Is -the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the grave uncertainty, disquiet and concern of the growers of green peas for canning and freezing in northern and north western Tasmania because of the threatened, intended unscrupulous breaking of a 4-year contract entered into last year between Gordon Edgells Pty Ltd, which is a subsidiary of Petersville Ltd, and the Executive of the- 
I address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Is it not a fact that the Treasury, with Government backing, requires the Postmaster-General's Department to pay interest to it on every dollar that is made available to it by the Government for capital works thus forcing the people to pay twice for postal services? Is this farce to continue? Is it a fact that the Postmaster-General proposes to increase again postal and telephone charges in order to meet what is an unnecessary and Government created deficit? 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice:  (1)Is it a fact that there is grave concern among the growers of green peas for canning and freezing in northern and north-western Tasmania because of the intended breaking of the 4 year contract signed last year between the processors, Gordon Edgell Pty Ltd, and the executive of the Canning Pea Growers' Association. 
If so, what action can he take to preserve the growers' legal contractural rights. 
One of the greatest hazards of fruit growers is hail. I suppose that the Tasmanian fruit growers suffer more from hail damage than do any other fruit growers in Australia. I want to put up a proposition tonight that might help towards a part solution of the problem. The rockets th'at are used to disperse hail from hail laden clouds are not manufactured in Australia. They are manufactured in Italy and they come from Genoa to Adelaide by ship. One thousand five hundred rockets in special storage compartments on these Italian ships cost the growers who want to use this method of preventing hail damage $15,000. The freight costs to Australia are $3,200 and $1,800 extra to come down to Hobart. I am not asking that we build the rockets in Australia. I do not know whether it is possible or whether we have the facilities to build hail rockets in this country. But the rocket is designed as a non-fragmentation shell and it is used in a standard anti-aircraft gun. 
Interestingly enough, we understand that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is employing artillery units in hail affected areas to fire these rockets. Russia is using artillery units on practice exercises to fire rockets from anti-aircraft guns into affected areas so helping to break up hail and greatly minimise the damage. In fact, statistics that have been given to me indicate that in the USSR a 7.2% average hail risk has dropped down to a 0.2% risk over 1 million acres of area affected by hail. If this can be done in one country it can be done in our country. I am sure we are all prepared to accept from other countries, even if we disagree with their political philosophy, anything in the fields of medicine or science of benefit to ourselves. We are internationalists when it comes to music, drama, literature, science, education and a host of other human fields of activity. I think we ought, to make some inquiries into the field of hail damage protection to see how this exercise is actually carried out. We might be able to use Australian Army units in these areas, although the timing of such assistance would, of course, be the trouble. I think if the rockets fit the standard anti-aircraft gun they could be used in the hail affected areas of this country, namely areas in New South Wales, South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania. 
If the Army agreed to undertake such work it would be serving a very real purpose. At the moment Army exercises are carried out in open areas and shells are being sent into no man's land. This is of no use whatever and is not serving any purpose. If the Army were used in this field I believe it might help to solve some of the serious problems of hail damage to crops. The Tamar valley in the north and the Huon valley in the south are the principle apple growing areas in Tasmania. Several growers have had their entire crops wiped out by hail in a matter of 5 or 10 minutes. This has reduced the size of their crops to about 20%. The Tasmanian Government is working out . hail insurance schemes by which loans can be made to orchardists in the Huon valley that were hit by hail recently. I will take this matter up further with the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  who is at a Cabinet meeting at the moment and could not come into the House to hear what I have had to say. But I think I should talk this over with the Minister and get him to inquire whether it is possible for the Army to co-operate, with the use of artillery, in preventinghail damage to crops. 
 I wish to refer to the controversial play 'Son of Man' which has been televised in all States by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I congratulate the ABC for having the courage to present such a controversial play on television. I believe that we learn from controversy. The play will be shown for a second time on Channel 3 in Launceston tonight. 1 saw it on this channel about a month ago. The play has been criticised in the Press, in letters to newspaper editors, and in this Parliament. It was shown originally on British Broadcasting Corporation television in April last year. It was produced for the BBC by Gareth Davies. The role of Christ was played by Colin Blakely. The play was written by Denis Potter. He is a self confessed agnostic but when asked whether he set out to ridicule Christ, his message and his work  Mr Potter  said that he had not. I have my doubts about that. One wonders why  Mr Potter  would write such a play and have it filmed for television if he did not have some ulterior motive. Yet I will try to be as fair as possible to him and his ideas this morning. 
If you have only read the script and not seen the play on television you will not have much criticism of it. The language used to proclaim the message in the gospel of Christ was telling and forceful. Taking the speaking of the story in words alone, the effect on the unbiased listener would be quite dramatic. There is no attempt to ridicule or belittle or condemn or distort Christianity as such in this film, in my opinion. The incidents of Christ's life as depicted become very real and very alive, and they certainly produce a very favourable reaction in most sections of the community. But coming to the film itself - this is where the trouble lies - the influence and the impact of individuals and personalities come into it. The producer had to choose someone to play the part of Christ, who is the central figure. He chose Colin Blakely, who gave an adequate portrayal within the limits imposed by an agnostic producer. That is the best I can say about Colin Blakely. He is a caricature of the Christ we have studied in the Gospels and have come to believe is the Christ. In Christ's day there were no photographers, no artists and no Press. No historical record of Christ exists in film or pictures. None of the Gospel writers bothered to describe Christ's height, size, weight, or vital statistics.  His  features are a mystery. Was He tall or short in stature? Was He thin or corpulent? What was  His  complexion like? How did He dress? These questions are not answered in the Gospels. We are forced to build the likeness of Christ and  His  stature from selfimagined patterns. If honourable members were artists and were each asked to draw Christ I am sure that everyone would approach the question differently and the result would fee extremely varied. Yet we would all be trying sincerely to interpret him as we think He was. But after making allowances for this I believe that Colin Blakely is not typical of Christ as He was. 
It is said that Denis Potter wanted a hippie Christ to appeal to the hippie generation. If so Blakely as Christ is undoubtedly a gross distortion and a gross caricature because Christ was no hippie. He was not loud mouthed, though He spoke with great conviction and intense sympathy and understanding and sometimes with frightening forcefulness. He would not be dirty, decrepit, unkempt, scruffy, or half naked as Potter's Christ was. Potter distorted and falsified authenticated history. His play lacked scriptural perspective because the Christ he portrayed was not the Christ of the Gospels, To present Christ as an unkempt, dirty, loud mouthed, ill tempered and confused rabble rouser is to distort the Gospels. Far from being confused Christ plainly knew why He was given His 3-year mission, why He was born when He was born, why He had to die or was going to die, and where He was going. He knew this from beginning to end. This is crystal clear in the Gospels. But Potter showed a different type of Christ. In the play he portrayed Christ as uncertain and in doubt even as to who He was. The Christ of the play - Potter's Christ - was born and built out of humanism and agnosticism. 
Jesus of Nazareth was poor in the worldly sense. He lived an open air life. Most of  His  teaching was in the countryside. He was under the blazing sun many days of the year. There was nothing soft about  His  life. He often did not have a bed to lie on. He must have walked hundreds of miles in the 3 years of  His  ministry in Palestine. He would therefore be strong limbed and gaunt rather than corpulent. He would be tough and wiry rather than flabby. He would be suntanned rather than pale after a life in extremely hot conditions and climate. He would be tidy rather than unkempt, intense rather than flippant. Colin Blakely was flippant. He gave a shallow, flippant portrayal of the most desperately serious mission ever undertaken by a citizen of this world. Many people shuddered as they listened to Colin Blakely and watched him play the sort of Christ Denis Potter wanted him to portray. I am not blaming Colin Blakely. He could be a good actor in any other role but he was told to give a certain interpretation which he did. He did it well from Potter's point of view but it was not the Christ of the Gospels he portrayed. 
Now let us have a look at the characterisation of Pilate as played by Robert Hardy, Caiaphas the High Priest as played by Bernard Hepton, and Judas and the other disciples. These portrayals were excellent and authentic. I congratulate the producer on the choice of characters and the way those characters portrayed Pilate, Caiaphas, Judas and so on. The suspense in the scenes of the Garden of Gethsemane and the trial by Pilate was superbly maintained. The crowd scenes in the countryside during Christ's teaching programme were authentic and well done. Please remember that this man was trying to concertina a 3- year ministry into a 1-hour film. It was a bit disjointed as a result. The clearing of the temple episode caught all the anger, disgust and frightening authority of Christ and was splendidly done. The Cross scene was dramatic and realistic but I have one query: Would the Christ who stood before Pilate at his trial silent, uncringing, and masterful, struggle as they nailed Him to the Cross? This would be supremely unlikely. At this point in the film the director over-dramatised and slipped from reality. One criticism of the film is that it was too violent. But I disagree. It is not generally known by people in this century that the times of Christ as well as several years before and many decades after  His  death were amongst the crudest and most violent in history. These times are described in Josephus' books, particularly 'The War of the Jews', which tells the terrible story of the fall of Jerusalem between 66 and 70 A.D. He lived between the years 38 A.D. and 100 A.D. or a little later, being born 5 years after the Crucifixion. He was the official historian of those times. Compared with the activities described by Josephus, many of Hitler's works were child's play. The Romans did not mess around when they decided to get rid of rabble rousers, trouble makers and so on. 
The final comment I make is that the film had to end somewhere in Christ's story, lt ended at the Cross. Had His story really ended at the Cross we may never have heard of Him. There would have been no Bible, no church and the thrilling story of the Acts of the Apostles planting Christianity across Europe would never have happened. But there was a Resurrection. The film will make people think. Most people can pick what is real from what is unreal. Most people will ignore the crudities and accept the dignified, authentic sections. Many people will appreciate the challenge in the message of the film while expressing great disappointment at the sort of Christ portrayed by Colin Blakely. 1 again congratulate the Australian Broadcasting Commission on its courage in showing the people of this country this controversial film. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What amount was contributed by the Commonwealth Government to flood mitigation schemes in the Hunter River area and other areas in New South Wales by way of loans or direct nonrepayable grants. 
What amount was expended on similar schemes (a) in Queensland and  (b)  Victoria. 
Did the Commonwealth contribute to the S3 million Launceston flood protection scheme; if so, what was the amount 
I address a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister made any progress in his negotiations with the container consortia for the inclusion of Tasmania in the consortia shipping port programme? Is he aware that Tasmania already is suffering serious loss of markets, irregular shipping and frustration because that State is in what could soon become a disastrous container shipping backwater? Is he also aware that the Minister for Trade and Industry and container consortia chieftains promised in 1968 and 1969 that Tasmania and north Queensland would share in this revolutionary shipping service with equalised freight all round the Australian continent? 
I welcome this legislation. 1 referred to the need for such legislation probably 10 or 12 years ago. I have always been interested in films and film making and I have always been very upset to think that Australia was so far behind the rest of the world in this field. I compliment the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for the way he presented the Opposition's case. I congratulate those who have already spoken on this measure, which the Opposition agrees with, except in respect of the matter dealt with in the small amendment we are going to move. It is always a pleasure when we can get a point of agreement in this House on measures of this nature.  I  think I should begin by reading a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  towards the end of his second reading speech. What was said by the Prime Minister best sums up the purpose of this legislation. The Prime Minister said: 
It expresses the Government's belief that we should devote ourselves not only to building great new factories and smelters, not only to wresting produce and minerals from the earth, not only to material standards - but also to involvement in, and development of, the arts. 
The human values we will thereby nurture, the satisfaction we will offer to individual development, the improvement of the quality of life are essential for any nation if it is to merit the description great. 
That is a really statesmanlike utterance and I hope that what is proposed starts off on that plane, because I for one would oppose the expenditure of Sim if we are going to produce films of the type that we sometimes see on the screen and others, of course, that have not hit the deck because of censorship. I want to say something about my views on censorship later. 
The attitude of the Prime Minister - it is also the attitude of the Opposition - is a laudable and excellent one. We hope that we will have men running the Corporation, and film producers making films, who will help to build this country's image in the world in the very best sense. After all, this has been the Cinderella of Australian industries. Our film making history is the story of struggling companies always starved for finance and often for talent. The national Government's long delay in coming into this field with the sinews of war - that is, finance - has enabled overseas film producers to export their films to Australia in their hundreds and thousands over the last 6 decades. In this period we have been completely inundated by foreign films. We have always had the talent and the ability in all fields of the arts in this country. Our film technicians, our actors and our actresses have been forced to go overseas to sell their talents to foreigners instead of using this talent in their own country. 
Our pioneer film companies, which operated on a shoestring, as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has said, and which have had to fight the cynicism of the Australian public, have performed miracles in the past with such films as The Kelly Gang', which was our first venture, and the 'The Overlanders', which had Chips Rafferty as the star. This was an outstanding film as was 'Forty Thousand Horsemen', which was produced by Charles Chauvel. This man was referred to by the honourable member for Kennedy as one of our very great early producers who suffered all the time from the malady of lack of finance. Australia has been invaded by foreign films each blatantly advertising the country of production, its artists, its people, its way of life and its language. Years of this brain washing have built in Australians a knowledge of foreign countries, their ways, their languages and their customs greater than their knowledge of their own country. Most Australian young people today could tell more about America than they could about their own country just because of what they have seen in films. This is not altogether a bad thing, but it gives a one-sided picture. We should be boosting our own country in our own films. The films that were mentioned by the honourable member for Kennedy, such as 'Bellbird', 'Homicide' and, of course, Division 4' - the latest advent in this field -and 'Showcase' have shown that we have the talent in Australia to produce documentaries or short continuing stories week by week. It is time that we gave a publicity boost to this beautiful land of ours with its vastness, its grandeur, its beauty, its colour, its vigour, its varieties, its history, its customs, its humour, its uniqueness, its music, its adventure, its rawness, its beautiful women and its sports-minded men. Our women are the most beautiful in the world; 1 married one of them. 
-I cannot tell you that now. One important factor has been the advent of television in film making, producing and viewing. Its impact on the world has been fantastic. The movie film has now invaded thousands of Australian homes night by night and afternoon by afternoon. We do not need to go to the picture theatres - most are closed down anyway - or to the drive-ins. The moving, dramatic outside world itself marches into our lounge rooms every night. While in our homes we can see men walking on the moon at the actual time that it is happening through the miracle of television. We see in our own homes movies that we had never heard of. We see some that we wish we had never heard of because the standard is so low. While on the matter of standards and the past I hope that our womenfolk keep on looking at those ancient films, those made 10 or 20 years ago, and continue to wear mini skirts. If ever there is a hideous sight it is the frocks, the maxis, of 10 to 15 years ago. I think all honourable members will agree with me on that point. 
Week by week we see news documentaries, travelogues and educational films in our homes. Television has opened up  a  whole new world of opportunity for script writers, film technicians, actors and actresses, cameramen, producers, directors, musicians and composers. This Sim loan for film production in Australia will give producers a chance to employ these people in our own country and to make full length films and documentaries as well. I understand that a television documentary or film lasting 1 hour costs ยง60,000. This sum is recovered 10 times over when it is circulated round the world to the various television stations. This shows what can be done when talents are married to finance, equipment, geographical background and colour. 
Television can do a lot for us through the activities of this proposed Film Development Corporation. I hope that television documentaries become a very important part of Australia's film development in the next few years as a result of the establishment of this Corporation. There is tremendous scope for quality stories with historical and geographical content and with dinkum Aussies playing the leading and secondary roles. We have to counter the Americanisation of Australia through the movie films. This is where Australian producers can do so much. Australian people are exportable through the medium of films. Our country can be exportable. This is a magnificent country and we have magnificent people. Why should we have to watch American films, or French films or films from other countries all the time and be so starved of our own? We have proved that we have the talent here because many of our actors and actresses have made headlines overseas. 
I suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that when we are thinking of someone to run this Corporation that, as the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  so eloquently said, we need someone with experience, such as a producer or an actor. Why not coax back from overseas, from England or America, some of the leading Australian actors and actresses who already have made headlines in reports on our films in foreign countries? Why not choose one of these men, offer a top salary and invite him back to become the leading personality in this Corporation? This would be a challenge to him. It would be a pioneering effort for him. By doing this we would be bringing talent back to where we need it and establishing it in charge of this Corporation. 
The distribution of our films is another task for the Corporation. The Prime Minister referred also to this matter when he said: 
It may also, subject to ministerial approval, participate in the formation of a company for the distribution of Australian films. 
This is a tremendously important aspect of the scheme. What is the good of producing films if we cannot distribute them profitably in other countries or to the Australian television circuit? We need skill in this field also. We need persons of ability to sell Australia and Australian films by distributing local works. I think that a distribution section should be formed early in the piece and should be a very important part of the work of the Corporation. It should distribute and market our films in Asia, Europe, England, the Pacific countries, and of course, America. Naturally competition will be greatest in America. 1 agree with the honourable member for Franklin that we have to fill out the image of Australia beyond that of koala bears, kangaroos and stock whips. 
Quality of film production is absolutely vital and the Prime Minister referred also to this point. He said: 
The Corporation will seek to encourage the production and distribution of Australian films of high quality. 
He referred to high technical quality, talent and production quality and stated that he wants the films to be commercially successful. This is true; the films have to be box office successes. The Prime Minister said that excellence in production, camera work and technical presentation were necessary in order to justify the description 'high quality'. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The fund is intended for investment in films. It is not intended as a giveaway project. 
He wants the funds to earn money so that the profits can be reinvested in the industry. 1 think we will have to spend a lot more than $lm to get this project satisfactorily off the  ground, lt  may require an annual grant or loan for several years until it is properly established. However we will have to lift the standard of film production generally. The standard at the present time is getting to the lowest ebb in its history. Despite all the modern techniques, modern acting methods and modern scientific knowledge the general standard of film produc tion has reached its lowest ebb. It will go further down the drain if we do not stop it. We should stand up and fight this process. I intend to fight it as long as I am able to do so. I am a censorship man, am proud of it, and I intend to stay that way. I shall refer in no uncertain terms to censorship in a few moments. 
Surely we can lift films from the gutter and the cesspool into which they are descending. Censors are overworked at the present time in having to cut out this tripe and filth from films. Why do we cater for the lowest common denominator instead of the highest in the production of films which are finding their way into the homes of thousands of our people, into our schools and into our entertainment areas? The best films of all time, those which attracted the biggest box office return, were devoid of depravity, uncouth sex and crudity. 1 will name just a few of the modern ones. 'The King and I' was a remarkable film and starred Yul Brynner. 'Ben Hur' was a film we will remember all our lives. The Great Escape' and 'The Dam Busters' were two other magnificent productions. One could see the 'Sound of Music' many times. 1 would like to include in this category all Disney films. All of them are high quality films; all of them are decent. Disney made the greatest contribution of any producer and never produced a second grade film in his life.  His  films can be shown to anybody at any time. 'Doctor Zhivago' was another great modern film. Another two are 'Where Eagles Dare' and Born Free'. 1 have named just a few of the great films which did not depend on depravity for their sales. 
Before concluding I want to say a few things about censorship. Nearly everybody runs for cover when this subject is raised. People are saying that the censorship board should be wiped. People say. that censorship should be cut out; that we should let in everything that is ugly and sordid. 1 want to say a few words about censorship because it is tied in with the subject of films. If we are to produce films then they should be films which can be kept away from the censors. lt is a waste of time and money to produce films from which a whole heap of film will have to be cut because it is pure depravity. If we start with that type of film we will waste a lot of money. Having read reports from people who viewed the segments of film cut by the censors which were shown here in Canberra last Monday night,I am 100% in favour of continuing censorship and maintaining standards. I shall quote a few remarks made by one of the pressmen - I will not say who he is, but he will know when he hears me reading his comments - about the type of film that has been censored. He said: 
We saw George Peppard fighting for his life with the spike of a belt buckle and the jagged neck of a broken bottle against a mob of homosexuals intent on beating him to a pulp. 
We saw George Peppard and Slim Pickens fighting to the finish with chains, branding irons and an assortment of other handy farmyard weapons. 
We saw a bloody scene from an Indian film in which a remarkably agile one-legged victim did his desperate best to defend himself from a much larger two-legged attacker. 
And so on. 
It proved little to me. 
Then he went on further and said: 
It is the censorship of scenes or whole films because of their sex content which causes the controversy, and that is really what we were there to study. We were not disappointed. For example, there were four on-screen rapes. 1 admit one of them shocked me, but only because the rapist was Frankenstein, whom I had always associated with clean family monsters. 
There were two lesbian love scenes - without doubt the most powerful and moving items on the programme. 
One, from the French film 'Therese and Isabelle', was tender and beautiful. The other, from 'The Killing of Sister George', intense and passionate. 
One of the items, from the Swedish version of 'Fanny Hill' showing the teen-age heroine watching a couple making love on closed circuit television in a brothel would have to go if there is to be any censorship at all. 
He admitted that. The article continues: 
But in my view there is no reason why adults should be prevented from seeing most of last night's programme. 
A case in point was a rape scene from the 
Italian film Two Women', which had none of the clinical explicitness of some of the other clips. 
Sophia Loren's portrayal of the terror and agony of the victim was superb cinema. 
My overall impression from the evening was that film censorship in Australia is, at the very least, inconsistent. No pattern emerged of why some things offend the censor and others do not. 
What the evening did show, quite vividly, I think, was the urgent need for an X or R certificate system of film classification in Australia- 
Listen to this part -  under which the onus would be on the exhibitor to refuse entrance to people under a prescribed age. 
Have honourable members ever heard a more naive statement or suggestion than that in their lives? How can persons under 18 years of age be left out? There is a sample of what the viewers saw the other night of segments cut out from films. I am amazed at the self righteousness of those invited to that cinema who are giving the impression that they are incorruptible, unmovable, beyond temptation, indeed ivory tower dwellers. It made me sick to read these apologists for unrestricted screenings of filth and corruption. Those who watch and who advocate the burial of censorship of films and books because they are incorruptible themselves are prepared to poison, distort, corrupt, twist and destroy the minds and characters of millions of people who are not incorruptible - people who are at the most impressionable age of life. Those self righteous people want fornication, horrifying violence, sexual intercourse, lesbianism and homosexuality to be screened for everybody's viewing and legalised on the screen for all over 18 years of age. God forbid. 
What sort of race will emerge if people are fed for life on this type of stuff? This is what worries me. All of us who are legislators in this place ought to think about that. This is not a laughing matter. Pressure is being put on the Government to wipe out the Censorship Board and to let all this material come into Australia unrestrictedly and onto our screens, in the forlorn hope that no-one under 18 years of age will see it. To lift censorship entirely is to lift depravity and corruption to the same level as decency, and to lift ugliness to the same status as beauty. It will give the green light - this is what, to my mind, is serious - to every morally deformed, spiritually bankrupt producer to include more depravity and violence in his movie films. This is what would happen, until morals sank to a much lower level than they are at the present time. 
The cry that this filth is only for adults and that persons under 18 years of age would not be permitted to view such things is as weak as water and as naive as the little children themselves. Our censorship people do their job and cut this sort of thing out of films that are imported. They mark some For Adults Only', but how can children and teenagers be controlled when no longer do they go to the theatre but millions of them watch films on the television screens in the freedom of their own homes? Such films, if allowed, would be shown on television within a year or two or even within a few months. 
Parents are being forced to send their children and teenagers off to bed. The pressure on parents is terrific. It is unfair to subject them to this type of thing when Bringing up children is tought enough today without this kind of film to make it harder. The only way to keep children's minds away from such depravity is not to show depravity in films. It is as simple as that. The greatest films of all time, as 1 have said, contained no sexual depravity at all. They were outstandingly free from the sort of filth that was shown a few nights ago to a selected group in the Parliament by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp). 
Were we? Some of us were not back in time. Honourable members know what is done with sewage, lt goes deep underground. I put these films at the same level. We are crying out about the pollution of cities, harbours and beaches, and are making a great outcry for action. But the apologists for the ending of censorship condone the pollution of man's mind, and that is far more serious than the pollution of a few cities. They do this without any disapproval at all. I honestly cannot understand their attitude or inconsistency. I realise that censorship, in one sense, is the denial of freedom. But 1 ask: Freedom for whom? fs it freedom to the producers who make these quick, cheap films which have such a devastating effect on the impressionable people who view them? It may be all right for adults. They can probably take it without any effect. I am thinking about the thousands of people who are not yet adults. The censors have a responsibility here to keep these corrupting films out of Australia or from being produced in Australia. 
I have found nothing yet to change me from being a censorship man. I do not make any apology for it. I would still feel that way until we could have films produced around the world and in this country that were free from such depravity beyond the need for censorship. It is argued that that is the way to sell films. I have proved to honourable members this afternoon that the best films that were ever produced were produced without that sort of thing, and they have brought in millions and millions of dollars. 
I appreciate very much what the Government has done in this new field of enterprise. One honourable member chided us by saying that we might nationalise this industry if we became the government. We would not decide on that at this moment, but if the industry failed even with Government help and had to be rescued entirely perhaps by a government taking it  over,  nationalisation may have to be the ultimate solution. Let us give private enterprise in co-operation with Government a chance to make this work. I feel that with all the talents, all the energies and all the initiative private enterprise has in this field today, coupled with financial assistance, we can make a success of the nlm industry in Australia. It is absolutely essential to do so and on the highest possible level we can put it, because in the end the type of films which were seen the other night here and which were censored so heavily would ultimately kill the industry that produced them. We cannot continue feeding on films of that type forever. There conies a time when we will probably cry out in horror against them. So let this Corporation help to lift the standard of film making in this country and perhaps give a lead to the whole world. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What is the current rate of import tariff levied by the United States on Australian wool. 
Is he able to say whether the United States imposes import restrictions on Japanese textiles made from Australian wool. 
What was the value of trade both ways between Australia and America and between Australia and Japan during the years 1968 and 1969. 
What tariffs or import restrictions applied in both trading fields. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of the gross national product was represented by the output of rural industries in each of the years 1929, 1939, 1949, 1959 and 1969. 
What percentage of Australia's export income came from rural exports in each of those years. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that fishing vessels of 2 foreign nations have been openly operating within the Tasmanian coastal waters during recent weeks? Is the Commonwealth in a position to do more than talk about these problems? Is it able to allocate one or more patrol vessels to keep Tasmanian coastal waters clear of marauding foreign fishing vessels? 
We are now making rapid progress in our consideration of this Bill. I strongly support the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who led for the Opposition and most of the remarks of other members who have dairy farms in their electorate and who are concerned not only about the future of those farms but of the industry as a whole, of which those farms are a vital part, lt is not necessary to traverse all the facets of this legislation that have been mentioned by other speakers. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  gave a detailed speech in introducing the legislation and it was of great interest to those of us who have watched the progress of this scheme since it was first mooted back in 1 966. The least we can say about the Minister is that he has shown great persistency. 
On 1st April 1969 he made a statement in which he replied to the  Premier  of New South Wales who, along with other State Premiers, suggested that the Commonwealth should make money available to the States as a grant and not as a half grant and a half interest bearing loan as the Commonwealth has insisted and which the Stales involved have now agreed upon. The Minister, forthright as he often is, said that the suggestion was over the odds. He said that the $ 12.5m loan to the States would bear interest at long term bond rates and would be repayable over 25 years. Then he said; 
If I cannot get a collective decision from the Stales then I will negotiate with individual States. 
That was the first revolutionary statement he made during the 3 years of long, drawn out negotiations that he had with the Slates. We can sympathise with him in battling against the several States concerned with marginal dairy farms. We imagined from the beginning that this would be a collective scheme and that unless all States came into it it would not operate. When the Minister made that statement just over 12 months ago he indicated that the scheme was not going to be a collective scheme only; it would be a scheme dealing with each State annually as it came into the scheme. Western Australia is the initial State in the scheme. I agree that the Minister had to take this firm attitude. In our federal system it is difficult to get the States to agree on anything except that they should get more money from the Commonwealth. Since that time Tasmania, after a long period of indemon by both the Labor Government and the present Liberal Government, has decided at last to come into the scheme. 
On 26th May,  Mr Beattie,  the Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania, said that Tasmania would negotiate with the Federal Government for a scheme similar to that agreed to by Western Australia. He said that Tasmania would have preferred to act as the agent of the Commonwealth in such a scheme, but this has not been agreed upon. He mentioned 3 aspects of the scheme which concerned the States: First was the possibility that participation might involve the States in financial loss. This suggestion has now been answered by the Minister for Primary Industry who has said that in all reasonable cases the Commonwealth would stand any losses suffered by the States. The second aspect was the requirement that property be given to applicants for land who were prepared to undertake diversification. The third aspect was to restrict the participation in the scheme to dairy farmers who derived more than half their income from milk or cream used in manufacture. Then he went on to say that the Commonwealth has now agreed to amend the proposal to cover losses and diversification. So the objections of the Tasmanian Liberal Government seem largely to have been overcome. 
Low income producers within the fluid milk section of the industry will be eligible to participate in the scheme and will be subject to exactly the same test of eligibility as farmers in the manufacturing sector. This was the final decision which helped to bring Tasmania into the scheme. There is no discrimination between the low income earner in the fluid milk sector and the low income earner in the manufacturing sector. 1 do not expect that there will be very many small fluid milk producers who will find themselves in need of assistance or wanting to leave the industry as at present they are in a very strong position throughout Australia. 
The Minister for Primary Industry pointed out in his second reading speech that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey showed that the average Australian net income in the manufacturing sector was $2,001 and that in the whole milk sector it was just on $3,000. So the economic strength of the whole milk sector is far and above that of the boys who are battling along in the manufacturing sector selling butterfat for cheese and the like. I should like to refer also to one or two other points in the scheme. Any scheme which greatly increased production would at this stage cause more harm to the industry in the long term than the financial disability of a minimal number of dairymen. This is my main worry about the scheme. It could bring about increased production for the simple reason that when a small farmer who is not producing the required amount of butterfat wants to leave the industry voluntarily and submits his case to the State authority the farm is bought by the authority and sold to a neighbouring dairy farmer. There is nothing to stop the neighbour increasing production on the farm he has bought. He could continue to produce milk on the property and increase the cow population on that farm. The economic and efficient farmer could increase production on the farm which formerly belonged to the uneconomic farmer. 
It is stipulated, of course, that if a beef farmer or a sheep farmer buys one of these marginal dairy farms he must go on producing beef and sheep on it; he cannot turn it into a dairy farm. This is a good provision and in this sense production would not be increased overall with that restriction. On the other hand, a dairy farmer buying a dairy farm alongside his could increase the overall production of butter which at the present time is so overproduced in the world that we have 350,000 tons of it in store in the European Economic Community countries. It is ironical and disastrous that the EEC countries are at the moment disposing of large quantities of this surplus butter to our new Asian markets, some of them built up through hard work by Australia. They are selling butter to these new Asian markets at 18c per lb; dumping it in effect. They are carrying it all the way from Europe and dumping it. lt is our butter probably that was sent to Europe and now they are bringing it back to Asia and selling it for the ridiculous figure of 18c per lb. 
Another point about the 34c per lb guaranteed by the Australian Government is that this is a minimum price and is guaranteed for 215.000 tons a year of which Tasmania's share is 14,500 tons. The quota system has been suggested and approved by several dairy organisations already, including one or two in Tasmania. A recent suggestion has been made to try to limit production or control production within this overproduced industry. There are a few other things which have to be done before this industry can be kept at a stable production level. I feel that registration of dairy farmers should become a policy of State governments, because they control it within the States, so that all farms producing milk for butter and cheese are registered as such. Nobody other than those who are registered as dairymen would be allowed to enter the industry. We. register everything else. Every other producer and every other person in the country is registered within his field of operations. But farmers are not and anybody can come in at any time and suddenly decide to grow wheat or barley or any other of the cereal crops. He may even become a dairyman. There is nothing in the world to stop him. The position in the banana industry and the hop industry is much the same. 
There are quite a lot of problems in the dairy industry but this is not the time or place to discuss them because this is essentially a scheme to bring some sort of stability into the unstable section of the dairy industry. There is a final point that I want to make. A lot of responsibility is thrown on the States in this scheme and I feel- 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question. In view of the disastrous collapse of our canned pea export market in the United Kingdom and the consequent pile-up of canned peas in Australia, will the Government investigate the possibility of extending devaluation payments to the Australian canned pea industry, the depressed state of which is due largely to the devaluation of sterling? This is an important matter to Australian growers, particularly those in Tasmania, where 65% of our peas are grown. 
by leave- This is a matter of vital importance to Tasmania. It is always pleasing to be able to thank the Government for having done something constructive and helpful. On behalf of Tasmanian potato growers - there are a few left - I thank the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for bringing down anti-dumping regulations to slow down the importation of processed potatoes. The countries that have been engaging in dumping are Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, and our old friend the United States of America, which gives us such a rough spin with our exports of wool by imposing a duty of 25%, thus making it virtually impossible for us to export wool to that country. 
I would stress that the potato industry is in a depressed state. I know that a lot of our rural industries are in this condition, but the potato industry is particularly depressed, especially in Tasmania. When an industry is facing disastrously low prices for its product the dumping of imported products could be the straw that breaks the camel's back. Lifting tariffs on imported processed potatoes could reduce imports of potato products which are competing with local products and thus help the industry in some way. I congratulate local processors for the quality of their product. It is unfair that they should be pushed further into depression by the importation of overseas potato products. The industry in Tasmania has been in a state of gradual decline because of the difficulty in getting economic prices for its product, mainly on the Sydney market. Growers have been greatly disadvantaged by increasing freight rates. There is now no profit in the growing of potatoes in Tasmania. Growers are not always receiving even the cost of production. They continue to plant potatoes only because potatoes are not their main source of income. They are mixed farmers. Because of this they can carry losses on potatoes. Many of them work on the principle that they will plant 10 acres of potatoes a year irrespective of whether they get a good price or a low price. They feel that over a period of 5 years the average price obtained will repay their efforts. This is how they are carrying on with potato growing now. 
The Tasmanian Labor Party Rural Committee, of which I am secretary - it is the only one of its kind in the Commonwealth, with 20 active farmers on it - meets every 2 months as a research committee. We are in the process of working out a stabilisation plan for the potato industry not only ;n Tasmania but in Australia. We feel that the industry has to be stabilised, underwritten and underpinned by the Commonwealth if it is to survive as a viable industry. As potatoes are often a cash crop for farmers it is important that prices keep at least ahead of costs. I support what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  so graciously said about Tasmanian growers. On behalf of Tasmanian potato growers and the Tasmanian Potato Marketing Board I again thank the Minister and the Government for the bringing down of the regulations to reduce dumping of processed potatoes. 

 Mr ALLAN FRASER (EdenMonaro)by leave - This matter is of very great concern to the electorate of Eden-Monaro and particularly to potato growers in the Crookwell d strict. The plight of potato growers in that area is parlous. For many of them it has not been possible even to attempt to market their crop. They have been forced simply to dig it in. For a long time I have striven to obtain some effective action against the dump ng of imported potatoes, particularly processed potatoes. I am glad that the Government is at last acting in this direction. I hope that its efforts will be effective in protecting potato growers. 
It might be a good idea to get a few facts straight as to what has happened in the last few minutes. I remind the House that the Whips are working all day long on the order of speakers in a debate, the length of debate, who should speak in a debate and what shall happen next. I say without hesitation that the gagging of the debate on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill not only surprised me but also surprised the Government Whip. We had arranged our programme for the day. I have the list of speakers which shows that there were to have been, 3 more speakers, namely, the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and possibly the honourable member for. Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Right from the beginning of the afternoon we knew that this was to be the order of speaking in the debate. However, the Government showed on its list only 4 Opposition speakers and 3 Government speakers, including the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay). 
Even though we opposed the extension of the sitting past 11 o'clock tonight, we were prepared to go on to the end of the second reading, even if it took till half past 1 this morning to reach this stage. This is how the 2 Whips planned the night. They were under instructions that this debate was to go to the end of the second reading stage, into the Committee stage and then be adjourned. This is what we were told. How can the Whips run a Parliament if the agreement between the 2 sides is destroyed as suddenly as it was tonight at 11.40. What has the Government gained tonight by cutting this debate off? 
It has gained nothing. In the process it has set up a wall of retaliation from this side of the House. The Government wants to try to finish the session this week. It is not the Opposition's job to facilitate the Government finishing in any particular time. I have been the Opposition Whip for 15 years, and the Opposition in that time has never tried deliberately to facilitate the end of a session. I would not remove members from the speaking list just to try to finish the session this week. I would ask members to try to cut their speeches short. I would be prepared to do that, but it is the Government's job to finish a session when it wants to finish it. If it wants to finish this session on Friday it has the gag and the guillotine at its disposal. They are its 2 weapons. If it wants to finish by then, it can, but it cannot expect the Opposition to co-operate by deliberately pulling out speakers so that the 
House can rise this week. I do not intend to fall for that or be a party to it. Fair is fair. 
We have a tremendous programme here. We have been told nothing. I as Opposition Whip have been trying to find out what items on the notice paper are to be stood over to the Budget session, and for the life of me I can not find out. I do not think the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  knows himself which of these items are to be put off. How can he possibly say we will finish this week if he does not know now what items are to be debated? If we are to debate the programme on the notice paper we will be debating until the end of next week. We could not possibly physically finish the programme that is set out in the notice paper. The Government has to make up its mind what it will give us to debate and what it will not give us to debate. We will debate what it gives to us. lt has a right to control this Parliament. It is the Government. It can say what is coming down at any time, and we will co-operate to that extent. We cannot put items on the business sheet of our own accord except for notices of motion and matters of public importance. lt is up to the Government to decide what business we do, and I want this Government to tell us what it intends to do this week so that we will know where we stand. Tonight it broke a definite agreement between the 2 Whips, as far as I am concerned. Honourable members who are on my list to speak were denied an opportunity to speak. They were prepared to sit on and shorten their speeches. We were prepared to go on till 1.30 to finish this debate, to go into the Committee stage, adjourn and then go home. What has the Government achieved tonight? It has upset an Opposition that has been trying to co-operate up to the limit without repudiating its position as a fighting Opposition - and that is what we are. 
Then tell me why fewer Japanese cars came into Australia after the Government increased the tariff on them. Tell me what this Government did to limit the number of motor cars coming in from Japan. If what it imposed was not a tariff it was still a duty of some kind. The honourable member can call it what he likes. The Australian car manufacturers agreed to what the Government did and went on increasing their production. That point too has to be borne in mind. The growers I have recently talked to in the wool growing districts of Victoria and in my own State blame the slide in wool prices on this event. The Japanese would be prepared to pay more for our wool now but they say: 'Why should we pay more when we can get it at a lower price?' 
There is no doubt that some collusion has taken place between buyers. Several years ago, after a minute examination of the reports of 2 royal commissions that inquired into pies, I made a speech and detailed the facts of the collusion that had taken place. I think  Mr Justice  Cook was the  chairman  of one of the royal commissions. He estimated how much the growers were losing as a result of pie buying. It is no use saying that this sort of buying is not going on. In many abattoirs one or two butchers are buying for half a dozen or even a dozen butchers. Competition has been gradually stifled and the price that the grower receives has been kept down. 
This is happening on a bigger scale, with far more devastating effect, with wool buying because the Japanese are buying in the same way as the Italians and the British are buying. We are hoping that the scheme we have put forward tonight will reduce this wretched collusive buying that is depressing the price which the wool grower receives for his product. Why should a few men benefit at the expense of thousands? There are approximately 100,000 wool growers in Australia. Why should their livelihood be threatened and depressed because a handful of moguls who are called buyers are deliberately agreeing to keep prices down. This makes an absolute farce of auctions. 
The time will come when Australia will have for wool a similar stabilisation scheme to that which it has for wheat. The system of selling wool will have to be changed to save the growers from being forced off their land. I have figures from the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  indicating, in one instance, the gradual decline of our rural exports when compared with the gross national product and indicating, in another instance, tariffs and import restrictions on wool and woollen products exported to the United States, and imports and exports to the United States and Japan. I shall inform the House of what these figures reveal. Early in May, I asked the Minister for Primary Industry: 
What percentage of the gross national product was represented by the output of rural Industries in each of the years 1929, 1939, 1949, 1959 and 1969? 
The answer to the question, in summary, was that in 1928-29 rural industry production, as a percentage of the gross national product, was 21.4%. In the 40 years to 1969 that percentage dropped to 9.3%. I emphasise this. In the space of 40 years rural production as a proportion of the gross national product, fell from 21.4% to the disastrous level of 9.3% last year. The second question I asked was: 
What percentage of Australia's export income came from rural exports in each of those years? 
The Minister's reply was that in 1928-29 exports of rural origin represented 90% of total exports. That was a fantastic figure. In the 40 years to last year that percentage dropped to 58%. Those 2 sets of figures indicate what is going on in our rural industries in respect of total exports as a percentage of the gross national product. The second series of questions I asked were these: 
What is the current rate of import tariff levied by the United States on Australian wool? 
The figures are startling. They indicate that today America imposes a duty of 37c per lb on Australian wool. That puts the barrier so high that we cannot get the wool over it, around it or under it. Honourable members opposite will be pleased to know that America is importing some wool. It imported $40m worth last year. I asked the Minister if he was able to say whether the United States imposed import restrictions on Japanese textiles made from Australian wool. His answer was: 
The United Slates imposes no discriminatory import restrictions on Japanese textiles made from Australian wool. 
The third question was: 
What was the value of trade both ways between Australia and America and between Australia and Japan during the years 1968 and 1969? 
The answer includes some fantastic figures in which I think the House will be interested. The Minister replied that Australia's total exports to America last year totalled $480m. Greasy wool made up $35m of that total and other wools $l4m. Exports to Japan totalled $822m. Our total imports amounted to $883m. That is 2 to 1 against Australia as far as America is concerned. With Japan it ;s exactly the reverse, with $822m in exports to Japan and $4 14m in imports from Japan in 1969. In view of the way we are being treated by the United States, not only with wool but also with mutton and the barriers they have put up against other commodities, some farmers have written to me and said: 'Why does the Australian Government not boost its trade with the countries that treat us well?' One man who is a Liberal voter named China, the USSR and Japan. He said these were the countries without tariff barriers on our products and he suggested we should boost our trade to these countries when America was prepared to put up these high walls against us. Other honourable members have mentioned the Bill in detail; I do not intend to do that. I think it is a step in the right direction. We give it our wholehearted support and hope the programme it sponsors and the changes it undertakes will be of ultimate benefit to our great wool industry which nets for us $800m a year in export income. 
Any legislation to help rural industries brought down at a time of crisis within those industries must receive the earnest consideration of all members of the Parliament, including the Opposition. Members of the Opposition, in their thinking, have given the wool industry the greatest doing over it has ever had. A tremendous amount of work has been put in by our Party rural committee and economic committee as well as by individual members. We certainly appreciate what is being tried in this Bill, firstly, to relieve the industry of the cost of financing research and promotion in its battle to combat synthetic fibres and, secondly, to help the industry make savings in the cost of wool handling through integrated wool selling complexes or wool selling centres. 
On the matter of quality of wool, which the handling section is devised to improve, we cannot overstress the importance of quality in wool products. 1 suppose that of all primary products there has been less concentration on quality in wool than on any other form of production for the simple reason that we have always been able to sell our wool clip. This is the only industry that is not over-produced. lt may seem amazing that legislation must be brought down to help stabilise an industry the entire production of which is sold on local and world markets, yet this is the naked fact in respect of the industry because the price being received, as has been said, is the lowest probably sines the depression years in actual percentage value. That we have been able to sell all of our wool production is no reason why the growers should do nothing more in respect of quality. Overseas prices have taken a tailspin, apparently because the quality of our export wool has been neglected. If honourable members talk to Japanese buyers they will realise how truthful is that statement. They have become very selective in buying our wool, and unless we can put on the market an almost perfect product free of dust, burrs and the other ingredients that get into wool wc will be in real trouble getting rid of it. We must not be lulled into a sense of false security. Just because we are selling all of our wool at the present does not mean necessarily that we will be doing thai for  the next 12 months, 2 years or 3 years. This measure is to be commended because it is an endeavour to assist in three or tour very important ways. 
I now turn to the testing of wool. The Minister in his second reading speech said that we were to try to make savings in the handling of wool. He went on to say: 
Studies conducted by the Australian Wool Board show that very significant cost reductions are possible in the handling and processing of wool by the establishment, on a national scale, of integrated wool selling complexes. 
Later the Minister said: 
I think it can be said that all sections of the wool trade agree that the establishment of well laid out wool complexes incorporating modern mechanised handling equipment for common use by wool selling brokers for the speedy movement of wool into store, within store and out of store to the ship can introduce great efficiency into the wool selling and handling procedure. Further, such complexes could also provide a vehicle for the early introduction of other beneficial innovations such as the pre-sale sampling and testing of wool, that is, objective measurement, and the streamlining of bulk-classing operations. 
I want to say something in detail about presale sampling, testing and objective measurement. I refer to an article on objective measurement written by  Mr H.  M. McKenzie,  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board's policy committee.  Mr McKenzie  was careful to point out in the article that unless this scheme when introduced was carried through with the utmost care it could have later disastrous effects on the industry. The Launceston 'Examiner' of 10th June carried the following item: 

 Mr McKenzie said speakers at woolgrower meetings and seminars had stressed the need for any change in the present wool marketing system to include pre-sale objective measurement. 
The Labor Party has put forward tonight its plan for the handling and marketing of the Australian wool clip in the future. That must be a prerequisite of this marketing idea. The report goes on to state: 
I am confident that scientific research and development being done will lead to pre-sale objective measurement on behalf of growers, but premature introduction of this as a condition of sale without sound or sufficient tested methods, could be disastrous. 
Any failure could result in international acceptance of sale by objective measurement being delayed for many years'. 
To get this, it was essential that the validity of all measurement techniques receive international acceptance. 
He said that in any change in marketing, it was necessary to examine the costs of the existing method and estimate the savings or additional costs resulting from change. 
The most desirable method of handling wellclassed wools for sale was believed to be: Weigh on arrival in store, core test, appraise or sample, dump and stack awaiting auction and shipment. 
With this method, wool would be handled only once in and once out of store. 
However, to get sale by this method, it would be necessary to: 
Be able to guarantee within acceptable limits the accuracy of the scientific measurements and secure international acceptance of the methods used. 
Develop methods for which the cost of these measurements justified their commercial acceptance. 
Ensure that the purchasers were satisfied with an independent appraisal or the production of a representative wool sample of sufficient size to permit subjective or visual assessment of the non-measurable qualities such as character, strength, soundness, softness, etc. Ensure that the handling problems, including the stacking of dumped bales, were satisfactorily resolved. 
With the assistance of scientific research and experimentation eliminate completely or reduce to a minimum the number of qualities requiring visual assessment. 
The two factors vital to the introduction of presale objective measurement are that it would permit the marketing of the clip at reduced costs and that the objective measurement certificate and appraisements (or samples) would be reliable, accurate and comprehensive enough for buyers to assess the value of the wool for the particular end use for which it was being bought.'  Mr McKenzie  said. 
Two other areas in which objective measurement offers prospect of direct or indirect benefit to woolgrowers are: 
Reduction in the claims made on wool buyers by their principals, arising from alleged shortfall in wool performance specifications; and research by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics saying that objective measurement can reduce wool manufacturing costs. 
Experiments with pre-sale sampling, pre-sale testing and selling by sample are being investigated. 
However, 1 must stress that we are striving to achieve commercial acceptability rather than academic perfection,'  Mr McKenzie  said. 
He said, 'I urge the Government and the wool industry to see that changes in wool marketing involving objective measurement are not adopted until it is clear that their introduction will produce both short and long term net benefits to the woolgrowers.' 
He said the wool characteristics were being measured scientifically for commercial purposes. 
Measurement of yield in 'shipping lots' is widely practised and the methods of tests are laid down in specifications which have international acceptance. 
In general the accuracies of testing appears to be good. 
Vegetable matter is also measured. 
The only method of measuring greasy wool fineness, for which an international standard exists, is based on the use of a microscope. 

 Mr McKenzie points out various methods of testing. He said that today's costs and handling charges based on post-sale testing operations were as follows: 
 Yield: $1 per bale for sampling, plus $9 to $10 a lot for a certificate. 
Fibre diameter: Airflow method, $4 a lot; microscopic method, $11.50 a lot. (If fibre diameter measurements were done in conjunction with yield, there was no additional charge of sampling). 
The article continues: 
It is important to realise that the introduction of pre-sale sampling and testing could result in a substantial reduction in these charges,' he added. 
I have quoted most of what he said because it relates to a vital part of the Bill which is before us. This system must not be rushed into headlong. It will have to be tested, experimented with, and assessed perfectly accurately so that it can become an international standard accepted by buyers from the countries which purchase our wool. 
Another point I mention is promotion. Is too much being spent on promoting only fine wool and so limiting the impact of Australian wool in manufacturing? Some criticism has been levelled against the amount spent on promotion by the Australian Wool Board. It has been said we have over-stressed the fine wool qualities and have not sufficiently promoted our other wool. There is some truth in this. I think promotion should include all types of wool so that we can tell the world and show the world that we can do a lot with wools other than fine wools in clothing manufacture and the like. The low prices that now exist in the industry - they are possibly15c a lb less than they were at this time last year - had a beginning. A very significant event took place a couple of years ago. It might have been less than 2 years ago. I can remember the scream that came from our motor car industry that too many Japanese cars were coming into Australia and that these imports must be stabilised - not increased. The 2 giant companies which manufacture Ford and Holden motor cars and earn a profit of about $30m a year between them screamed to this 
Government to do something about the tariff on Japanese motor cars. The Government lifted the wall of tariffs against these cars. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
This decision to postpone Order of the Day No. 1, the Grievance Day debate, has come as a complete surprise to me, as the Opposition Whip, and also as far as 1 know to the Government Whip. We tried to obtain some clarity on this matter yesterday and also in the early hours of this morning. We could not obtain any information from anyone about it. We saw that it was on the daily programme for today, as is normal on each alternate fortnight. 
Six Opposition members are prepared to take part in this debate and they have been for the past fortnight. To put this motion before the House without a moment's notice to honourable members has meant that I have had had to dash out of the chamber and contact the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  so that he would be here in time for the next item which he had expected would not come on before this afternoon. The Government is not giving us a fair go. It is especially unfair to the Whips who have a hard enough time to keep up with the movements of the Government and its thinking. I voice my strong protest at the decision of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  to wipe out the Grievance Day debate for this day. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Minister for Labour and National Service) - There was never any doubt in my mind that there would not be a Grievance debate this morning. The Government Whip and his  Deputy  have known that there would not be a Grievance debate today. It is my understanding that this was also known to the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  told me that he did not realise it. I think the difference lies in the fact that under the Standing Orders the Grievance Day debate is required to be listed on the notice paper. Some misunderstanding has arisen here. It is on the notice paper because the Standing Orders require it to be on the notice paper. I am entitled to move that there be no Grievance Day debate. In the circumstances and as it seems that some members of the Opposition have speeches prepared for a Grievance Day debate I am prepared to withdraw my motion and to allow the debate to continue for an hour. 
asked  the  Minister  for  Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Australian brewers are able lo make known very soon their requirements of hops for the next season. 
Can he say if the brewers intend to import hops and extract as in the past; if so, in what quantities. 
ls there a large stock-pile of hops, especially in Tasmania, where 80% of Australia's hops are grown. 
If so, will the Government move to restrict the importation of hops and extract. 
In view of the export of hops to the United Kingdom and Europe, especially the Pride of Ringwood variety, at a price lower than the local price, will the Government consider subsidising the difference between the two prices. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What revenue has the Commonwealth Treasury gained from (a) forfeited deposits of candidates and (b) fines imposed upon electors who did not vole at Federal elections held since 1951. 
What has it costthe Commonwealth to conduct the last eight Federal elections. 
How many polling booths operated on (a) 28th April 1951 and (b) 25th October 1969. 
You would be one of those who would use it for anything. 
As one who spends more time in this place than most honourable members I would like to comment on this proposed reform. My understanding of the work of this Parliament - its machinery, procedure and purpose - leads me to give my full support to this proposal. We listened to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  With all due respect to my new colleague, I say that his speech was a monologue of exaggeration in the sense that my friend  4  led everybody to believe that if the quorum is reduced from one-third to one-fifth, the Parliament will pack up. We have heard some amazing statements in the last 2 days on the Standing Orders reform motion. I am amazed that some honourable members are still in the place. I do not know why these great reformists have not resigned long ago. If this is as bad as they say, it is a wonder we have done anything in this place. Yet in the last autumn session we passed 57 Bills. 
That is a good thing. We had 94 divisions in that period. What I am trying to get at is this: We should not take notice of the argument that just by reducing the quorum, which is rarely called for, we are putting the nail in the coffin of this institution. That is absolute humbug, absolute rot. Let us look at some of the other parliaments in the world. The Tasmanian Assembly, at 40% has the highest quorum of any listed in the document. Ours is 33i%. 
I will come to that. The Western Australian Assembly has a 33$% requirement. These are the highest percentages of any parliament. The New South Wales Assembly requires a 21% quorum; the Ceylon House of Representative, 13%; the South African Assembly, 18%; the Canadian House of Commons, 7i%; the Indian Parliament, 10%; and the House of Commons, which has been quoted so often in this debate, 6i%. There are many organisations in this country of which we are all members. Take important organisations with 100 members. In most of them the quorum to enable members to carry out their business even if others are not there is 5 out of 100. Seven out of 100 is a quorum in many organisations with which I am associated. They are political and otherwise. 
They have not. We can carry out the business of these organisations with a quorum as small as that. ^ When we disapprove of legislation a division results and everybody comes into the chamber. The quorum rule in this place is used only rarely and it has been used for harassment by the Opposition. I have never heard a supporter of the Government in the years I have been here call for a quorum. When we call for a quorum it is a political tactic. We have members and Ministers racing three-quarters of a mile from their offices to the chamber. When they get half way here the bells stop ringing. A quorum is being called for but they do not know. This is one of the cruel things about the quorum. I have respect for all of my colleagues in this Parliament. I have respect for everybody in this place on both sides of the House. We have a remarkably efficient Parliament and a wonderful lot of intelligent, active and dedicated men in it. I have been here for 24 years and am ona of the oldest members in the place. I speak from experience and I am proud of the standard of the members of this Parliament. This will not appear as news in the Press but if I said that I despised the members of this Parliament that would be a Press headline. 
No, 1 will not change my mind. Calling for a quorum can be a very cruel and vicious thing because many honourable members may be in committee or Ministers may be interviewing constituents we have brought to them, or receiving deputations. These people will be left stranded while the Ministers head for the chamber. Sometimes they do not get to the chamber before the bells stop so they return to their offices, having run several hundred yards in record time. One improvement might be in the use of different sounding bells, one bell indicating a quorum and the other bell - higher or lower in pitch - indicating a division, lt is not the Opposition's responsibility to fill the chamber. It has always been the tradition of the Opposition to call for a quorum and then stay out. Forty- two members have to be brought from the Government side. When we talk about reducing quorums and the like let us be quite frank about why we on this side of the House use them. They are used for political purposes. 
I wish to ask a question of the Prime Minister mainly because the Government does not have a Minister for Pollution. In view of the mounting problem of pollution in our cities and the urgent need to take action before it reaches crisis point, will the relevant Government department make a study of the Clean Air Act passed by the House of Commons 2 or 3 years ago, which has already beaten pollution in London and several industrial cities of England? In this way the Commonwealth could give a lead to the States before their cities choke to death. 
Perhaps  it  has missed the attention of the House that in this motion we have won a victory for a very remarkable principle, and that is that the House will not sit past midnight. 
Yes, it is. We have won this principle. It is about time that some sanity was brought to the management of this Parliament in the form of the bringing down of this amendment, j am looking forward to the day when, by a resolution to change the Standing Orders, Parliament will rise before midnight. This must be the crankiest, maddest and most stupid Parliament in the world when it comes to sitting hours. I have just come back from a world trip when I attended a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in London. I visited 11 countries and inquired about the Parliaments in most of them. Some Parliaments do not sit at all in the evenings. They use that time for their committee work. This is a very good suggestion. But here we are slogging it out night after night around midnight. Honourable members have to be back here again early in the mornings to work in their offices. The attendants, the officers and the secretaries have to be back early, too. This puts a tremendous strain on people's mental and physical energies and capacities. If we cannot do our work in daylight we should take a look at our procedures. All we would have to do would be to sit in Parliament for a little longer, for a few weeks more at the end of the sessional periods. The public are always screaming that we do not sit long enough. They do not understand that we sit in the evening of every day on which we sit. That has been happening since the Parliament started. This is the first time in the 69 years' history of this Parliament that there has been a resolution before the House limiting the sitting of the House to midnight. That is late enough anyway. 
I agree with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that we would have a far more efficient Parliament, with honourable members on both sides feeling fresher, if we knocked off entirely at 10.30 p.m., which is a sensible time. Most meetings of other organisations finish at about 10 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. 
When the Standing Orders Committee's recommendations are adopted, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said, we will be making a very historic decision. In spite of what the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  thinks, he is going to be greatly outvoted on the recommendation to adjourn the House at 10.30 p.m. with provision for the adjournment debate after that. The adjournment might take half an hour or an hour. In this way Parliament will be adjourned before midnight on a lot more nights than it has been in the 69 years of its history. It is up to every member to take part in a revolution, to vote some sanity and sense into our Standing Orders when the Standing Orders 
Committee's recommendations come before Parliament. I do not want the Leader of the House to postpone indefinitely the presentation of the Standing Orders Committee's recommendations. I hope that he will have the heart - I think he has a heart somewhere in that body - to bring them before the Parliament as soon as possible. Let us get that matter out of the way, so that we will know where we are as far as evening sittings are concerned. 
This matter is a very important one; it concerns the health, efficiency and wellbeing of members of this Parliament. It also has a very important bearing on the standard of legislation that is passed here and on the interest that honourable members take in it. Nobody can go on week after week sitting until after midnight each night and expecting to feel 100%. lt is just ridiculous. Members of Parliament spend more late hours than any other body of people in Australia, because not only do we have late nights here, we also have late nights at home in our electorates at a whole range of functions which we attend until 1 o'clock or 1.30 in the morning as part of our ordinary duties. This is what happens and I think we should be sensible enough, when the opportunity arises, to make a 10.30 p.m. cut-out. The Leader of the House has proposed a temporary measure in suggesting an 11 p.m. cut-out with no sitting beyond midnight. It is a poor substitute for what we want and will seek later when we are debating the Standing Orders Committee report. As we will all have a free vote on that issue, let us all vole for earlier nights so that we can be more effective members of the Parliament. 
I  am sure that we would all be in agreement with most of what the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said in respect of the status of members of Parliament and the need to give them every working facility so that they may be more effective in their electorates and in the affairs of the nation. It is hard to convince people outside this place of the need for this. I wonder what salaries we would be getting today and under what conditions we would be working if we left it to people outside this place to decide. What sort of a slum would we be in? What sort of a slum salary would we be getting? The cynicism outside this place is widespread. Yet what the honourable member, one of our newer members, has said is absolutely right. Top public servants get transport facilities to which members of Parliament are not entitled. The secretary of a top public servant gets a car to herself. That is perfectly true. It is about time the Government set up a committee to analyse the facilities or lack of them available to members of Parliament and took to heart what the honourable member for Deakin has said. He was quite courageous in the way he placed this very personal matter before the Parliament this afternoon. Take the matter of secretarial assistance for back benchers. In this Parliament we have only  4  typiststenographers to cater for the  57  Labor Party back and front benchers excluding the Leader, the Deputy Leader and myself as Whip. I think the same number cater for Government back benchers. 
The number is  3  on each side, is it? 
That is right. The Ministers are not complaining about this. I think they are adequately catered for in their staffing. It is only right that this should be so. But I feel that the typing facilities for back benchers on both sides of this place should be at least doubled. As things are, a lot of work has to be done over the phone and this is expensive for the Government. Why not put this expenditure to a more useful purpose by helping to pay for extra secretaries here in this place to help members whose work has increased at an enormous rate with the development of the Commonwealth over the last few years? I am putting this suggestion forward to the Government for serious consideration. I believe that back benchers should have at least double the typists that they have at present. After all, the back benchers on both sides of this House are the grass roots of the Parliament. The Parliament is not the Cabinet; the Parliament is basically the back benchers of this place from whom are elected the members of the Cabinet. Let us never forget that. 
Every back bencher in this place represents between  40,000  and  60,000  electors. A backbencher has every right to be the most effective member that it is possible to make him, apart from his own shortcomings, and we all have them of course. But the facilities to make him so should be available without stint. We talk about staff and its cost. I was in America in June of this year where I visited Washington for  3  days. While I was there I found that every American senator has  13  fully paid secretaries, typists. stenographers and researchers on his staff. The cost of such a staff runs into thousands and thousands of dollars a year for each senator. Also,  I  found that each member of the United States House of Representatives has 8 fulltime workers on his staff. 
Yes, including researchers. But backbench members of this Parliament each has a staff of one - one solitary secretary and stenographer who in most cases is worked to death anyway, because the work of members of Parliament is increasing at such a rate. If people out there in the electorate, who are so cynical about us, get into trouble, where do they go to? They go to their private members, to the backbenchers, to get them out of all sorts of trouble. Yet in many cases at other times they criticise us in the most unparliamentary language. But they are right on our doorstep when they are in trouble. And each of us has only one staff number to help us all the year round. We have each one secretary while a senator in America has 13 and a Congressman has 8. Of course Amenca is a much bigger place than Australia, but the basic problems are the same. We in Australia are still representatives of the people. A member of this house may represent 60,000 electors, and we are entitled to have the number of stall that will enable us to do our job in the electorate as expeditiously, efficiently and as effectively as possible. I leave it at that, lint there need io be some changes in staffing at this point. 
I arn bitterly disappointed that the Government has nol laid some money aside in the present Budget to get on with the job of building the new Parliament Rouse. We have been committed to it. There is no need to get out from under; there is no need to get cold feet about it all. The absolute need for a new Parliament House is here among us. Fancy having to put on another extension to this place? As honourable members know, an extension is to be added to the Senate side of the House. This is ridiculous. Every hour, every day and every month that we delay getting started means ' that more money will be spent on this temporary building. This is not economics in the way that I have studied this subject. I expected to see a few hundred thousand dollars allocated in this Budget lo enable us to get started on the planning and the specifications for our new Parliament House. The Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House worked on this project for 2i years and 1 was a member of it. We have drawn up the most minute and detailed plans that have to be put before and passed by the appropriate authority. But I could not find a cent in the Budget which is to go towards starting off this project. This means that the funds will have to be provided in another Budget and that another year is wasted. We have decided th;".t the new Parliament House is to be sited on Camp Hill - for better or for worse, for richer or for poorer, in sickness and in health. I was happy about the Camp Hill site. Some of my colleagues are not happy about the site and they want the new parliament house to be built on Capital Hill. But this has been decided. The 
Government took it into its own hands and decided. 
 That is right. I regard the Cabinet and the Executive as the Government. So here we are no further advanced. This is completely wrong. When we see this place cracking and bursting at the seams, with not enough accommodation for the essential services of a parliament house, it is a pretty poor show that the Government has not started the ball rolling to build the new Parliament House. The new Parliament House will take 5 or 6 years to build. The building is being planned to last 400 years and the way we are going it will take that long to build it. The new Parliament House can be built by way of an allocation of so much per year. I do not know what the total cost will be, but it could be S20m or S30m. But this money will not be spent in one year, because the new Parliament House will be built over 5 or 6 years and the cost will be spread over this period. It will take 4 years for the plans and specifications to be prepared before we lay the foundation stone. So it is about time that this Government snapped out of it and gave the green light to those in charge to get started. 
Another matter I would like to criticise on behalf of the staff of this place concerns official government dinners. When we have official government dinners in Parliament House the staff dining room is closed. For the life of me I cannot under stand why. I do not think it is right for the staff dining room to be closed just because members of the Parliament are attending an official function to welcome an important visitor to this Parliament and this city. I would like to see this policy altered for the sake of all of our staff. The facilities for the large staff in this place arc not all that bright. It is not a fair go if staff have to miss out on a meal because members of Parliament are having a function in the official dining room. 
I too would like to thank the Library staff for their magnificent assistance to honourable members. The work of the Library has greatly improved in the last few years and none of us can complain about the way in which the Library staff helps us by researching for our speeches. 
The Library also obtains information for other people who need it.  Mr Fleming,  until recently the Librarian, and his staff are to be congratulated for their dedication and efficiency. Hansard too is a vital part of this Parliament in recording good speeches, not so good speeches and other sorts of speeches, lt is also doing a magnificent job. I agree with my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that the lady member of the Hansard staff ought to be receiving the same salar)* as the male members of that staff. It is unique to have a female on the Parliamentary Reporting Staff actually taking shorthand in this Parliament. We are very proud of the fact that Australia has made this breakthrough, as it were, and that the fairer sex is now fair and square in the middle of this place helping to take down speeches made by members of an all male House. 
I would also like to make a statement about the standing committees that have been referred to by other speakers today. One matter particularly which I want to refer to concerns the motion in the name of my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  which is set down on the Notice Paper for debate at some future time. The honourable member for Wills wants to have set up 7 standing committees of this House. The subjects of these committees will be foreign affairs and defence; finance and trade; health and welfare; primary industry and national development; transport and communications; education, science and arts; and legal, home and internal territory affairs. These committees would be so constituted that the top men in various departments would be called upon to give evidence and to produce facts and figures so that the committees might better be able to analyse and dissect the legislation that comes down from the Government. The Senate has the same idea. I am very much afraid that this setup could be far too cumbersome for our Parliament. I am opposed to this type of committee system. I think that the joint committee system we have now is very effective and can be made more effective. I wonder where we would get if we had seven more committees superimposed on the same sort of committees set up by the Senate. I am quite sure that the left hand would not know what the right hand was doing. It would be a tremendous strain on the heads of departments who would be invited over here one day to give evidence to the House of Representatives committee and perhaps on the next day to give evidence to the same committee operating in the Senate. Ne'er the twain shall meet. 
We know that the Senate is endeavouring to build up its status. If the senators think that the formation of this type of committee system like the American system will build up their status in the country, that is their business. But if we here do the same thing it will become so cumbersone, so intricate and involved that it will defeat its own end. We have 14 of our own Party committees, we have the standing committees and the joint committees. We will not have time for debates in Parliament. We will spend most of our time attending committee meetings. I feel that the system will be too cumbersome to operate effectively. At this stage, therefore, I am opposed to the intricate system of committees suggested by the honourable member for Wills.  I  hope (hat the Government will consider as quickly as possible what has been said today by honourable members. 
I want to congratulate the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  on the speech he has just given. I do not think any of us on this side would disagree with any of it, and that is quite a change. 
 There is nothing wrong with that sometimes. If we had a few more Christian soldiers in the trouble spots of the world we would have less trouble. But that seems to be the last thing anyone is trying to achieve. It is all bullets, bombs and grenades, but not the things that the honourable member for Holt was speaking about tonight. 
I want to speak on another subject in the whole range of external affairs. 1. want to speak about an island fortress which has more armed men to the square mile than any other country in the world, including Vietnam. 
While returning from London, where I attended a parliamentary conference in June, I had 3 days on the island of Cyprus in the Mediterranean as a guest of the Department of External Affairs. My main purpose was to visit the 50 Australians in the seventh voluntary contingent of Australian policemen who have gone to this troubled island to help keep the peace and make the peace in a very strategic spot in world affairs. This was a great experience for me, and right at the start I want to say what a magnificent job our Australian policemen are doing on that island under United Nations jurisdiction. As 1 said, the island is an armed fortress. There are 21,000 armed men on Cyprus. There are nearly 3,000 United Nations soldiers coming from the countries of Canada, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The police force, which is unarmed, is made up of 175 men from 
Austria, Australia, Sweden and Finland. 
The other armed men on Cyprus are the 500 armed Turkish national soldiers and the 700 armed national Greek soldiers from the mainland. There are also 10,000 armed Greek Cypriots and 7,000 armed Turkish Cypriots, and the police forces of both the Turkish and Greek sections of the island are also armed. 
This situation has of course arisen from the breakdown of independence that was granted to Cyprus in 1960 when it had a parliament of 35 members, the  President  being Archbishop Makarios. After about 2 years negotiations broke down and the Turks and the Greeks have since gone their own way. Into this troubled and desperate situation, which was virtually civil war for many months, came the United Nations with its armed force. Until 1963 only the United Nations armed force was there. Since 1963 the unarmed civil police of 4 nations have been operating under United Nations jurisdiction. They have helped to create a state of calm in this unfortunate situation where Greek and Turkish Cypriots were at each other's throats. In the years since the independence negotiations broke down there have been many murders on the island. 
Cyprus is still called the Republic of Cyprus, but it is a united republic in name only. The Greek section of the Parliament still meets front time to time. In fact an election was held shortly before I arrived on the island, and 9 Communists were elected to a parliament of 35. This is significant. We know that Communism breeds in unrest, poverty and injustice. It is serious that Communists who are not revolutionaries or anarchists but the ordinary residents of the island were strong enough to obtain 9 seats in a parliament of 35. The election of these Communists helps to create a serious international situation as far as Cyprus is concerned. For decades Australia has had very little to do with Cyprus but now we have a stake in this trouble spot. We have 50 policemen there under United Nations control, helping to keep the peace between the 2 antagonists. The situation on Cyprus has changed the state of the Mediterranean. We know that the Soviet fleet is in the Mediterranean. We know what is happening on the borders of Israel. We know of the very practical help - there can be no doubt of this - given to Egypt by the Russians. Surrounded by all this is the 5,000 square miles island of Cyprus. Britain's air strength on the island is her largest outside the United Kingdom. The British have 80 square miles in 2 areas on the southern part of the island, for which they are paying to the Greek Government ยฃStg 18m a year in rent. Here they have every modern aircraft imaginable. It is a magnificent base. 
Certainly not. It is a magnificent base and helps to bring security to this troubled area. In the Mediterranean we have the fleets of America and Russia and embattled Israel. This makes the area potentially one of the world's most explosive. Those of us who have read about the area and who know something of the antagonists on Cyprus will concede that from here could come the spark to start another world war. This is why I say that Cyprus is the most strategic island in the Mediterranean. If we can keep the peace on Cyprus long enough to allow the Greeks and Turks to get together again in the democratic parliamentary process that began 10 years ago we could very well save the peace of the Middle East. Thus the police work is doubly significant. 
The work of the Australian police on Cyprus is varied. They are situated in the British zone. There are 6 military zones on Cyprus, with 6 United Nations military forces in general supervision. Within the 6 zones are the police divisions. There are 175 police to cover the 6 military zones. The Australian contingent is in the British zone. Its major headquarters, which I visited by helicopter provided by the Royal Air Force, are at Limassol, Polis and Ktima. As an Australian I was proud to meet these men who volunteered for this difficult task of being at the hub of the peace keeping operations on this island. We should be proud of our men on Cyprus. Their leader is Superintendent Peter McAulay of South Australia. He is also an adviser to General Chand, who is in charge of the United Nations force. Speaking of Peter McAulay, General Chand told me privately: 'I wish you could give us Peter McAulay. I would make him a brigadier tomorrow'. In Australia's police contingent there are 3 or 4 men from South 
Australia and 4 Tasmanians, whom 1 met. It is a magnificent body of men. They patrol 267 villages. 
There are 600 villages on the island. The 175 police on the island patrol those villages day in and day out, week in and week out. They keep in clase contact with the people. They are able to learn what is going on. If trouble arises they can deal with it expeditiously. Truly this is a unique experiment in United Nations peace keeping operations. 
In an address delivered at the headquarters of the United Nations peace keeping force in Cyprus, known as UNFICYP, to visiting members of the Imperial Defence College shortly before I arrived on the island Peter McAulay said that the force's duties have taken it into all of the villages on the island to search for trouble, and having found it, to settle it on the spot. He said that the police are now deployed in 12 stations or substations of varying staff establishments. 
The number of investigations which resulted in the submission of an extraordinary report is interesting. There were 387 investigations in 1964, 815 in 1965, 716 in 1966, 574 in 1967, 623 in 1968 and 1,580 in 1969. The increase over the years is accounted for by the fact that the force has been spread over a wider area. Members of the force now visit every village on the island regularly. So their base for the gathering of information has been greatly enlarged. They have also won the confidence of the Greek and Turkish communities, who are now reporting incidents to the police whereas before they settled their differences privately. This is a tribute to the unarmed police on Cyprus. In the last 12 months the military force on Cyprus has been reduced by about 700 men. It appears to me, from studying the situation while I was there and talking to all the top men on the United Nations side as well as on the police force side, that in the next 12 months there could be a reduction in the military forces and an increase in the police forces on this island because of the splendid work done by the unarmed civil police from the 4 nations that I have mentioned. 
An interesting point that I want to stress here was also mentioned by the SecretaryGeneral in his report for the 6 months up  to 1st June. Citing the 1,580 investigations handled last year, which 1 have just mentioned, he said: 
However, this does not denote an increased rate of intercommunal crimes and incidents, which in fact remained at about the same level; it rather reflects the enhanced confidence of both sides in referring matters to UNCIVPOL 
That is, the United Nations civil police. The Greeks are not allowed into any of the 42 Turkish enclaves on the island. They are guarded by Turkish armed men. The Greeks will let the Turks into a few of their areas, but Nicosia itself, the capital, is divided down the middle between the Turks and the Greeks, and to pass from one section to the other one has to go through armed posts. The hills all around Kyrenia have armed men stationed at  strongpoints  - both Greeks and Turks. The United Nations forces are acting generally as a buffer between the Greek and Turkish positions. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether any constitutional or International Sugar Agreement barriers would be raised by the Commonwealth to the establishment in Tasmania of a sugar beet industry capable of eventually producing the State's annual sugar requirements of 26,000 tons. 
We are very grateful to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  for outlining the problems of the meat processing works and the relationship between Australia and the United States of America on the export of Australian meat" to America. About 20,000 people are engaged in the meat industry in Victoria alone. If something is not done soon to have the processing factories re-' registered and to have more meat inspectors appointed this industry will be in danger of collapse. It has two forces hammering against it - firstly, a lack of inspectors and, secondly, the American intransigence towards our abattoirs and the health standards required. 
The decline in the economic importance, profitability and viability of our primary industries is the disaster story of the last decade; but it is not a disaster in terms of efficiency. The Australian farmer in every field is as efficient as most other farmers in the world. But the disaster is in the payability of rural industries. When I was overseas about 2 months ago I visited 11 countries. I noticed that England, Scotland, France, Switzerland and Italy sold almost all their rural production in their own country because they had large populations. This is their secret and their advantage. Australia, with a tremendous production potential but a. small consumer population, has to export nearly 80 per cent of its foodstuffs. This involves finding markets in other countries, being at the mercy of ruthless competition from other countries which grow the same products as ourselves, and facing the economic weakness of some of the countries overseas that are potential markets. 
Just to show how rural industries have declined in the ways I have mentioned I shall quote some figures provided for me by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  back in May this year. I asked him what percentage of the gross national product was represented by the output of rural industries in each of the years 1929, 1939. 1949. 1959, and 1969.  His  answer was that in 1928-29 rural income amounted to 21.4 per cent of the gross national product. This had declined to 9.3 per cent in 1969, 40 years later. I asked him also what percentage of Australian export income came from rural export in each of these same years. The answer was that in 1928-29, 90 per cent of our export income came from rural industries. Last year the proportion was 58 per cent. Those figures alone show a very sad and serious story in this important economic field. 
This decline will continue. The only hope that Australia has of being able to hold the fort lies in the earnings from mineral production. The Government itself has become conscious of this fact, so much so that many ways of helping primary industry have been overlooked and have been neglected. The Government has at the back of its mind the hope that in a few years time, say by 1975, the value of mineral exports will top $2,000m and that this will save Australia. In the meantime, though, thousands of farmers will go to the wall. We know quite well that once the price of primary products fell in 1928, 1929 and 1930 we were on the verge of world depression. 1 am quite sure that once primary industry falls to' pieces this country will fall to pieces. Even mineral exports will not save us unless we can stop the downward trend in primary industries. Last year primary industries brought in about $4,000m in export income, but this is on the decline. 
Tonight 1 want to refer also to frozen food prices, which have gone up in some cases by 100 per cent because 15 processors of frozen food have at last got together to save each other. I think the axiom is that if we do not stick together we will fall apart, or if we do not hang together we will all hang separately. So traditional rivals in the pea and bean processing industries have formed this famous cartel to save themselves although none of them is yet poverty stricken. I have figures here showing their profits last year. They fell by perhaps 15 per cent to 20 per cent in 12 months, but these firms are still not poverty stricken. The Petersville group made a profit of more than $1,300,000 last year, which was $400,000 less than for the previous year. It is not destitute yet by any means, but it is prepared to increase the price for frozen food by up to 100 per cent at one fell swoop. 
Exactly, without any of the increase in the price going to the producers. My State of Tasmania grows 55 per cent of the peas that are frozen and the growers receive 31/2c per lb. Tasmanian growers have been forced to reduce production for this coming season because their contracts have been cut by half. Some areas of my State will not grow one acre of peas this year because the processors claim they have a huge surplus of peas to dispose of on the local market. The production last year was 110 million lb but in the previous year 82 million lb was grown. They have decided to get rid of the surplus by lifting the price to these fantastic levels. I cannot for the life of me understand how they will sell the surplus by increasing the price in this way. 
A newspaper article on 22nd September 1970 had this to say about the increased price of frozen food: 
In some metropolitan retail stores yesterday-- 
This was Monday -  the price of a 16 oz packet of frozen peas jumped from 17c to 33c. 
The price of a 10 oz packet of peas doubled from 11c to 22c. 
Throughout another group of self-service stores, a 16 oz packet of beans rose 7c to 34c, a 16 oz packet of peas increased from 17c to 31c and frozen potato chips went from 29c to 32c. 
Rises in most other stores were similar. 

 Mr Bannerman, the Commissioner of Trade Practices, is examining this matter to see whether it comes under the restric- tivetradepracticeslegislation.Whenwe ask him for details about the register of trade practices we find that it is secret because of the secrecy provisions of the taxation laws. As a result,  Mr Bannerman  certainly has his hands tied in trying to handle this question at that level. The increased prices are an outrageous imposition on the consumers of Australia. If the farmers of Australia were to benefit - I refer to the pea. bean and potato growers - it would reduce the blow somewhat. This action will certainly greatly slow down the sale of surplus peas and beans. 
It is interesting to note that New Zealand processors have also come into this cartel agreement. They are at the moment processing Suprise peas in Australia. New Zealand peas are brought across the Tasman Sea and are processed in Melbourne. We in Tasmania know that the impact of this action is gradually stifling and throttling the industry in our State. The effect may not be fully felt for 2, 3 or 4 years, but the importation of thousands and thousands of pounds of peas will definitely and gradually stultify our very viable industry which provides a cash crop that so many of our growers need to help them with some of the losses that have been sustained on other crops. I might mention that we have done very little over the years about exporting potatoes. Our potatoes have been consumed mostly within the Commonwealth. In the first week of August on my way home from London I met our Trade Commissioner in Singapore and requested him to send me some very interesting information on the importation of potatoes into Singapore from Western Australia and from Tasmania in particular. He told me that the type most preferred is a yellow flesh potato which is grown on white clay soil. The next preferred type is a whitish flesh potato grown on white clay soil. The Trade Commissioner also advised me that the size preferred was 40 mm to 60 mm in diameter for hotels, ships and the domestic market. He mentioned that importers preferred 25 kilo bag packing. I was also informed of the prices paid in different seasons in Singapore for potatoes. Holland exports to Singapore from July to December; New Zealand exports from December to May; and Mainland China and Taiwan export throughout most of the year. I was told that the best period for Australia to come into the market is between January and May when at least Holland, which is the next major supplying country, is not offering. 
The statistics on the size of the market are very interesting. In the period January to December 1967 Australia exported 4,910 tons valued at $1,201,000. In the period January to December 1968 Australia exported into Singapore 4,651 tons. 
In the period January to December 1969 Australia exported 9,770 tons - double our previous year's export - at a value of $2,350,000. The Singapore market is supplied by Australia, China, Formosa, France and Monaco, India, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan and West Malaysia. So we have tremendous competition in this market. But in 12 months we doubled our export of potatoes into the Singapore market from Tasmania and Western Australia. This is the sort of thing that will help to save many of our farmers from going off the land. It is constructive trade promotion. We should be endeavouring to create markets for new products in Asia, which is the closest continent to us and where so much of our foodstuffs are now being sold. 
The Trade Commissioner in Singapore gave me a list of about 8 importers who would be a help to Tasmania when that State is making arrangements for further exports. We are sending seed potatoes to Ceylon as well as Singapore. Western Australia also has sent a big shipment of seed potatoes to Ceylon, f give this as a practical illustration of what we can do through the Department of Trade and Industry which is working overtime to try and find the right kind of foodstuffs to put on to the Asian markets. If further markets can be developed we can certainly help to relieve some of the stress on our cash crop growers throughout Australia. I recommend this course of action to the Department for further investigation and 1 hope that the potato market will be boosted still further. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that health standards insisted upon by the United 
States of America for Australian abattoirs are more rigid than the standards which apply to abattoirs in the United States? Is it so that half of our abattoirs have lost their licences? In view of the disastrous, effect on our meat exporting and processing works in this country of what amounts to gross American interference in an Australian export industry, would the Government consider as legitimate retaliation a boycott on selected American imports? Is the presence of American meat inspectors in our abattoirs not an insult to our own inspectors and a slur on our own health standards? 
I condemn the Postmaster-General's Department for its cunning technique in separating the accounts for the postal section from the accounts for the telecommunication section. The postal and telecommunication sections belong to the same Department and they are controlled by the same departmental heads and the PostmasterGeneral, who is in overall charge of both sections. Yet in the annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department each year the accounts of these 2 sections are separated. The report for 1969-70 shows that the postal section incured a loss of $19m, but the telecommunication section made a profit of S23m  -  a net profit of $4m, which is not a bad profit, taking everything into consideration. If a private business undertaking were to make a profit of $4m it would be very happy. 
The Department is not satisfied with a net profit of $4m. It is now budgeting for a combined profit of $30m. This is being done at the expense of thousands and thousands of Australian citizens who use the services of the Post Office, as I will point out in a moment. Now, with the increased charges proposed under this Budget for 1970-71, the postal services will show a loss of $9m. The loss incurred in providing postal services will be reduced from $19m to $9m. But the telecommunication section is expected to show a profit of $39m. That profit is in the class of the profits made by General-Motors Holdens Pty Ltd and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. That is sheer unadultered capitalism. Here is a public department which has the nerve to budget for a profit of $39m in one section. I condemn this subterfuge in bringing this type of document before this Parliament. 
The device of separating these 2 sections of the Department is the excuse which the Department uses to justify a savage increase in postal rates, the cost of telephone calls, telephone rentals, installation charges, and the cost of telegrams, etc. Installation charges are to be increased from $30 to $40 and telephone rentals are to be increased by $7 per annum. We must remember that at the lower end of the Australian economy are the pensioners who are being hit very hard by these increases. I am sure that most pensioners have a telephone for one reason - as a virtual lifeline to their doctors. They will be hit by these vicious, savage increased charges. I would also like to mention a few other criticisms. In Tasmania we have a new brain child. Three separate telephone directories will be printed for 1971. 
Tasmania will be divided into 3 areas, and each area is to have a separate telephone directory. For the life of me I cannot see the economy of this or the sense of it. The local councils are very upset about the proposal. Business houses will have to have 3 directors. I am not blaming the director in Tasmania for this brainstorm. He is a splendid chap who has done a wonderful job down there. He suggests that the 3 directories should be linked. 
This scheme will cause extra expense and make the whole system more inconvenient. Fancy the business houses having to have 3 directories, although admittedly each will be smaller than the present one. With Tasmania divided into 3 areas with 3 separate editions of directories, the cost will increase. A better idea would have been to have had 3 separate colour schemes in the one directory. Divide Tasmania into 3 areas if you wish, but let us have one book with a different colour scheme for each of the 3 divisions to be identified. 
I want to mention also the meanness of the Post Office in respect of the provision of public telephone cabinets in isolated country areas. My electorate covers half of Tasmania - 13,000 square miles. Thirty-four post offices have been closed in my electorate alone in the last 24- years. Often, when a post office is closed, the public telephone cabinet is taken away. Let me give 2 instances of what has gone on. Between Deloraine and Bothwell along the Lake Highway over the top of Tasmania there is a distance of SO miles between 2 public telephone cabinets. This area is used by fishermen and weekend visitors who have shacks there and the highway is a tourist road. I have made 2 representations to  Mr Gilson  to try to get a public telephone cabinet at a place called Miena right at the top of the island, in a most isolated area. This is a very important road for tourists, yet this facility will not be provided. One has to go into a privately owned service station to ring up- 
The only reason we ask that these isolated areas be covered is in case of accident, fire, flood, disaster or sickness. They are miles and miles from anywhere and there is nowhere to ring up. In Launceston in the suburb where I live, 
Kings Meadows, there are 4 telephone cabinets in a distance of three quarters of a mile. Where is the fairness in this, when the city people get everything and the country people lose post offices and telephone cabinets by the hundreds throughout Australia? I condemn this system. In another area between Woodsdale and Parattah in my electorate, a distance of about 15 miles, 2 telephone cabinets have been taken away. 1 suppose this is part of the scheme of trying to cut costs. I condemn the PMG Department for cutting costs in country districts. This is where people need the facilities. Communication is their life blood and their lifeline. 1 cannot condemn too heartily tonight what is going on in these areas. There are 4 telephone cabinets within a distance of three quarters of a mile in a suburb of Launceston and for 50 miles along an isolated country road, which is a very important highway of the island, there is not a telephone cabinet. Another thing that I would like to mention is the extra cost to post various periodicals around Australia. This has been increased to 175 per cent in one go. I have here a whole list of important publications throughout Australia that have been hit by this vicious increase in postal rates. The Hobart 'Mercury' is one of the biggest newspapers in the island. It is going to cost the country farmer on the country road $17 a year to have his paper delivered to him. This is a huge increase. Other companies which are producing some very interesting publications in Australia will be forced to have them printed in other countries and posted back to Australia. They believe this will be cheaper. 
Finally, I suggest that the Postal Department institute a 12 minute trunk call system on Sundays between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. so that friends can ring each other when it is not a busy time. This is done in England. There they advertise along these lines: 'Ring your friends after 6 p.m. each night at cheaper rates.' That is each night. Let us make it on Sundays. Let us have  a  12-minute call for the same price as the present 3-minute unit, to encourage people to use the telephone, and to provide a service. When the Labor Party becomes the Government we will set up a Post Office corporation and make some very big changes in the whole set-up of the Australian Post Office. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware of the bombshell dropped by the Tasmanian University Council last week when it announced that 32 first year medical students will not be permitted to continue their course or career in medicine because of the shortage of  s:&lt;.:  and facilities? Will the Government guarantee sufficient emergency funds to enable the University to recruit staff an&lt;? to provide extra facilities before the 1&gt;?1 academic year commences? Does the Minister realise that those 32 students who passed then medical examinations this year will be forced to register for science courses which they do not wish to do and, as a result o[ which, Australia and Tasmania will lose 32 prospective medical practitioners? Can Autralia afford this erosion of potential doctors? 
The Tasmanian mainland trade has been the Australian National Line's most profitable segment. It is now to be slugged with a 124 per cent increase in freights at one go. Tasmanian industrialists and primary producers, manufacturers and consumers are being asked to rescue the ANL from its losses last year. We regard this as unjust and detrimental. The ANL is a commission, the very structure of which is in direct conflict with the economic philosophy of a Liberal-Country Party Government. This Government is the fanatic supporter of private enterprise but in 1956 it was forced by pressure from this side of the House and shippers throughout Tasmania and other States to create a Governmentowned shipping enterprise. This is anathema to its philosophy. Its heart is not in public enterprise. This has been obvious since 1950 when the Government of the day knocked out the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd, the Australian Whaling Commission and other Government enterprises. The Government has no real heart for the ANL either and I believe this lack of concern has been detrimental to the operations of the Line. It has had restrictions placed on its services and operations as a direct result of Government economic philosophy. 
Recently the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  delivered another tremendous blow at ANL by refusing to grant a 35 hour week to the specialist waterside workers working on ANL ships. This has become and will be in the future a disastrous thing for the economics of ANL. The Line has had no industrial trouble for 14 years through the special arrangements between it and the Waterside Workers Union, and now a fumbling interfering Minister is going to cause them great concern. What will be the effects of a 12ยฃ per cent rise on Tasmania's economy? First, there will be discouragement of new industries. The increased freight will outweigh the gain to Tasmania's industrialists of the electric power rebate which they get. Secondly, it will move Tasmania's industries outside competition. In other words, the costs of freight will nullify the ability and capacity of our industries to compete with their rivals on the mainland. Thirdly, it will reduce still further the returns to our Tasmanian exporters, many of whom are the hard hit primary producers. Fourthly, it will put Tasmania m an economic backwater, reducing employment and creating a depressed State. 
What is the most effective way to strangle a country's economy? It is by cutting off or reducing its trade. During World War II Germany knew it could not destroy Britain by massive bombing, but knew it could bring Britain to her knees if German submarines could destroy the ships bringing into Britain desperately needed imports, raw materials and food. We are grateful Germany failed. Trade is the lifeblood, the very jugular vein of any country. Tasmania is an island State. The whole of her economy is geared to shipping. Ninety-eight per cent of her trade and transport is done by shipping alone, unlike the mainland States with their rail and road transport systems. If we lift freight rates now by  12t  per cent or if we reduce shipping activity we immediately hit the jugular vein of our economic life. When we consider that ANL lifts 75 per cent to 80 per cent of Tasmania's mainland exports and imports, its sheer dependence on the ANL for its economic existence is vividly illustrated. 
We appreciate the shipping service to Tasmania provided by ANL. It has revolutionised transport and modernised it, but as far as our State is concerned we are not in favour of  a  124 per cent increase at one go in our freight charges. This is a catastrophic blow to our economy at one point of time. Tasmanian shippers would not have complained about a 5 per cent increase with a further review in 2 years time, for instance. Industrialists over there are staggered. Hear them in interviews on television. Farmers are discouraged and bewildered by the savage increase in freight rates. More and more this will dampen our production, kill incentives and impoverish whole segments of primary and secondary industry. It is a major and massive setback to our economy and will be felt within the next 6 months. Tasmania exports to the mainland, among other things, potatoes, peas - which comprise 60 per cent of Australia's production - meat, apples and pears, dairy products, wool, chocolates, hops, cement, paper, timber - which is already facing vicious competition from low cost countries to our north - minerals and chemicals. 
What does the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act say about costs? Section 17 provides that if the Commission operates at a loss it is entitled to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth to the extent of the loss it incurs in maintaining and operating a shipping service in accordance with a direction given by the Minister or to the extent of a loss which results from the whole of the operations of the Commission, whichever is the less. But so far it has not cost the Government lc. I have a list of figures which I have extracted from the report of the Australian National Line for 1968-69. This indicates that the profits of the Australian National Line, after tax has been paid, total for the 12 years since 1957-58 an amount of $29.2m, or an average profit of $2.4ra until this year when, for several reasons, it incurred a loss of SI. 4m. In the last 13 years the Line has had a total credit balance of $27. 8m. Section 18 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act states: 
Subject to its obligations under the last preceding section, the Commission shall pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure properly chargeable to revenue, and to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on the capital of the Commission. 
The Commission shall conduct its shipping services as efficiently as possible and shall, subject to the last preceding sub-section, make its shipping available at the lowest possible rates of charges. 
I firmly believe that the Tasmanian Government, on the basts of this provision, should have sued the Commonwealth Government to obtain shipping freight justice for Tasmania. The Commission is not forced to operate at a profit year by year. We know that the Australian National Line is losing heavily on the Darwin section of its trade but is making a profit on the Tasmanian section. What would a court regard as a reasonable return on capital, or the lowest possible rates of charges? During the last year the Commission spent enormous sums of money so it is no wonder that it had a loss. According to its latest report expenditure on plant and equipment increased from S2.5m in 1969 to $10.5m in 1970- an increase of $8m in one item. No wonder the Commission incurred a loss, but this expenditure was important to ensure the Commission's continuation. In these circumstances it is not disastrous that it should show a loss in this last 12 months. 
In respect of possible alternatives, I want to quote what Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Earle, the Secretary-General of the International Cargo Handling Co-ordination Association said in Hobart on Monday, 19th October 1970. He said that shipping charges would continue to rise. Also he said: 
While the ANL ami the Union Steam Ship Co. operate in conference and wages continue to spiral I cannot see any alternative to rising freights. The only possibility would be for a non-conference operator to enter the trade with under-cut rates and this alternative seems slim. 
If there were a Federal Labor government at the moment, it would be sending the Australian National Line's overseas vessels out as separate entities operating under their own control and not linked as serfs to the conference line with competitive overseas freight rates. I believe that a Federal shipping subsidy is necessary to offset the freight increases in Tasmania and to give Tasmania economic justice with the mainland States which have road and rail transport alternatives. 
The Commonwealth Government has spent millions on beef roads in the north and on standardisation of rail transport on the mainland. These payments have all been subsidies. What is wrong with a subsidy on shipping freight rates to Tasmania if the Government is prepared to spend the millions it has spent in the north of Australia and on rail standardisation? We want also our own separate booking offices throughout Australia and not the present ridiculous setup where customers have to go to private or rival shipping companies to book cargoes on the Australian National Line. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Up to this moment we have received no assurance from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  that a Bill setting up a wool commission will be introduced in the foreseeable future, and all his theatricals just now will not wipe away that fact. If this motion to suspend standing orders has done nothing else it has at least got the Minister on his feet. 
That is right. It has got him on his feet, and he has given an assurance that this Bill will probably be introduced next week so that it can be debated next week. This is something we want to know. Everybody interested in rural industries wants to know this. All the wool growers want to know this. It would be inconceivable to think that the Parliament would go into recess at the end of next week without this Bill having been introduced. We know that it is an intricate measure. We know that it presents a lot of drafting problems, but I am sure that if the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  were dinkum the Minister would put on extra drafting staff to make absolutely sure that this Bill would be ready to be debated this session before we rise tomorrow week. 
It is no use the Minister for Labour and National Service trying to make out that the motion moved by the Opposition is ill conceived. It is nothing of the sort. It has caused the Minister to make a definite statement to this Parliament and to everybody that he is on the job getting this Bill ready for presentation to the House. And we will be on the job to facilitate its passing. It will not be opposed, as far as I understand, by this side of the House, even though we may be critical of features of it or say that it should have a lot more teeth than it has. I firmly believe it is a halfbaked measure at best and it is not the measure that was desired by  Sir John  Crawford when he made his recommendations to the Government. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  have said, only yesterday made the statement that the wool industry slump is a national disaster. Every cent less that we get for a lb of our wool means $20m less in the pockets of the wool growers, lt is a mighty industry and everybody is concerned about it. This Bill has to be passed this session. We are prepared to come back the week after next to deal with it, and we will come back after the elections if necessary. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry should not try to make out that we are insincere in our intentions towards the wool industry, because we are not. We have a rural committee which has spent hours and hours working on a solution to the problems of this industry. We are conscious of the problems. 
This motion to suspend standing orders has had the effect of gaining an assurance from the Leader of the House, who I know is having a difficult time because this is an intricate Bill. He does not want to introduce a Bill that is only half prepared. He must bring down a fully drafted Bill that is ready to be debated, sent to another chamber and then put into operation. So he does not have an easy task. He is dealing with a new measure. A new commission is to be set up to establish a wool marketing authority. But honourable members on this side of the House want to see this legislation passed next week at the latest. As I said before we are prepared to co-operate to the maximum to make sure that this measure is passed as soon as is absolutely possible. 
Surely one of the most satisfying expenditures that a nation can make is in the field of water conservation and irrigation. The Bill before us is designed to give to the States the necessary financial means to enable them to discover and measure the extent of underground water, and to record the rate of flow and capacity of our rivers. Just as we must know the extent of our national income before we can allocate expenditure economically, so we must know the extent of our water resources before we can plan adequately our conservation programme. As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said in his second reading speech: 
The Commonwealth grants have been allocated between the States on the basis of the State's own proposed programmes for both surface and underground water. 
Therefore the allocation has been linked not only with dams but with irrigation schemes as well. The Minister went on to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mentioned in October last year that this programme would be brought within the compass of the national water resources development programme - the whole national programme of water conservation and irrigation. Then he said: 
Thus, the grants provided for in this Bill are part of the total allocation to be made to the States in the national water programme. The provision of works to conserve and use our water resources must be preceded by thorough investigations of the resources involved, so that adequate basic data for rational development are available. The programme of water resources assessment which all governments are undertaking has been devised with this end in view. 
It is a commendable programme. We have waited a long time for the implementation of such a scheme. The former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer, set the ball rolling in 1964. The Government boasts about what it has done in regard to water conservation in Australia but it has been the only government in office for 21 years, and if it has not something worthwhile to show for 21 years occupancy of the Treasury bench it is a pretty poor government. I do not think there is anything to boast about in what the Government has done after 21 years in office. 
The Tasmanian aspect of this matter is shown in the schedules to the Bill. Each State has its own drought problem, its own water problem and its own problem of water running to waste into the sea. Being a Tasmanian, it is only right that 1 should refer to the Tasmanian aspect. In the First Schedule to the Bill relating to the measurement of discbarge of rivers it is shown that the base amount of expenditure for Tasmania will be $89,500 and that for each of the next 3 years the allocation will be $47,400. In other words, over the. next 3 years a total, of $142,200 will be available to Tasmania. In the Second Schedule which relates to the investigation and measurement of underground water resources the base amount of expenditure for Tasmania will be $15,000 and for each of the next 3 years it will be $23,100, making a total for the 3 years of $69,300. If one adds the 2 amounts one will see that the Commonwealth will grant to Tasmania over the next 3 years just over $200,000. We are grateful for that consideration. 
Although the Commonwealth is prepared to grant that sum of money the State, not the Commonwealth, has the fina] say on whether it will be granted. Let me read to the House clause 8 of the Bill which is the relevant clause: 
(1.) A State is not entitled to financial assistance under this Act in respect of a year to which this Act applies unless the State has duly furnished to the Minister a report in relation to the first six months of that year and a report in relation to the whole of that year, to the satisfaction of the Minister, setting out particulars of the works carried out, the facilities provided, and the things done, by the State during that period in connection with - 
the measurement of the discharge of the rivers in the State; and 
the investigation and measurement of underground water resources of the State. . . . 
That throws back to the States the full responsibility of whether they will receive the grant. In other words, the States must have the equipment, the manpower and the knowhow to set about the 2 jobs, firstly, measuring the surface flow of rivers, and secondly, measuring underground water resources. The States will have to show the maximum concern, activity and cooperation to receive this grant. That is rightly so. The Commonwealth will pay according to the work done. In my opinion, that is a fair condition. The sums of money that I have mentioned in respect of Tasmania are the sums which the Commonwealth will grant provided the State shows that it has spent a certain amount on the works concerned. 
Another matter I wish to mention relates to one of our schemes, the Poatina irrigation scheme, which will use about 12 per cent of the water from the tailrace of the Poatina hydro-electric works. A Bill allocating $750,000 to Tasmania was passed last year. Tasmania has contributed an additional sum making a total of about Sim for the scheme. That is bound up with the measure before us because a definite mesurement of water was required in connection with the construction of the Poatina Dam. The other big project which the former Minister for National Development mentioned - the Gordon River scheme - will cost about $95m and will conserve more than 8 times the amount of water in Sydney Harbour. That scheme will almost equal the biggest section of the Snowy Mountains scheme. It is being undertaken on the Gordon River on the southern tip of my electorate. A road 53 miles long was built from Maydena to it out of money allocated by this Government - about $5m over a period of 2 or 3 years. This road was through wild, rugged, untouched country. A big township has been established by the Hydro-Electric Commission at Strathgordon. It will take about 8 or 9 years to complete this gigantic water conservation and hydro-electric project. 
The amazing thing about our projects is that they are all linked with the production of hydro-electric power. When the Gordon River scheme is completed we will have 15 or 18 dams, arl producing power and some producing water for irrigation. The Poatina irrigation scheme running to the north of Poatina through Cressy and Longford districts will be part of a scheme involving the use of water to produce power and the use of water for irrigation. Originally it was planned as a channel scheme with about 68 miles of channelling to serve 60 farms. T recently asked the Minister for National Development a series of questions about this scheme. I asked him first whether the terms of the Act specified that the scheme had to be an open channel scheme rather than a pipeline scheme; in other words, whether the scheme could be a pipeline scheme in the terms of the Act. Secondly, I asked him whether the water was to be especially for irrigation or whether it could be used for a town supply if that town was on the perimeter of the irrigation area. Thirdly, I asked whether a time limit was imposed on the Tasmanian Government for the expenditure of the money. 
I asked these questions because there had been appreciable pressure from certain farmers to have a pipe scheme rather than an open channel scheme. When the full details of the open channel scheme were known to the farmers and the plans were finally completed, it was discovered that these channels would wind snakelike through dozens of farms, tearing them to pieces, criss-crossing some farms 3 times on the contour line and making a terrible mess of good land, cutting paddocks off from houses, carving farms up into segments and all in all producing a destruction of land that no-one originally contemplated. So action was set in motion to change this scheme to a pipe scheme. This proposal has been put to the Premier,  Mr Bethune,  by a committee of farmers and it has gained a lot of support. It was seen from the plans that the open channel scheme would emasculate many farms. The farmers claimed also that under this scheme a lot of water would be lost by evaporation and soakage. Incidentally, some farmers who are not even in the scheme are to have the channels put through their farms, and thousands and thousands of dollars will be involved for compensation to the farmers for the land taken up for the channelling. 
The Minister, in his reply to me, pointed out that the Act which was passed through, this Parliament specifies in the schedule attached to it that the works are to comprise, inter alia, the construction of a channel system to carry the water and that consequently it would not be possible to construct a pipeline scheme without a variation of the schedule. He said: 
You may be aware that there is provision in the Act for variation oi the schedule but I would not anticipate doing this unless I received  a  specific request from the Tasmanian Government. 
Then he commented also on the open earthern channels as compared with the pipeline scheme. He said:  in most cases it has been found that the value of the water saved in this way would not offset the additional cost of the construction by pipeline. 
Then he went on: 
When the National Water Resources Development Programme, under which this scheme is being financed, was announced by the Prime Minister it was stated that the purpose of the programme was to extend the conservation and use of water in rural industry. This has not been interpreted to exclude the provision of urban water supplies which may be a secondary purpose of a scheme, but in such cases the cost of works associated with urban supplies have been excluded from the amounts involved in financial assistance from the Commonwealth. 
In other words, it could be used for a town supply but it would involve an extra cost to the State government. It is not included in the money received from the Commonwealth. Then he said: 
There is no provision in the Act providing a time limit for the construction of the works or imposing restriction on the Tasmanian Government by way of time allowed for the spending of the grant. 
That is the $750,000 grant. He went on: 
It was however understood that the project would be completed within about 3 years. 
I comment on that point. Some of the farmers thought this scheme had to be completed in a time limit and they voted for a channel scheme because they wanted a channel scheme rather than no scheme. The time limit they thought was imposed pressured them into voting for the channel scheme when they would have preferred a pipe scheme. Now that they know, following my query to the Minister, there is no time limit on the expenditure of the money, many of these men have taken another look at the matter and are now saying that they should have a pipe scheme rather than an open channel scheme. The Minister, in his reply to me, went on: 
It should be borne in mind in discussing all of the projects being financed by the Commonwealth Government under the National Water Programme that the schemes are those submitted by the State Government- 
That is true -  . . and the Commonwealth Government has not in general interfered with details of the proposals. In the case of the Cressy-Longford Scheme the works as submitted by the State were agreed by the Commonwealth Government without any substantial changes. 
That also is true. If we now wanted to change to a pipe scheme from a channel scheme in Tasmania legislation would have to be passed through this Parliament amending the schedule to the Act. So it is not impossible to have a pipe scheme ; provided that the State Liberal Government makes the necessary approach to this Government. We could change over to a pipe scheme provided the finances were available, because a pipe scheme is more costly than a ' channel scheme- But how much more worth while would it be, and how much more satisfactory would it be to have the' water from the Poatina hydroelectricity scheme channelled to these farms through pipes rather than open channels? 
The advantages would be. as follows: All the water in the pipes would be useful; there would be no loss by soakage or evaporation as in channels. No compensation would be payable because there would be little interference to property. Clear water, as opposed to possibly polluted or turbulent water in open channels, would be available for domestic and stock use. Less maintenance would be involved than with a channel scheme. We would need 3 bailiffs employed all the year round to maintain the channels. Storage charges would be less. Less equipment would be required by farmers. We would be able to conserve large areas, including the highest and driest land, and we could extend the scheme to include 100 farmers with 46 miles of pipe as opposed to the present scheme which will serve 60 farms with 68 miles of open channelling. We would save an estimated 300 acres of land that would be taken up by channels. This land would return, say, $30 an acre annually. No fences would have to be erected and kept  in repair. No channel bridges would be required. With the channel scheme dozens of bridges would have to be built over the top of the channels at the expense of the farmer, and it would be a very expensive scheme for these men. 
Interesting statistics that have been worked out by a prominent engineer show that the pipe scheme would cost $1,218,840. I do not know the cost of the open channel scheme at the moment, but the total amount of money made available for it is $lm. So for an extra expenditure of, say, $250,000 we could have a pipe scheme, which would be much more satis factory and much more economic in the long run. It would serve 100 farmers instead of 60, and there would be only 46 miles of pipe as against 68 miles of open channel. In addition, the farms would not be cut to pieces by this snakelike channel running 68 miles through dozens of farms. I put this proposal to the Government this afternoon and I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for letting me mention it in the debate on this Bill. This scheme is connected with water resources and our total national water programme. I hope that if the Tasmanian State Government puts a request to this Government it will change the schedule and enable us at least legally to go on with a pipe scheme instead of the wasteful, ugly, long, winding, snaking, open channel scheme that is contemplated. 
Debate (on motion' by  Mr Corbett)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party have every right to speak on legislation concerning the wool industry. Thirty-three of the seats held by honourable members of this side of the House are rural or semirural seats, whereas the Australian Country Party has 22 and the Liberal Party of Australia has only 12. Many honourable members on this side of the House have had years of experience in matters concerning the wool industry, although we do not have properties. However, the fact that one has a property does not give one any particular rights or privileges to speak on this matter. This Bill is the high water mark of this Government's fumbling, hesitation and inaction. The Bill which is before the House tonight is as out of character with this free enterprise Government as spectacles are to a blind man. The decline in the wool industry has been in progress for about a decade, but it has taken this Government almost that long to bring down legislation for the establishment of a government selected and appointed wool commission to try to tackle the problem. 1 shall give some figures to prove how desperate the situation is in the wool industry. Figures have been thrown around loosely during the course of this debate. 1 propose to quote from an official document. The average wool price this week at auction has gone down to 26.19c per lb, which is equal to the 1946 level. The average price for this season according to the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers is provisionally 29.5c per lb, which is about 33-1/3 per cent lower than for the corresponding period last year. This is a fantastic fall in 12 months. Surely the Government must have known that it would happen. From all of the information available to it the Government must have known that wool prices were in a tail-spin, but it has taken this length of time to try to find some answer to the problem. Brisbane had a  Ti  per cent drop at the auctions. Japan bought freely in Brisbane. The United States of America also showed more interest than usual early in the series, but very little interest later on. It is only natural that Japan would buy freely at such a cheap price. Any country would. 
I have details of the average prices obtained in the capital cities. In Brisbane 92.94 per cent of the bales offered were sold at an average price of 25.37c per ib. In Adelaide 83.84 per cent of the bales offered were sold at an average price of 25.34c per lb. In Hobart 95.25 per cent of the bales offered were sold at an average price of 31.01c per Jb, which is the highest price obtained in Australia. In Launceston 89 per cent of the bales offered sold at 28.61c per lb. In Fremantle the price was 26.35c with about 90 per cent of the offering sold. At those sales a total of 150,797 bales were offered for sale. These prices illustrate the present tragic picture of the wool industry. 
There has been talk for many years of introducing a reserve price plan. A referendum was held 5 years ago on this very question and it was only narrowly defeated. Who defeated it? The big wool growers of New South Wales were responsible for its defeat. Tasmania supported the referendum and so did South Australia. The New South Wales Graziers Council put over a heap of propaganda and sent speakers throughout Australia to oppose the reserve price plan. That Council was responsible for the defeat of that referendum. In spite of the Opposition from that Council the referendum was almost carried. 
This reserve price plan is not a new thing. It has been talked about for many years. The Liberal Party of Australia has resisted it strenuously. The Australian Country Party has nervously asked for it to be introduced but there has been conflict and indecision within Government ranks over what to do with the wool industry. There have been very serious differences of opinion between Liberals and members of the Country Party. The Liberals have been responsible principally for the long delay in getting a reserve price plan before this Parliament. At long last with a rush like a gale coming through a door which has been opened suddenly the Government has in a spirit of panic, brought down this Australian Woo] Commission Bill. The bill was introduced yesterday and it is being debated today. How long is it since that has happened? The Government, of course, wants to get this Bill passed before the Senate election. This legislation will be one of the fastest pieces of legislation we have had in the time that I have been in this place. 
In spite of all the fanfare, this legislation is still only a skeleton of what we on this side of the House believe is necessary to overcome the unprecedented collapse of the wool market. The proposed scheme is only a voluntary scheme in the sense that growers do not have to sell their wool under it. The growers have to ask for assistance, as do the brokers. This plan could be a failure if it is not accepted by the brokers or the growers. We believe that the Opposition's plan, which is a total reserve price plan with acquisition, has teeth, depth and strength and is the only type of plan that could solve the vicious and catastrophic problems which face the industry at the present time. There has been collusion at auctions for years. We have studied the pie system and we have proved that to be so. It has kept the price of wool down, even back in the early 1960s. 
This week 25 new members are finishing their first year's service in this Parliament and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  is in his last year. This is a sad moment for him. There is only one such moment in the life of any member of Parliament - the last hour of the last day of his parliamentary career. All of us who have watched his career with interest, some from the sidelines and some right in the middle of the battlefield, certainly appreciate his qualities. He has been my opponent ever since I entered this Parliament, which was back in September 1946, just 6 months after the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  came into this place. 
In those days the right honourable member for Murray sat on this side of the chamber, and 1 only wish that he had sat on this side for a lot longer than 3 years. But in my first 3 years in this place I looked upon him as a terrifying character. The way in which he used to get stuck into the Australian Labor Party - Ben Chifley and all the boys - horrified me. I had not struck anybody like that before This happened in my first years in this place, I had led a quiet life previously. I used to sit where the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  sits now, and the right honourable member for Murray used to sit where the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  sits now. One day the right honourable member for Murray walked out after making a terrifying attack on the Labor Party. He told us that there was nothing good in any of us, that we were just a lot of no-hopers. That was early in my career in this place, and I had never heard such language used about anybody before. After he had left the House that day I noticed that there was on his desk a book which he had been reading. It was entitled 'Odd Man Out'. I thought that it truly described the right honourable member - he was a very odd man to me. 
But during the years the right honourable member for Murray has shown all of us that irrespective of his Party affiliations, he is a tremendous fighter for causes and for this country. I admire this about him as much as anything else. It has been said that he has been in the Ministry for 25 years, 21 of which have been continuous. This means that he has been a very lucky man - lucky because the Party to which he belongs and the parties which he has supported have won 9 successive elections. If they had not won those elections he would not have been a Minister for all those years. So this is one important fact to be remembered when reference is made to his long period in the Ministry. If a member is to continue as a Minister his party has to win elections and he has to be selected as a Minister by the Prime Minister. 
The right honourable member for Murray has served this country very well under 3 successive Prime Ministers. He has been an outstanding figure in every Cabinet of which he has been a member. That is my firm belief. We owe much to him, although we have not always agreed with him. He is a tough, tenacious, unbending, dedicated parliamentarian. We will miss his dedication. We will miss also his detailed answers to questions. Sometimes his answers were a bit long, but I always admired the fact that there was an awful lot of meat in them. To my knowledge, in the 24 years I have been here the right honourable member for Murray has never said in reply to a question: 'Put that question on the notice paper.' That is something he has never done. He has tackled every question. Often he has flung the ball back with a lot more spin on it than it had when it was thrown to him. We appreciate these things. I trust that his retirement will be a constructive, happy and relaxed one. I think that he must have the constitution of an ox to endure the gruelling life of a parliamentarian for 36 years. It is the toughest life that can be endured by anybody in this country. He has survived it, and he has survived it fit and well. I trust that he will have years of relaxation in his retirement and that he and his wife will really learn to live now that he is leaving this place. 
Recently after I had told a person, whom I had never seen before, that I was a member of Parliament and had given a brief outline of what a member of Parliament does, I was asked: 'When are you going to get out of it and start living?' 
Those words really hit me. I had never realised just what this life is like. We do not live; we exist. I hope that the right honourable member for Murray will start to live when he leaves this place. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. In respect of the SI 00m rural reconstruction scheme, is it a fact that a farmer must have 40 petcent equity in his property before he is eligible for assistance? If this is so, is the scheme designed for the elite, thus denying any assistance to a large proportion of soldier settlers besides thousands of other primary producers who could not be classed as uneconomic? Will there be an upper limit to the assistance? 
1 certainly commend the speech of the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  andalso most of the other speeches that I have heard on this subject. This is a unique debate. It is the first time in 38 years that we have had a debate on censorship. I think this must have been the fault of governments in the past; they have not had the courage to bring forward a debate on this critical, difficult subject. We will never agree on censorship. There will always be those who want more of it, those who want less of it, and those who want none of it. So. it is of no use honourable members fooling themselves that we will ever obtain unanimity. That is what makes the task of the Minister, who is a member of a government that is prepared to tackle censorship, such a difficult and onerous one. He is barraged by those who want him to be stricter and by those who do not want any censorship. Those who have vested interests with which censorship might interfere are opposed to him too. He is running a very difficult course indeed. Though I disagree violently with the Minister in regard to political ideologies, I commend him most sincerely tonight for the way in which he has tried to tackle this very onerous job. Several other speakers also have done so. 
I do not believe that because we differ with a man's politics we should not congratulate him when he does something good or something that is to the benefit of the country. The Minister has done that. He has taken the stuffiness and the secrecy out of censorship, and has brought it out in to the light of day. The Press has given his actions a lot of publicity. Members of Parliament may read banned books. I myself have not bothered to do this. The Minister has given members of this Parliament the first glimpse they have ever had of sections cut from films. Last year during the spring session of Parliament, honourable members viewed for about an hour and a half at the National Library Theatre more than 20 excerpts from censored films. Those excerpts would not have been seen by the general public. The Minister is to be congratulated upon these moves. In his speech of 11th June 1970, which initiated this debate, the Minister outlined some of the steps that he has taken. There are about 8 or 9 steps, with which no one could disagree. The very fact that he has initiated these changes will make censorship less obnoxious to the general public. 
What is the alternative to censorship in the form in which it is exercised in this country? The alternative is licence - unadulterated licence. I for one cannot possibly stand for that in any community. 'Freedom' is a limited term. We are limited in our freedom during every day of our lives. When driving our motor cars home from this building tonight we will immediately come under censorship - the laws of the road. We cannot possibly live in a community of complete licence. We must have some form of control. Of course, this means there must be standards. If we had no standards in our community perhaps the need for censorship would not exist. What would we have to censor? In our present community standards predetermine censorship; censorship presupposes the existence of standards. The community does have standards even though men may scoff at them, may try to deride them, and may try to reduce their importance. We still do not live in a completely atheistic community. Therefore in dealing with the whole range of our activities, we must have censorship of some form, for the very reasons which have been given tonight by my colleagues the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Deakin, without going any further than that. 
Censorship does not have to be heavy handed in its application. I do not think that the intention of the present Minister is to make it heavy handed. About 10 years ago I obtained from the Parliamentary Library a list of banned books and I proceeded to read the titles of 10 of them before my time expired. 
Yes, it was a best seller. Many honourable members said it was a pity that my time had expired. I think I could have obtained an extension of time if I had sought. Over 226 banned books were on the list in the Library in those days. Today there are perhaps 50, which is approximately a quarter of that number. This proves that a more senisble attitude has been taken towards the censoring of books. But I believe we will always find a few books in the Library that will not be permitted in the public book stalls. Honourable members talk about perversion. The men who write the books to which my colleague the honourable member for Hindmarsh referred tonight are obviously perverts themselves. Why should their trash and filth be spread through the land? Why should they be permited to affect the minds of our people, particularly the young? For these reasons, some form of censorship has to be maintained. 
Yes, unacceptable. With all these films and books that we have been talking about, parents have never lived in a. more difficult age in trying to bring up a family because of all the temptations that are thrown at children when they leave school and often while they are at school. I do not know what people who talk about abolishing censorship are going to tell their children. It is hard enough to rear children today with the present form of censorship without having it removed altogether. People who have no children have no right to talk about this subject at all. What do they know if they have never had a child to rear? Some of these people are often the most vociferous in this field of human behaviour. 
We have some responsibility to others in the community. One speaker in this debate made the statement that a particular book or a particular film would not affect him. That is a selfish attitude: 1 am all right Jack; never mind the other fellow. To me this is basic selfishness. We have a responsibility to the community; we have parental responsibility; we have educational responsibility. We do not live in isolation. What may not affect me could affect someone else, and that someone else could be a member of my family or a relative - someone very close. Therefore, what right have I to say: 'Because it will not affect me everybody else can be brought face to face with the same film or the same book'? 
The dignity of the human body is, I think, often overlooked. When the film magnate uncovers the female form in most cases he lowers the dignity of the human body. This is another angle on the presentation of nudity which is becoming so popular with producers of films. This trend has not hit television, as far as I can judge from the television programmes I watch, and I try to see as many as possible. But our films have definitely been inundated with scenes of nudity. There is a debasement of the human body because of the way in which it is treated by some of our money hungry film magnates. During the recent visit to Australia of the producer of the film 'Love Story' - a film without sex - I was pleased to hear that in America the swing is away from sex films. It will be interesting to see whether what he said is true or just a figment of his imagination. But we certainly hope it is true. 
The editorial of the Singapore 'Straits Times' of 4th February 1971 read: 
We have got to protect the community from the crank, the faddist, the bigot, the filth merchant, etc., as we have laws to restrain the thief, the murderer and the blackmailer. Where the censor cannot give ground is on those subjects that will either give rise to social dissension or promote cultural debasement. For him to achieve less would be for him to make a senseless sham of his role. 
Of course, that refers to his role as a censor. In a gallup poll in December last year 1,800 Australians were asked whether censorship on books . and films should be increased.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I try to listen to other speakers. I do not intend to go on if my colleagues try to talk me down. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member for Wills will remain silent. 
I listened to the honourable member even though I did not agree with him. I expect him to listen to me. 
The $64 question around the world today is whether Britain will join the European Economic Community. For 5 or 6 years this has been one of the most assiduously debated subjects amongst the six in Europe and in this country as well, particularly as Australia and New Zealand would be the most severely affected should Britain decide to enter the Common Market. I am making a prediction tonight that Britain will not enter the Common Market, and 1 make that prediction quite deliberately. I was in England last July to attend a parliamentary conference and I spoke to ordinary English people and parliamentarians at Westminster. I saw the House of Commons open with the new Prime Minister,  Mr Heath,  and the new Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Wilson.  Within a fortnight of the House reopening under new management 30 Conservatives formed themselves into an anti-Market committee. 
I came back from that trip and made a statement to the Tasmanian Press on 8th or 9th August in which I said that I did not believe that Britain would enter the Common Market because of what I saw and heard while I was in England. I made the prediction at that time, which was 7 or 8 months ago, that the Labour  Party,  which under  Mr Wilson  had done so much in negotiations for Britain's entry,  would,  when the crunch came and the final decision had to be made, become completely opposed to Britain's entering the Common Market. Millions of words have been written for and against Britain's entry, and many negotiators have taken part in European conferences on the matter, but the ultimate decision on whether Britain will enter the Common Market will not be made in Europe. It will not be made in Berlin, Brussels, Rome, Paris or in any of the 6 capitals of Common Market countries. It will be made in the House of Commons. Interestingly enough, in the last 7 or 8 days there have been 2 Press  statements  which have added evidence to my contention that Britain will not enter the Common Market. On 16th of this  month  we saw in the 'Australian* this heading: 
Market critics predict Wilson switch. 
The article stated: 
Labour MPs who oppose British Common Market entry are claiming that a weekend speech by the Opposition leader.  Mr Wilson,  indicates that .... ultimately he will join them. 
At present Labour's anti-marketeers can count on at least 4 supporters in the Cabinet, 
The article went on to state: 

 Mr Wilson is in an obvious predicament over the Market negotiations. 
There has been a strong swing against Europe in the Parliamentary Labour Party in which antimarketeers now claim a majority. He must already be pessimistic of securing a party, or even a parliamentary, vote in favour of entry on tha terms now conceivable. 
One possible escape route for  Mr Wilson  would be to allow his party a free vote. 
In this case, the pro-Europeans and the Labour side would outnumber the convinced Conservative anti-marketeers who would be prepared to vote against their government's recommendation. The result would be a government victory, hut the majority could be as low as 30. The Government would then have to decide whether it could take a historic decision on such divided views in the Commons and against public opinion. 
On 19th February, 3 days later, in one of our Australian papers this heading appeared: 
Labour warns Heath on EEC. 
The article from T. S. Monks stated: 
London, Feb. 18 - A blunt warning was given yesterday that the Conservative Government must not rely on Labour help to take Britain into the Common Market. 
This warning, by one of Labour's most senior leaders,  Mr James  Callaghan, marks another stage of uncertainty as to what will happen in Parliament, when it comes to the crucial vote. 
That will be in a year or two. The article continued:  lt adds to growing concern in European capitals on whether the Conservative Government is trying to get Britain into Europe without sufficient domestic support. 
Last weekend  Mr Wilson,  the Labour Parly leader, lift open the option of opposing British entry into the Common Market if the terms are judged to be onerous. 
Now,  Mr Callaghan  says that  Mr Heath,  the Prime Minister, will 'have lo find his own majority' on the issue from his own party. 
Whatever views the Labour Party may have are quite a separate matter' he said yesterday. 
This is taken by most political observers as one more sign that the Labour Party might turn right against Britain's going into Europe. 
Labour doubts are growing, partly because of the probable high cost of Britain's joining and partly because a majority of Britain's public opinion is against integrating with Europe. 
The Conservative majority in the Commons is 30 but there are 30 Conservative hardline antimarketeers. 
They are very significant words indeed. It is good for us out here where the effect would be so great if Britain did join, to know that the tide is running against Britain's entering the Common Market. if Britain's Opposition, as an opposition, decides to go against entry when the vote is taken and 30 Conservatives join with the Labour Party, it will be a neck and neck struggle as to who will win that vote, lt could go either way by 5 or 10 votes. The British people as a whole are utterly opposed to Britain's entry. How could a government make a decision that would be so rigidly and diametrically opposed to public opinion in an issue of these immense proportions? It would take Britain into Europe for the next century, because once she goes in she cannot get out. 
So I am again making a prediction on the evidence that has come to me that Britain will not eventually enter the Common Market because a move in this direction will be outvoted in the House of Commons. That is where the issue will be decided. It will not be decided anywhere else. If this happens Australia can breathe freely again, and probably so can New Zealand, because if Britain did go into the Common Market there would be a revolutionary change in many of our marketing schemes and much of our sales of foodstuffs in Europe and England would be cut off. To get our goods into the Common Market countries we will have to cross a wall, it can be called a tariff wall. In Europe they call it a levy wall, but it means exactly the same thing. If Britain enters the Common Market we will be in really serious trouble with the sale of products which are already not selling well. So I sincerely hope that my prediction at this stage will come true and that the British Opposition will come out in complete opposition to Britain's entry and that there will be enough anti-marketeers amongst the Conservatives to defeat the issue in the House of Commons. 
In the absence of the Minister for Shipping and Transport I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Apple and Pear Board booked space on the conference lines for 7 million cases of Australian export apples and pears for this season with freight fixed at $2.24 a case? Is the Minister also aware that the Board applied for space for 500,000 extra cases which will cost the grower $1 extra a case on top of the $2.24 a case, thus giving the shipping line another $500,000? As this extra freight is a gunattheirheads exercise and uneconomic to the growers, will the Minister negotiate with Israeli or Japanese shipping lines, or any  other non-conference shipping line, to lift this extra 500,000 cases which will rot if not lifted? I may say that the honourable member for Franklin supports me in making this request. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is not in the Ministry. I do not know why he has not been appointedto the Ministry long ago because he is an experienced man in rural industries and he has a very wide knowledge of the wheat industry, which is the subject of the Bill we are discussing tonight. 1 personally regret that the honourable member is not in the Ministry. He has been here long enough to have gained experience in this place, and if there are any changes in the Ministry before 1972 - he will not be required to serve in the Ministry after 1972 because we will occupy the Government benches then - I should like to see him appointed to the Ministry. What he said tonight deserves very close analysis by everybody who is interested in the wheat industry, including the Australian Wheat Board and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  who is in charge of this Bill. The honourable member for Moore gave a wide, comprehensive cover of the problems and difficulties facing the industry and of the hopes of the industry. 
I should like to stress two or three points in the short lime I have available to me tonight. Firstly, 1 criticise the Government for the interest rates which it is to charge the Wheat Board. They are quite outrageous. The Treasurer in his second reading speech set out the reason why this Bill has been introduced. He also pointed out that the Government proposes to charge the Wheat Board a rate of interest which is higher than the 5 per cent charged last year. He said: 
Bearing in mind the circumstances of the wheat industry, a rate of 5ยฝ per cent is proposed. 
He continued: 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $250m to make the loan to the Board. 
How will this loan be financed by the Commonwealth? It will bc financed by Treasury notes - in other words, by created money. Money will be created by the stroke ofa pen. The Treasurer also said: 
The expectation is that the loan to the Board in respect of the 1969-70 pool will again be financed by the issue of Treasury notes . . . 
I stress the point that this loan is to be financed by the Commonwealth using created money, but the Commonwealth will charge the Wheat Board interest at the rate of 5ยฝ per cent on the loan. Let us have a look at the figures which this brings to light. On $250m at5ยฝ per cent interest, the Wheat Board will have to pay in interest to the Commonwealth the sum of $13,750,000, which is $1,250,000 more than it paid in interest lastyear, because the interest rate this year has been increased by one half of 1 per cent. This is sheer, unadulterated, unashamed profit making by the Commonwealth. It is creating money out of nothingand is then charging$1 3,750,000 interest on the money. Inthe light of the rate of interest which the Commonwealth is charging the Wheat Board in this outrageous deal, Ned Kelly, if he were alive today, would be invited into the most glamorous drawing rooms. 
This Bill is making the Commonwealth an unadulterated money lender.It is lending money ata shocking rale of interest. In my opinion it is daylight robbery for the Commonwealth to do this to the Wheat Board - an independent body which is struggling to rescue the wheat industry from its present crisis. In addition to all the other problems which the industry is facing, it has to repay thisloan on which an interest rate of 5ยฝ per cent is to be charged. The higher the cost to the Board the tougher it will be in the long run for the badly submerged wheat farmer. That is my first criticism of the Bill. 
The second point I make is that the Wheat Board is having difficulties in getting a communication channel with Red China, or continental China as some people would prefer to call it. As a matter of fact, some members of the Board are going to Russia in the next few days to try to negotiate increased wheat sales with that country. That is a very good move. It is a funny thing that this Government recognises Red Russia, but it will not recognise Red China. Both these countries are Communist countries and both of them trade with us. But the Government refuses to recognise China politically in the councils of the United Nations. China does not exist in the councils of the United Nations, so far as this Government is concerned. Probably we are losing the opportunity to renew our wheat agreement with China because we refuse to recognise that country. 
Canada recognised continental China late last year or early this year - 1 am not quite sure of the actual date. But this is what has happened: The Canadian Wheat Board officials signed a $70m wheat contract with China 2 weeks after Canada's diplomatic recognition of China. I claim right here that this stubborn, pigheaded, conservative Government will cost Australian wheat growers possibly hundreds of millions of dollars in the next year or so because it refuses to recognise China. If the contract is not renewed I put the blame right at the feet of the present Government, and the Australian Country Party can say what it likes about it. The Country Party is prepared to accept all the benefits which flow from trading with China, but it is a part of the coalition Government and, to my knowledge, it has done nothing to put pressure on the Liberal Party in order to get the Government to recognise Red China. As I say, the Country Party does not mind selling our wheat to the Reds. 
What has China bought from us? Over the last 10 years China has emerged as Australia's major wheat customer. Since 1966 China has bought $500m worth of Australian wheat. At the moment the Australian Wheat Board officials have almost given up hope of being invited to Peking to negotiate a new wheat sales contract wilh that country. They have received no replies from China's officials to cables asking for the negotiation of a major new wheat deal. Last October the Australian Wheat Board twice cabled Peking requesting that an Australian delegation be invited to China to discuss the possibility of negotiating a new wheat contract. The cables were sent alter it had been announced that Canada had negotiated a new wheat contract worth S70m. Although members of the Australian Wheat Board are on standby to fly to China, no invitation has yet come to this country asking it to go and negotiate a new wheat contract. This is a mighty depressing outlook for the Australian wheat growers, whatever their political colour may be. 
As the honourable member for Moore truthfully said, the prospects of Australian wheat sales to China are depressing. It is reported that the green revolution has made China almost self sufficient in grain production. That may be another reason why China may not want to buy wheat from us this year. How silly it would be to suggest that their green revolution has been so successful that they could cut off all their imports from Australia. I do not think they would do so. They would phase them out over 2 or 3 years. So the reason for not renegotiating at this stage could be political. China has every right to be political. This Government has been political with countries whose politics it does not like. We should not blame China for saying: 'We are still an orphan in the Pacific as far as Australia is concerned. We do not even exist as far as Australia is concerned. Why should we go on trading with the Australians or buying wheat from them?' That is a perfectly natural reaction. 
A Si 10m wheat contract between Australia and China which came into operation early last year is on the verge of expiry. Australia is holding wheat stocks of more than 400 million bushels. Failure to gain a contact with the Chinese this year would mean a substantial reduction for Australia's wheat growers, whose incomes have already been heavily depressed by the introduction of quotas to curb overproduction. 
A contract was signed last year with the United Arab Republic to buy 38 million bushels of Australian wheat on extended credit terms provided by the Australian Wheat Board. Good luck to them. This is a sensible way to trade with these sorts of countries. But this contract is on the verge of being cancelled. The United Arab Republic has taken only 16 million bushels under the contract. When the Arabs signed the contract there was a clause in it which said that they could withdraw from it at any time. The Wheat Board naturally agreed to this. The Arabs are taking the advantage and withdrawing from it, as far as I know. 
Another point 1 would like to put to the Wheat Board is that there are 2 countries 1 could recommend that it look at in regard to selling wheat. One is Nigeria. Nigeria is buying all its wheat requirements from the United States of America. I suggest that the Board should send a delegation to Nigeria to see what can be done about securing contracts for Australian wheat. The other country is Israel. I was there for 3 days last August and learnt that it is  a  large importer of wheat. I do not think that any of our wheat is going to Israel. If we can sell it to the Arabs why can we not sell it to the Israelites? Has the Government got anything against the Israelites? If we can sell to their enemies, the Arabs, let us even things up and see whether we can sell some of our wheat to the Israeli Government. 
They are three or four points I wanted to put before the House in this debate in relation to actual sales of wheat, which is the lifeblood of our primary industry. In the time remaining I want to express a, few thoughts about our coarse grains problem. The interesting thing is that for 50 or 60 years Australia has stressed that wheat is our main grain. The Government has done very little to encourage coarse grains, particularly for export. From the statistics that are available it will be seen that the world imports of coarse grains over the last 7 years have risen more than half as fast again as world imports of wheat. This is significant. Why does the Government not take note of this trend and get in on this development? It could mean that our farmers could grow less wheat and more coarse grains. The honourable member for Moore referred to the protein level, but this need not prevent the development of the coarse grains industry in Australia to meet the hungry markets for coarse grains. One of those markets is Japan. 
Japan is a major customer for other Australian products. There is enormous expansion in that country in the importation of coarse grains. Its imports of coarse grains have been growing more than 4 times as fast as its imports of wheat and flour. Australia should expand its coarse grains production and exports, particularly to Japan and perhaps to other Asian countries as well. Japan is using precious wheat not only for human consumption but also for fodder for its fast growing animal population. Let me quote some interesting figures on animal production in Japan. Japan's dairy cattle will have increased between 1964 and 1976 by 259 per cent. Its beef cattle will increase in those 12 years by 118 per cent. The number of pigs will increase by 290 per cent. Poultry for eggs will increase by 142 per cent and poultry for meat by 808 per cent. To give honourable members an idea of the total, by 1976 the number of poultry will be 106 million, which is an increase of 808 per cent on the 1964 figures. Japan's current use of sorghum for feedstuffs, as distinct from foodstuffs, is 60 per cent for the poultry industry, 25 per cent for pig raising and 15 per cent for the beef and dairying industries. Japan is taking 19 per cent of our wheat exports. China is taking approximately 25 per cent. Britain is taking 14 per cent. There is a great market in Japan for our coarse grains. That country is using 60 per cent of its wheat imports from us for fodder for livestock. This is a mighty expensive process, I would imagine, for any importing country. 
Let me illustrate quickly what our own coarse grains production is like. Between 1964 and 1969 it rose from 6 per cent to 7.9 per cent, a 1.9 per cent increase in 5 years. Our wheat production increased by 60 per cent in the same period. I believe that production of coarse grains such as sorghum, barley and oats should be increased to meet the market in Japan, which is seeking pelletisation of lucerne from Tasmania. I am sure that Japan would also be interested in importing sugar beet pellets for its livestock industry. Japan has to feed its stock almost the whole year round as #ie Japanese islands are so heavily populated and as there is so little agricultural country. The average farm in Japan is 2 acres. This indicates a tremendous capacity for the importation of feedstuffs for livestock. I really believe that Australia could help the wheat farmers, many of whom are also growing other things. They are not wholly wheat farmers. They are sheep farmers, they grow oats and barley and they have cows. The majority of the wheat farmers in Australia would be mixed farmers. Many of them could cut down wheat production slightly and go into coarse grains production. 
I would like to see bulk storage introduced, or at least promised to our farmers if they are prepared to go into coarse grains production. Let us build up coarse grains to the same level as wheat, which has gained all the benefit from bulk handling and so on. As far as I know, at this stage coarse grains enjoy very little silo habitation and are far behind wheat in storage capacity. These are constructive suggestions that I have made tonight. I have not been critical. I hope that they will be analysed and that in good time, before the farmers of Australia have to go out of business entirely, some of them will be implemented. The total indebtedness of our rural industry today is $2,100m. If that is not enough to frighten any government into action,  1  do not know what is. Maybe members of the present Government parties are beyond frightening and, despite those sorts of figures, are more frightened about who will be Prime Minister tomorrow. 
 I cannot give as good a performance as that given by my friend, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I propose to speak on an entirely different subject. He dealt with his subject very ably indeed. This afternoon I want to take the Postmaster-General's Department to task for its indiscriminate closing down of country non-official post offices. This does not concern the city people at all, but it is a very vital problem for the country people. Hundreds of nonofficial post offices across Australia have been shut down in the last 2 years. In their place the roadside delivery system has been introduced. In my electorate alone more than 40 non-official post offices have been closed down in 2 years. Although I, along with others, protested in the case of the most blatant of these closures, the Department has gone ahead and closed them just the same. At this moment it has a complete obsession with diminishing post office services throughout the country. It is spending so much money on sophisticated services for Australia that it is now removing its basic services - the grass roots services^ - to the detriment of thousands of our citizens. 
I accuse the Postmaster-General's Department of waging war on our country districts. Not only have post offices been shut down, but hundreds of telephone cabinets have been taken away from country areas, thus disrupting vital communications in those areas. This outrageous erosion of offices and cabinets from farming communities has likewise eroded many essential services from these districts. The electorate of Murray, where we are fighting an electoral battle on Saturday, is one such electorate which is already suffering the loss of postal services. Our primary producers, already harassed by falling prices and spiralling costs, face the loss of their post offices as well. In every case a post office in a community in a country district is a bulwark of its solidarity. There were 9,000 non-official postmistresses and postmasters in Australia before this closure began and I think the number is down to about 7,000 now. They give the human touch within this great public enterprise which is in danger of becoming more and more imper sonal and distant from the ordinary people it serves. 
The personal touch of postmistresses and postmasters and their concern for people and not just for postage stamps or profits has provided a centre of helpfulness for every centre lucky enough to have a post office in it. Most communities in isolated areas revolve around their post office. It is the heartbeat of every district. 1 It is the focal point in time of trouble and tragedy, disaster and death. To close down a post office is, to my mind, to rip the heart out of a district just as the vandals rip the telephones out of our public telephone cabinets. Does the Postmaster-General's Department cut the services in the cities and the towns? I have never heard of it and I have plenty of towns in my electorate. No, it is increasing the services for city people. The suburb of King Meadows in Launceston where I live is a good example. There are 4 telephone booths within a distance of 60 chains and in the country 1 cannot get telephone cabinets within a distance of 50 miles on tourist roads and other isolated roads where there is constant timber traffic with the danger of accidents. One can fight till one is black in the face but as far as the Department is concerned it will not put them back. The Department is ripping them out but it will not put them back. It could not care less. 
I claim that the profits that are made on these telephone cabinets in the cities could very well finance the retention of the cabinets in isolated country districts. Things are all out of proportion. I know that in my electorate many .districts have now suffered the loss of a telephone cabinet at the side of the road. The Department has refused to put these back on the assumption that there are people with telephones not far away. That is ridiculous. This takes us back to the Dark Ages. There were no telephone cabinets in the middle of the last century but then country districts got telephone cabinets. The Department scattered them around in strategic spots. That was done at the beginning of the twentieth century and now when we are heading for the twenty-first century the Department is ripping out telephone - cabinets. So country districts are definitely going back into the last century instead of on into the twentyfirst century. 
This is an outrageous attitude on the part of this huge Department and it has been going on since the present PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  took office. 1 do not know whether he has left the House but I told his Department that I would speak on this matter and I wish he had stayed in the House to hear it. But he always gives the same old reply that there is no profit in it. Everything has to be profitable in this great Department which is, of course, paying interest on its loan moneys to the Treasury. That, too, is something which the Labor Party has condemned for a long time. But the country people are people and they have a right to live and a right to services just the same as all the people packed into our cities. I claim that these facilities are provided for the use of people and not just to gain profits as such. . The ; Department is in danger of becoming ' a huge, impersonal and cold-hearted monster.- The countryside is being pushed back into the last century instead of forging ahead into the next. The Postmaster-General, ' before he leaves this place, should order a halt to the closure of any more country non-official post offices or the removal of any more telephone cabinets from strategic country districts. 
The roadside delivery service is the carrot which the Postal Department is presenting to the farmers for the shutting down of non-official post offices. But the farmer has to erect letter boxes which have to be big enough to take parcels. In wet weather there is a danger of damage to the contents of these boxes. I think that the farmer believes that the security of this kind of delivery is not good enough for important documents which are left in the letter boxes. Previously one could collect such articles at the post office where they were safe. Stamps and money orders cannot be purchased any more in the old way. These reductions in services are called an economy drive. But the poor old farmer has to suffer because of such a ridiculous, indiscriminate economy drive. The Department is always crying poverty. I shall give honourable members a sample of the receipts from postal services between 1960 and 1 969. The profit on postages rose from approximately ยง80m to $142m; money order and postal order fees went up from S2m to $3m; telephone rentals increased from $46m to SI 16m; income from telephone calls rose from $97m to ยง245m and income from telegrams went up from $9m to $14m. In 9 years the total income earnings increased from $251m to $567m. Of course expenses went up from $250m to S559m in the same time but the Department still made a substantial profit as is shown from the figures I have given. I think it is outrageous that country people have to suffer the loss of a service which city people and town people can have any day of the week. 
 I reject entirely the argument advanced by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  There is no similarity between this Bill and the taxation law. Clause 11 (2.) of the Bill states: 
A prosecution for an offence against this section may be commenced at any time within five years after the commission of the offence. 
That is, 5 years after the mistake has been discovered by the inspector. The taxation law refers to offences which are discovered much later after they have been committed. The honourable member for Mallee referred to prosecutions being commenced under the taxation law after a period of 10 years. Although something may have happened 10 years previously, the prosecution was commenced immediately the offence was discovered. But under this clause in the Bill there could be a delay of 5 years before a prosecution was commenced against a grower who failed to carry out the terms of the clause. This is why I claim it is a terrible injustice to provide that a prosecution may be commenced at any time within 5 years. 
I want to ask the Minister two or three questions. Can he refer to similar legislation in which such an amazing and incredible provision is included? This means that if a person broke into a house and subsequently was apprehended, the prosecution could wait for 5 years before it brought a charge against him. What an outrageous concept. 
No, we do not want to let him off. We want him to be charged within 12 months of it being discovered that he has committed an offence. Within those 5 years the grower against whom a prosecution was commenced could die. He could be killed in an accident or he could die from natural causes. Will the Government then withdraw the charge against him because he is no longer alive to be charged? If the charge is not withdrawn on the death of the grower who has commit* ted an offence, will the grower's wife have the spectre of the prosecution hanging over her head for a period up to 5 years after her husband's death? These factors ought to be considered in a humanitarian way. No humanitarianism is shown in this clause at all. It is a vicious clause. There is no common sense about it. What the clause is telling the Committee and the country is that the Commonwealth's officers are so inefficient and so confoundedly lazy that it will take them 5 years to bring a charge against a person who has committed an offence. Let us assume that this Bill is passed in the next week or two. Let us assume that, during the next season, an offence is committed by a grower either by withholding information or by giving misleading information. If that offence is discovered at the beginning of 1972, clause 11 gives the Commonwealth until the beginning of 1977 to charge that grower with that offence. I believe that the Minister is a pretty capable man. i admire him. But if he permits a clause of this type to remain in the legislation I will have only half the respect for the Minister that I have now. 
Members of the Opposition wholeheartedly support the motion. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, every backbench member on the Government side should support it because at present there is a whittling down of the privileged time in which backbench members can speak in the Parliament. When I first entered the House in 1946 one hour was allowed for question time. This time has been whittled down toยพ hour. If I had my way question time would be increased again to 1 hour. Parliament has increased in membership over the years and it is ridiculous and outrageous that members of the Opposition should average 1 question every 9 silting days. This makes a farce of question time. The Prime Minister is arbitrarily reducing question time. In the last 6 days, as was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, question time has been reduced by 18 minutes. The Prime Minister is doing a great disservice to all members of the Parliament, although not so much to members of the Government Parties as to members of the Opposition. To the everlasting credit of his predecessor, his predecessor and  Sir Robert  Menzies, they allowed the full 45 minutes for questions no matter what happened earlier in the day with the presentation of petitions. 
The Opposition believes that it is a vital question that has been raised by the honourable members for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who were involved in the reduction of question time yesterday. We insist that the Prime Minister act as did his predecessor. We are not asking for more. We are asking only for the full time that is set down in the Standing Orders for questions - not 1 minute more, but not 1 minute less. I hope that the motion is carried to show that all backbenchers are united in seeking to retain their privileges. We do not have many privileges, but this is one we deserve to keep. 
In view of the success achieved by hovercraft in the Army transport services of many countries, including Vietnam, will the Minister for the Army have investigated the possibility of suitable hovercraft for Army use being accepted by the Army transport service in Australia and being constructed at the Commonwealth Aircraft Factories which urgently require orders? I asked the same question 3 years ago of  Sir Allen  Fairhall when he was Minister for Defence. 
First of all, I want to correct something that I said during the second reading debate on this measure. In referring to the levy referred to in the Dried Fruits Levy Bill 1971 I said in my speech that clause 11 provided that the 5-year period for prosecution would begin after the discovery of the offence by the inspector. That is not correct. The 5 years begins after the commission of the offence, whether the offence has been discovered or not. Of course, the date of the commitment of the offence by the grower may not be discovered at all. The offence may be discovered 2 weeks, 5 weeks or 1 year after it has been committed. But we on this side of the House believed that it was outrageous to have an offence hanging over the head of a grower for 5 years, and we said so, as our speeches reported in Hansard will show. 
When this Bill went to the Senate an amendment to the clause providing for that 5-year period was passed because the Australian Democratic Labor Party voted with the Australian Labor Party. Now the Government has compromised on 3 years. Evidently it has satisfied the DLP that 3 years is all right. The only reason the Government is now trying to make the period 3 years is that the DLP has agreed to 3 years. We do not agree to that period. As a Party we still oppose 3 years, and the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  seeks to have it changed to 1 year. 
It was pointed out in the original discussion of clause11 that 5 years could elapse after the commission of an offence before the offender  was punished.  However, the grower of the fruit could have died in the 5 years, or even 3 years, that elapsed between the time when he committed the offence and when his offence was discovered, making him liable to be punished to the tune of $200 if you please. His wife and family possibly  would  then have the onerous task of appearing in court to defend the deceased man who had committed an offence. Three years is still too long. 
The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  claims that the Department of Primary Industry would have to increase the number of inspectors to be able to bring all offences to book within 12 months after their commission. Where are the records kept? They would be inspected by the inspectors in the packing shed, nowhere else. How many packing sheds are there? There are not many of them. An inspector would only have to go through the packing sheds that have been established as part of the stabilisation plan for this industry. Every packer is also up for penalty under this Bill if he does not do his job correctly. Every packer is responsible for the payment of levy, which he has to get from the grower. Therefore the packer has the records of every grower in his area, and if a grower has not paid the levy all the inspector has to do is ask the packer: Which grower who has delivered fruit to your packing shed has not paid the levy? 
I thank the honourable member for Sturt. I feel that it is just an excuse to argue that the Department of Primary Industry would need a lot more inspectors if the period were reduced to 1 year. There are only 40 sheds through which this fruit passes. The offence that is being struck at by this clause is obviously the non-payment of levy. The packer is responsible for that, and he would know every grower who came to his shed who did not pay his levy. Why does the Department need 3 years to discover an offence like this when it has to inspect only 40 packing sheds? We still feel that this provision is an unfair and unjust burden upon the growers of our dried fruits. Therefore we still stick to what we proposed in our original amendment, that is, that the period be reduced to 1 year. 
The penalty is $200. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  read the clause but he did not read the penalty. This amount is a lot of money for growers who are struggling. We cannot understand the attitude of the Country Party, whose members allegedly support these growers in the electorates which they represent, in allowing the 3-year limit to be agreed to. The honourable member for Angas must be very careful whom he insults in this debate because everyone is a consumer of dried fruits. No grower tries to insult the consumer of his fruit. We even eat this fruit here from the tables in the Parliamentary Dining Room. So the honourable member for Angas has no right to insult the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is a very large consumer of dried fruits. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Dr Patterson's)  be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether he has anything to report concerning the strike of marine stewards, which is bringing Tasmania to her knees economically and industrially as 90 per cent of the State's trade is  done by shipping. Is there any likelihood of the strike ending today or tomorrow? 
I assure the House that I did hot call that quorum. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has intrigued us with his speech tonight. He was here with the former right honourable member for Murray for many years, but he never attacked him in the House until tonight, when the right honourable member is not here. I do not appreciate that attitude very much at all. The next thing I want to say about the speech of the honourable member for Moore is that he criticised the Tonkin Government in Western Australia by reading an article from a newspaper which stated that that Government had not yet fulfilled its promises to the blackmail group over there which blackmailed the Government. Yet it is only 10 weeks since the Tonkin Government was elected in Western Australia, while the previous Lib eral Government had been in office 14 years and had done little for the farmers. Therefore,  Mr Tonkin  has quite a while yet to go before he has to honour that promise. 
The Bill before the House has 3 major sections. It provides, for the distribution of $100m, firstly, for the purpose of debt reconstruction; secondly, for farm build-up in plant, stock and the like; and, thirdly, for the rehabilitation of those farmers who will be forced off the land. Briefly, I want to state the present condition of rural industry in Australia. The situation has not been as bad since the depression years of 35 years ago. The total indebtedness of rural industry in Australia today to banks, pastoral firms, hire purchase organisations and insurance companies totals $2, 100m. In 1935, when a royal commission was held into the wheat and wool industries, the total indebtedness of those 2 industries was ยฃ500m or $ 1,000m. At present the indebtedness is $2, 100m. This proves that the rural sector today is in financial chains similar to the chains worn by the convicts at Port Arthur 120 years ago. Of the 250,000 rural producers, 80,000 are earning less than $2,000 per year. 
In his speech, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  referred to the present state of the industry. I will quote 4 brief references from his statement. He said that some 20 per cent of wool growers were earning less than $2,000 a year. Farther down, as reported at page 2332 of Hansard, he said: 
The industry's net farm income in total has probably fallen from some $760m in 1966-67 to about $450m in 1969-70 and to $290m in the current year. 
That is a reduction of nearly $500m in a space of 4 years. A little farther on, he said: 
In the current year about one-third of the industry's average net farm income of some $3,000 per property is required simply to meet interest payments on existing debt. 
This is truly a tragic story, when $3,000 per property has to go just to pay interest and mortgage bills. The Minister is reported at page 2333 as saying: 
The export of wool will earn in the current year almost $600m. Even though this is some $400m less than in 1963-64, the peak year, since 1950-51 wool remains the single largest export commodity and accounts for about 15 per cent of the total export income. 
Those are a few illustrations of the plight of rural industry, mainly with reference to wool growers. I believe that other sectors of rural industry are in great trouble. For instance, in my small State of Tasmania the apple and pear growers owe Slim to exporters, banks, hire purchase companies and the like. The hop growers there are also being forced out of the industry by various factors, such as over-production, absence of guarantees and the importation by the breweries of extract hops from overseas. The apple and hop growers come within the ambit of this Bill. One could go into every State at present and find pockets of disaster such as this, with people on the brink. One wonders how farmers are able to carry on from day to day, as many of them are . burdened, worried, frustrated, discouraged, disillusioned, and weary of fighting a war that they cannot win. 
Whole families are endangered. Children will have their education curtailed and their future careers put in jeopardy. The health of many farmers will be endangered, as men who sold out a few years ago or who let their sons carry on the farm now find themselves back on the farm facing health troubles, financial nightmares and work without reward. That is briefly the picture of great areas of our rural scene today. We are heading rapidly towards many conditions similar to those that applied in the depression. 
The value of rural industries is immense. The total rural population working on the land in Australia is about 990,000, just under 1 million. Rural industries last year earned Australia $2,041 m in export income, or 48 per cent of our total export earnings. Therefore, this industry is well worth saving; if we do not save it, we do not save Australia. 
If rural industry goes into a massive decline, the nation goes into an economic tailspin. Those critical people of the cities who sneer at the farmers will find themselves, in their thousands, tramping the streets and looking for work if the rural industries of Australia suffer a massive decline and if there is a massive walk out from them. Let us not forget that. Many of the cynics and critics will be laughing on the other side of their faces if these industries go down the drain, because city people are absolutely dependent on country people, and country people depend on city people. 
The farmer, who is the grower of food, is absolutely dependent on the people in the city who eat the food, and those people who eat it are absolutely dependent on the farmer, who grows it. There should never be differences of opinion in this respect. There should be unity and a partnership and teamwork between the producer of food and the eater of food. 
The rural sector supports whole country towns, of which there are thousands in Australia. Rural industries maintain decentralisation of population. They feed the cities, maintain transport arteries of road and rail, and open up new territory, but the Government has its sights fixed on the mineral explosion, with its great export income, soon to rival that of primary industry. For instance, the main mineral exports for 1970 totalled $l,067m. The estimate of earnings from the export df minerals in 1980 is $3,374m. That, in 9 years time, will be at least $1,000 more per year than is earned from the export of products from rural industry. Perhaps it is no wonder that the Government is looking to minerals to fill the gap. 
The criticism of the measure is severalfold. For a start, it does not provide enough money. It is like feeding one meal a day to a person just to keep him alive. That is what this scheme will do. But in some cases that one meal a day might not be enough. It will be too little too lai for thousands of farmers. The distribution of the $100m between the States seems to me to be a very strange setup. We find that Tasmania is to receive a paltry sum of $3. 3m over 4 years, which is an average of only $825,000 a year. Although Tasmania is only small in area, there are many depressed farmers in the State. Victoria, which is one of the wealthiest States in Australia, is to receive 22 per cent of the amount allocated and New South Wales is to receive 32 per cent. Queensland, which is in a state of great distress, is to receive 16 per cent. It should be receiving 32 per cent, not 16 per cent. South Australia is to receive 12 per cent and Western Australia 14.6 per cent. I want to ask the Minister a question and I hope that he will answer it when he replies to the debate - if there is time to do so at 5 o'clock tomorrow morning. How was this money allocated between the States? What was the principle used to determine the various amounts? 
It was very good arithmetic if the States did this separately. 
I think that the Commonwealth got out of that matter very cunningly. The eligibility conditions will cut out at least 25,000 primary producers who will not qualify. These are the men who will be phased out of production under this scheme but who do not want to be phased out. The Government regards these men as expendable. They will not be able to meet the viability standards set out in the Schedule to the BUI. The scheme will make many big farmers bigger and will kill off thousands of small men who will be forced by banks, hire purchase firms and pastoral companies to sell out and get out. In northern Tasmania alone farmers owe $2m to one pastoral company. This company is carrying these farmers, but I wonder for how much longer it can do so. The scheme puts incredible responsibility in the hands of the State authorities set up to handle it. No other honourable members have mentioned this fact yet. 
What is a viable farm? The authorities have to decide that. What standards will they lay down to distinguish the capable farmer from the incapable farmer? Here is an illustration of the imponderables which the State authorities have to decide upon. Part II of the Schedule to the Bill, which refers to debt reconstruction, states.: 
Purpose 
To assist a farmer who although having sound prospects of long term commercial viability, has used all his cash and credit resources and cannot meet his financial commitments. 
Tests of Eligibility 
The applicant is unable to obtain finance to carry on from any other normal source - 
Of course, that is the first criterion. He has to be knocked back by a bank or by somebody else from whom he is seeking money. It continues: 
There ls a reasonable prospect of successful operation with the assistance possible under the scheme, the prime requirement being ability to service commitments, and to reach the stage of commercial viability within  a  reasonable time. 
That is another imponderable. Further on it states: 
Nature of Assistance 
Advances of additional funds for carry-on expenses, livestock and further property development, at reasonable interest rates. 
I detest these words in an agreement as important as this one. What are reasonable interest rates? Tonight we could conduct a competition on this House and we would receive about 50 different versions of what are reasonable interest rates. Why foi heavens sake could not the Bill have provided that the interest rate to be charged will be 5 per cent or 4 per cent or whatever it is, that is, to fix a set rate. A very large loophole is left in a very important piece of legislation. Further on in Part II of the Schedule to the Bill it is stated: 
Method of Operation 
In exceptional cases, advances for carry-on expenses and livestock may be made to a farmer who is not yet in immediate danger of losing property or other assets but who in the opinion of the Authority is likely to reach that position without such assistance, such cases being tested strictly against . the remaining eligibility criteria. 
These are the sorts of imponderables that are written into the Schedule. The Authority has to make the vital decision. What rule will operate to decide how much a successful applicant requires to keep going under the farm build-up section? How does the Authority decide when the property is too small to be economic? This Authority will have to be a committee of supermen. They will need to be psychologists, agronomists, economists, financiers and public relations experts. They will have to assess the values of properties, the earning capacity of land, the value of stock, and a farmer's viability. They will have to assess whether a farmer is a 'business' proposition and whether he has the capacity to survive even without financial help. 
I believe that the interest rates are too high. For instance, this Government thinks that under this Bill it is Father Christmas, but it is not. Of the $100m being provided over 4 years to 6 States, $75m will be made available as a loan bearing interest at 6 per cent. Only $25m will be made available as a non-repayable grant over 4 years. Therefore, the Commonwealth eventually will have repaid to it by the States the whole of that  $7 5m  plus interest of about $500,000. So it will make a substantial profit out of the deal. The Commonwealth, under this Bill, is giving away only $25m. This is outrageous. It is an insult to primary industry in Australia. Fancy the Government making a profit out of the loan which it is to make available to help these men. The interest rate for debt reconstruction to be paid by the farmer will be 4 per cent, with advances up to 20 years. Under the farm build-up provisions the interest rate to the farmer will be  6i  per cent. The States will obtain money for the cost of the administration of the scheme from the difference between the 6 per cent interest charged by the Commonwealth and the 6i per cent interest which the States will charge the farmer. 
I thought that they were to receive something from the rate of interest charged. 
I thank the Minister. I believe that the position ought to have been reversed - that the $75m, not the $25m, ought to have been made available as an interest free grant. Farmers will not get out or seek assistance to get out until all avenues have failed. They are the last to admit that they are in desperate straits. Their whole life has been on the land. I was born on a farm and I worked on a farm during my early life. My electorate, which covers half the island of Tasmania, contains more than 20 rural industries and for 25 years I have worked as the member representing those rural industries. I know - or I ought to know - the psychology of the farmers. Their whole life has been spent on the land. It is their life blood. They have poured out blood, sweat and tears in order to keep their farms going and to seek security. Not many of them are going to admit voluntarily that they are in such desperate trouble that they will run to the Government for help. 
The rehabilitation section of this Bill, which provides for the granting of a loan of $1,000 to help a farmer to get another job, is an insult. Other measures should be introduced in order to help rural industries. Firstly, the taxation concessions should be reviewed. Secondly, price control should be imposed on selected items. I would like to see control of wages and control of prices. Then we would stop inflation and the people would know where they were going. Money would be buying goods at fixed prices; the prices would not be changed every fortnight. Thirdly, a review of tariffs should be made to lift the burden off primary producers. The review should cover several imported items such as commercial vehicles, chemicals, drenches, and farm equipment which is unobtainable from Australian manufacturers. Fourthly, consideration should be given to the introduction of a mortatorium- - 1 say this quite seriously - in relation to this distressed section of the industry. Fifthly, a Commonwealth select committee should carry out an investigation into the fertiliser industry in order to dig out the restrictive trade practices that are being carried on by fertiliser manufacturers to the disadvantage of farmers. 
There should be an increase in the number of farmer co-operatives by which they could control the growth, processing and sale of their own production, thereby cutting down the high cost to the consumer. I believe too that a new development of farmer organisations in a 50/50 business partnership with the Australian Council of Trade Unions should be examined further in the fields of food and fruit processing. Such a scheme could cut the costs to the consumer and lift the contract price to the farmer because there would be no profit motive. In many of these fields the difference between the price paid to the farmer and the price paid by the consumer after the product has been processed ranges from 700 per cent to 1,000 per cent. Along the line from the paddock to the plate is where the great trouble lies today for the farmer. The men in between are getting the fat and the profits out of his production. The farmer receives a low price and the consumer has to pay a high price. One illustration of this is frozen peas. The farmer receives 3c a lb for his peas and the consumer pays 30c a lb, a difference of about 800 per cent. The farmer receives 27c a lb for his wool but when his wife buys knitting wool in a shop  she  pays for it at the rate of $5 a lb. The increase in the price of meat from the paddock to the plate is 250 per cent. These are the areas which we have to tackle as well. 
 You take your time. 
Can I say for my part I have' the gravest of doubts as to whether or not this Act - 
That is, the Trade Practices Act -  will be found to be within the, legislative power of the Commonwealth, and so in a very real sense we may, like the  caravin  in 'Omar Khayyam', be going towards the dawn of nothing: 
I do not know whether that is the case and whether we are going towards the dawn of nothing. A few States have passed complementary legislation, such' as Tasmania, splendidly represented in  this Parliament by my honourable friend opposite, the Opposition Whip. If this legislation . is the dawn of realism, it will be a tribute indeed to the skill and the understanding of the former  Attorney-General  ' when  he  appeared before the High Court to argue this case on behalf of the Commonwealth in what is known compendiously as the concrete pipes case. I think the House should not speculate too readily on the outcome of the High Court case, but  if  it is within power it will be because of the skill of my honourable and learned friend that the Parliament and the country can say: 'Well, here it is. The Parliament has power to legislate in this respect'. 
On this occasion I want to say a few rather, I  hope,  not altogether perfunctory remarks regarding  this  measure. When the Trade Practices Act was introduced  we went  through turmoil and agony. I think we sat all night on several occasions, and I think I had about 60 or 70 amendments, all thoroughly misunderstood, by  everybody.  I think one was accepted; I do not  know  whether that was an expression of exhaustion or of glee. What I did argue on that occasion and  what  I do argue  again  on  this  occasion is my impatience  with  setting up a tribunal that has. tremendous discretionary powers. I favoured the Barwick legislation because,  with  great respect to the right honourable and learned gentlemen, it was far fiercer  than is  the present trade practices legislation. It was entirely before a court. Now  this  is a tribunal, and we are dealing  with  a tribunal. I do not want to be disrespectful to  Mr Bannerman,  who is a most estimable Australian and a very wonderful man, but all those who follow  Mr Bannerman  may not be of the same kidney. 1 notice with interest that the AttorneyGeneral has said that the Government has the legislation under review. I want to say to my honourable and learned friend that I hope that when this legislation is under review he will bear in mind some of the implorings 1 made 6 or 7 years ago regarding the Trade Practices Act. My conspicuous gripes - I hope that word does not annoy my learned friend - related to the uncertainties in the legislation, particularly in section 50 dealing with the public interest. I am delighted to see that at least as far as this legislation is concerned the provisions relating to exemptions have a greater degree of certainty than have the provisions within section 50 of the Act. In other words they are not quite so subjective. It is a very difficult task to say to a tribunal: 'You must do a certain thing', and to put on those who constitute that tribunal the burden, the authority, the responsibility, in effect, to carry out their own individual views. Some may say that this is the task of a judicial tribunal, but the Trade Practices Tribunal cannot, in my view, be described as a judicial tribunal. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for La Trobe. I do not know why he had to spoil a personal explanation to this House by a statement such as the one he has just made. I explained to him quite clearly that he did not get a pair from this side of the House. The reason was that I was not asked to give him a pair from this side of the House. If he was paired in that very late division it was purely because the Government Whip decided to pair him with one of our chaps who was not here. I never made any statement about my Leader's statement such as that alleged by the honourable member for La Trobe. 
1 address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Government made any progress in arranging for shipping outside the conference lines for the shipment overseas of apples and pears, meat to North America and wool to Europe and the United Kingdom? ls the Minister aware that New Zealand growers of apples and pears pay 70c a case less than Tasmanian growers for apples and pears shipped to Europe and the United Kingdom because they are using shipping outside the conference lines? 
As a member of the Standing Orders Committee I will support the proposal to revert to the former pattern of sitting days. I also advocate a change back to the old sitting times, although they are actually not under discussion at the moment. We have tried the system in which the House sits 4 days a week for 2 weeks and is in recess for the third. This system came into operation on 13 th October 1970. I agree with those members who say that this arrangement has not been truly tried. I believe that the Tuesday morning of the second week, when we met on a Monday, should have been used for the purposes of Parliament. Committees could have been held at some other time or even could have sat when the House was in session. Many of our parliamentary duties are carried out while the House is sitting. I attended a two hourlong committee meeting yesterday which were held by members from this side of the House. Committees could sit while the House was sitting if there was a proper arrangement by the Whips to pair members attending meetings on joint committees. So I feel that the system of 4-day a week sittings possibly did not get a fair trial. 
The 4-day a week sitting arrangement would be much more advantageous for members from distant places, especially those from Western Australia, because they could stay in Canberra over the weekend between the Friday sitting day and the Monday sitting day. However, folk who come from Sydney and Melbourne can be home in three-quarters of an hour or one hour. Of course, they go home every weekend except when they have had to attend to committee work here. 
I would like to stress one thing about this Parliament. No parliament in the world has members who travel so much or so far to their parliamentary duties as do members of this Parliament. A Western Australian member who flies from Perth to Canberra at the beginning of a week travels almost the distance from London to Moscow. They fly the same distance back to Perth at the end of the week. That example illustrates the distances that members travel in Australia. So the Standing Orders Committee and the House have to work out a fair balance as between the time members of Parliament spend at home and the time they have to spend here. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said that our proper function is to be in this Parliament. 1 agree. But anyone who neglects his electorate will not be re-elected to this place. There we have it in a nutshell. No-one can neglect his electorate and survive in this Parliament. So what is the use of talking a lot of rot about what one can do in the national Parliament if one neglects one's home base. No army will attack a new area without consolidating its home base. No member of Parliament can survive in this place unless he does his duty as well as he can in his electorate. It is plain nonsense to say that this place is not important. None of us in this place would say that. This is the most important legislature in Australia, bar none. We will not underrate the work done here. 
The time spent by members in Parliament is time given to the nation's legislation which affects every man woman and child from Cape York to Hobart, from Sydney to Perth and from Brisbane to Geraldton. This place is vital in the parliamentary system of Australia. We all appreciate that all members in this Parliament are sincere and hard working, more so than we ever had in years gone by. Next month I will have been in this place for 25 years and I can look back over many Prime Ministers and even to the time when the Chifley Labor Government was in office. 
I hope so. I remember that 25 years ago Tasmanian members had to travel to Canberra by boat and train and they stayed the whole session here. Members now travel by plane and we can get home to our electorates each weekend not only for family reasons - and they are very important reasons - but in order to look after other matters. The people of Australia now demand that then member be available in the same way as they demand that their doctor be available to them. As a matter of fact, I think we are far more available than doctors. Indeed, some doctors will not come to patients any more; patients have to go to the doctors. 
The problems of the country have multiplied with the type of life we are living today. Life today has many more pressures and the problems have multiplied. The work of a member at home is a vital adjunct to his work in Parliament. We spend about 75 hours a week at our work. Not many of us in this Parliament would spend less. That total includes, of course, work done here in Canberra. Some 32 years after the 1939 Budget, which amounted to $200m, this Commonwealth has a Budget of over $8,900m. The intensity, extent and quantity pf the work here have trebled in the interval. Our work in our electorates also has trebled. Unfortunately we still have the same number of staff to help us handle this work - only 1 secretary. Members of the Opposition front bench have not been given any additional assistance. 
Just in passing, I believe that the Government should give consideration to creating a pool of 6 typists for the use of members of our front bench who have to research for and prepare important speeches and keep up to date with the Government on every issue with their field. But though the work has trebled our facilities have remained the same. Air transport brings us to Canberra quickly and takes us home quickly and I feel that because of the volume of work at home we must continue to have enough time to attend to our electorates. There is no doubt the 3-week cycle did crowd in on this. We could not spend every Monday and every Friday afternoon with our constituents and with a fortnight away things do mount up. This applies in electorates in which people have problems. Not every electorate perhaps has the same number of problems but we have to try and get a balance betweeen the time we spend at home and the time we spend in Canberra. The 3-day week is all right on the condition that we spend more weeks in Canberra. This is the secret. 
The old system involved 3 days in Canberra. We came up and started on Tuesday afternoon at 2.30 and finished at midnight on Thursday. This is what we are going back to. We sit on Tuesday afternoon and night, Wednesday afternoon and night and Thursday morning, afternoon and night. That is not sufficient time to handle all the legislation, as we found at the end of the last sessional period. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  mentioned a moment ago that we discussed 19 Bills in 22 hours. 
I would have finished a lot sooner, but now you have upset my thoughts. Why can you not keep quiet until I finish? Now I will have to forget all about that. 
I will sit down when I am ready. A lot of honourable members get up here and keep on speaking until their time is up. This is my first speech this session and no-one will stop me till my time runs out. 
That is how discourteous you were to me. I do not appreciate it very much.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I was speaking about what you said regarding the concertinaing of legislation at the end of the autumn sessional period. If we could spend more weeks in Canberra on the 3-day week basis we could get through the legislation in an even, orderly fashion. None of us would mind spending an additional 3 or 4 weeks here if we did not have to sit past midnight on any night and if the Government spread the debate of legislaton much more evenly as was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  after the fiasco at the end of the autumn sessional period. This is important and I would not vote for the 3-day week if we were not assured of spending more time here to deal with the legislation which, as I have said, has trebled in quantity in the last 20-odd years and in many respects is more important, too. The 3- week cycle did break down because so many honourable members had to go home on Friday afternoon. Some were unfairly criticised for doing this. As the Opposition Whip let me say that the Government Whip and I had to deal with all the pairs that this necessitated. We have to do this every day in fact, but Fridays were a nightmare. I am glad to be getting away from it because we used to have 13 or 14 honourable members on each side who needed to be paired. We had to (et most of those people go home at that time or they would not have arrived home on Friday night. For instance, if we did not let the Western Australians and the north Queenslanders go at 2 o'clock on Friday afternoon they would have had to stay the night and go home the next day and that is not fair. 
No, they would not. All the honourable members we had to pair on Friday afternoons had to travel long distances and we were doing it for sheer humanitarian reasons. On the matter of work I just want to make the point that we as members of Parliament are understaffed. When I was in the United States last year I checked the staffing arrangements very carefully. Every Congressman in the United States has 8 on his staff and every senator. has 14. Yet the moment any salary rises for members of Parliament in Australia are mentioned or even dreamed about there are critical editorials in newspapers throughout the country. Every time we increase expenditure to try and make ourselves more effective as members of Parliament the Press immediately starts a campaign against us and it is completely outrageous and completely mindless and without any knowledge of what goes on in other countries. So I make the plea that the Government should have a look at the staffing position again, particularly for our front bench members. I assume that the new Assistant Ministers will get a secretary - I guess that is understandable - and I think that our men on the front bench deserve secretarial help with all the work they have to do. So I will vote for the 3- day week hoping, firstly, that there will be no sitting past midnight because if this happens we will cause trouble using the Standing Orders. I think it is outrageous and wrong to expect honourable members who spend 14 or 15 hours a day in this place to sit past midnight. Secondly, I hope that we are given more time to consider legislation. 
 I address my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of the fact that Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, paper manufacturers in Tasmania, have put off today 113 men at its Wesley Vale plant, in addition to 150 men at its Burnie plant - as was referred to by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon 3 weeks ago - 'because of lack of orders due to imports of paper, can the Minister assist this company by restricting imports of foreign paper? Has the Minister had an opportunity to study the submission supplied to him by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon indicating record imports of foreign paper for the year 1970-71? 
The PostmasterGeneral's Department is the largest enterprise in Australia, public or private. It has an annual turnover of $ l,O0(m and at present a staff of 109,962 which will rise to 112,000 by 30th June next year. Several of our big private enterprises in Australia could be put together and they would not equal the turnover of this enormous Department. We believe that it should operate in the form of a corporation detached altogether from the Public Service and autonomous in its operations. That is how it will operate when the Australian Labor Party comes to office at the end of next year. With the proposed increases in charges for postal services and telecommunications encompassed in the 2 Bills before us today postal services are now coming within the luxury class. For instance, just have a look at the increases on this occasion. 
After 1st October before a person can even make his first telephone call it will cost him $50 for the instrument to be installed in his home or office. That is an increase of 20 per cent. The telephone rental is to be increased by 14 per cent and the cost of posting a letter by 14 per cent. These are the 3 main charges. Interestingly enough, over the last 2 years, these rates have gone up as follows: 40 per cent for postage services; 67 per cent for telecommunication services; 38 per cent for telephone rentals and 33 per cent for television and radio licences. How can the people stand increases at these levels? I feel that a lot of them will re-think their whole attitude towards postal and telecommunication services when they realise the full impact of this legislation before us today which the Opposition has to oppose. 
The financial position of the Postmaster-General's Department is very interesting. The details are recorded in the very well prepared document 'Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme 1971-72' under the heading 'Trading Results'. Last year there was a loss of $25m on the postal side of operations and it is estimated that this year there will be a loss of $17m. On the telecommunications side, there was a profit last year of $23m and it is estimated that the profit this, year will be $53m. Taking these 2 services of the Post Office together there was a loss of $2m last year and it is estimated that this year there will be a profit of $3 6m. On these figures no one can say, even taking into account the small loss last year on these 2 services, that the Department is in such a sick condition that it has to lift its charges by such an outrageous percentage at this time. This is why we cannot possibly understand the thinking of the Government on the proposed increases. 
The Postmaster-General's Department has a tremendous range of activities to carry out. It is an enormous department to administer. There are some wonderful officers within it. Over all the years I have had something to do with the Post Office its servants generally speaking - and in less than a fortnight I will have spent 25 years in this Parliament - have been a wonderful bunch of fellows. There is a wonderful lot of womenfolk, in this Department too. As this Department gets bigger the more impersonal if is inclined to become just as the new international airport at Tullamarine is so impersonal compared to the Essendon Airport which we have known for many years. The bigger a company becomes the less interested it is inclined to become in people as people. The people become units, they become statistics and so on. I only hope that as this great Department grows with an expansion in population it will retain personal contact with its own staff. This is terribly important. 
The advance from the Government Treasury in the next 12 months will amount to S255m but the PostmasterGeneral's Department will have to pay back tb the Government $142m in interest rates on loans for capital development. I think this is the Achilles heel of the Post Office today. This was not the case when the Chifley Government was in office. It has been outrageous that successive Prime Ministers from Liberal Governments - not successive Postmaster-Generals because our friend, the present Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  has held that position through many prime ministerships - have placed on the Post Office as a whole this outrageous impost of paying interest rates on money borrowed from the Commonwealth itself. It is a case of taxpayers being charged twice - paying taxes to the Government which lends the money to the Post Office at high interest rates and then paying higher postal charges. It is no wonder that charges will streak into orbit for the next decade because of the increased interest charges this Department will have to meet. I have only just found out from officers of this Department that the interest rate charged is the current long term bond rate at the time the loan is made to the Postmaster-General's Department. The current interest rate is 7 per cent. 
It is completely outrageous for a Government to charge one of its own departments 7 per cent interest on its money. As I have already said, it is the Achilles heel of this Department. If this Department had not been charged this excessive interest rate in years past, postal charges today would be within the reach of every person in the Commonwealth who wanted a telephone, who wanted to send a telegram, who wanted to make a long distance telephone call or who wanted to post a letter. But because of this interest rate which is being charged the Department these rates go up and up and less and less people will use the services of the Department in the future. I cannot stress over much the attitude of a government that will charge one of its own departments this excessive and outrageous interest rate of 7 per cent. 
I would just like to mention some of the effects that will accrue as the result of these increased charges. I am not blaming officers within this Department who have had to instruct their Minister and who have put these suggestions to the Government and to the Cabinet because with the heavy loans which the Department will have to get from the Commonwealth its officers have to cover themselves and make sure that they keep within a reasonable profit level. I am criticising this Government, the Cabinet and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for allowing such a state of affairs to exist. The effects of these higher rates will, as I see them, be: Firstly, there will be fewer applications for the installation of telephones in the next 12 months. 
One company in Victoria intended to decentralise and build a substantial factory in a town in north-western Victoria but when it worked out the expense that would accrue as a result of the new postal and telephonic charges it cancelled the project. It is a terrible situation when a company decides not to decentralise because of the excessive Postal Department charges that will accrue. What is this country coming to when people will not move their industries from our cities because of this one factor? This has never happened before in our history. This is a new element indeed in the race to the cities. Secondly, there will be cancellations of telephone services in private homes. People will have their telephones ripped out, not because they want to, but because they will be forced toThirdly, less use will be made of telephones which are retained. Fourthly, sick people will hesitate to get a telephone installed because of the great cost involved. It is the sick people who have to have a telephone. Federal members of Parliament have many invaild pensioners in their electorates and the doctors of some of these people insist that they keep in touch with them by telephone. I feel that in the future because of these excessive increased charges many sick people will be without telephonic communication with their doctor directly from their own home. 
Fifthly, there will be a great reduction this year in the purchase of Christmas cards. We in Australia use very considerably the Christmas card system to communicate with our friends. Millions of cards are sent each year. This will not be so this Christmas. Already I know many people who have said to me that their friends will not be hearing from them this Christmas and I can well understand their reason because over 100 cards are sent from my home each year. These increased postal charges will reduce considerably the number of cards sent this Christmas. Sixthly, there will be less correspondence by letter and the total revenue will be accordingly reduced. 
Seventhly, as my friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has just finished his speech said, country people will be hit the hardest by these rising costs. They are already hit by rising costs, but they will now have the rising cost of communications superimposed on all the other rising costs of production. Consequently, their financial position will be worsened. 
These are some of the effects that I see arising from the higher rates. Overall revenue could go backwards instead of forwards, in spite of the increase in the population. I believe that had there been a reduction in some of these charges the revenue would have bounced upwards quite considerably. One comes to a time when there is consumer resistance to increased prices. That is a time which is coming for the Postal Department. 1 suggest that, in view of these increased costs to the private telephone user, the Government should fix an annual cost levy and make any amount paid in excess of that levy tax deductible. This privilege is enjoyed by business firms in the form of trading expenses. I believe that the Government should now consider applying that principle to the private telephone user. 
I want to criticise the mania for the closure of non-official post offices throughout Australia. In my electorate alone 35 non-official post offices have been closed in the last 3 years. This has left the country denuded, in many ways, of its old facilities. The letters are now being left at the letter boxes along the road. This method is not always satisfactory. The Department also has pulled out the public telephones at those post offices and has not replaced them. In many country districts in my State the public telephone was a great boon; but it is not there any more. The distances between country telephone booths are becoming longer instead of shorter. When the departmental officers are asked the reason for not retaining public telephones they say: 'We do not think it would pay'. Fancy making that the criterion for having a telephone out in the country districts where there are tourist highways and the like and where there could be an accident and no telephone for people to use. By contrast, in the Kings Meadows suburb of Launceston, along Hobart Road there are 4 public telephone boxes in one mile. 
In regard to the section of the Bills now before us which deals with television, although advertising is the life blood of television or what keeps it alive, 1 believe that much of the advertising of cigarettes, detergents and beer is not only glamourised but completely untrue. There should be some kind of standard for truthfulness on television. Whoever heard that beer was good for people? Why do not the television advertisers give us the other side of the story - not the glamour story that we see on television but the other side of the story at the back door of beer drinking? We never see that side of the story. I believe, as the experts tell us, that cigarettes and alcohol are just as dangerous narcotics as the real narcotics, which we do not have advertised on television at this stage and which 1 hope we never will. This is a very serious problem. At a service in the East Bentleigh Methodist Church yesterday one of my colleagues, Rev. Crookes Hull, made a very strong statement about drinking being as bad as drug taking.  His  statement was reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' this morning in these terms: 
Alcohol was as harmful as any narcotic drug, the Rev. A. Crookes Hull said yesterday . . .   Mr Hull  said that by scientific definition alcohol was a drug and was no less harmful than any narcotic. 
On the authority of  Dr A.  A. Bartholomew, psychiatric superintendent at Pentridge Gaol, alcohol is the biggest factor in crime,'  Mr Hull  said. 
In modern society alcohol has assumed frightening proportions' . . . 
Misleading advertisements associating luxurious living with drinking alcohol should be banned, Federal and State authorities had a duty to tell people the truth about alcohol. . . . 
There are 300,000 problem drinkers - including alcoholics - in Australia and not enough is being done to counter this. if there were 300,000 known to be hooked on any other drug, there would be a public uproar'. 
But there is no public uproar in relation to alcoholics. I agree with every word he said there. 
Now let me say a few words about a way of cutting costs within the Postal 
Department. I suggest that the Department have a look at plastic piping which is now being manufactured in Australia. It could be used as well as copper or asbestos piping for at least one-third of the cost of copper. Plastic piping is guaranteed for at least 40 years; and ยฃ-inch plastic piping is sold at approximately 9c a foot, but f-inch copper piping is sold at approximately 32c a foot- Plastic piping is now manufactured by the Gaydor company in Sydney, Perth and Launceston, where its factory was opened last Friday by the Tasmanian Minister for Industrial Development. I urge the Department to look at the use of plastic piping - a new manufactured article - in an effort to cut its costs. 
Finally I wish to warn the Department about an electronic device which is now on the market. It can be set up in a car, the car can stop outside a meeting hall or a home and the device can be directed at a window. By this means a conversation inside that hall or home can be heard outside in the car. This opens up very grave consequences for the society in which we live. It could develop into an outrageous invasion of privacy. T believe that the Department should have a quick look at this new device because one thing that we value in our democracy is the privacy of our own homes and if spies can get at us by using this device we have no more privacy and a very important feature of our democratic life has been destroyed. I just sound this note of warning to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and ask him to see whether his officers can make sure that the use of this device is forbidden or controlled within this country. 
The Budget is not solely an annual record of expenditure and estimated receipts for the coming financial year. It is the most powerful economic weapon in the hands of a government and this powerful economic weapon will decide the fate of all Australians during the next 12 months. It will decide also the level of security to be enjoyed or otherwise by every family in Australia. No more powerful weapon is wielded by a government than its annual Budget because, through it, a government works out its economic theories and its financial policies. Therefore, it is the concern of every Australian to try to understand the Budget. In trying &lt;o understand this Budget, we in opposition are convinced that in endeavouring to deflate the economy, which seems to be the only alternative that this Government has in mind to combat inflation, the wage earner and the family are the real victims. As a result of the hammer blow of this Budget, the worker on $60 a week will pay in increased charges the equivalent of one week's wages extra this financial year. The main increased charges are those on personal taxation, petrol, radio and television licences, cigarettes, postal and telephone services and chemist dispensing fees. 
This Budget is designed to hold down excessive expenditure in order to control inflation and yet keep the body politic alive and healthy. I believe that it is far too deflationary and already there can be seen the effects of this Budget on the economy in the 3 months since it was framed by Treasury officials. In its clumsy attempt to combat inflation, the Government will increase unemployment everywhere. Already, the sad decline in rural industries is adding to the quota of unemployed in Australia. On top of this, the squeeze on manufacturers will further aggravate the situation as I will point out shortly. After all, inflation is to be preferred to deflation. In a deflationary situation, thousands of people are out of work which means that less food is sold and therefore the farmers suffer as consumption declines. The demand for every conceivable item that is used in a home, that is worn, etc., is depressed the moment there is a state of vast unemployment. So, inflation is much to be preferred to deflation. Of course, when saying this, one must weigh the effect of inflation on the fixed income earner. In this sense, inflation is like a thief in the night for it means that rising costs must be borne by people who do not have rising incomes. In that respect, inflation is a menace but when taking the overall picture it is preferable to deflation. 
Massive unemployment is criminal in this modern world and it is creeping up again on all countries with alarming suddenness. At present 950,000 people are unemployed in the United Kingdom and several millions are out of work in the United States of America. The wage and salary earners are always the victims of anti-inflationary measures. Will this Budget do what it was designed to do? I do not think so. I think that even in the period since it was introduced, it has been proved that the Budget has not done what it was supposed to do. The effects are quite frightening as has been shown by 2 recent surveys which were published in this country on 9th September, only last Thursday. The quarterly survey of industrial trends by the Bank of New South Wales and the Associated Chambers of Manufac tures of Australia showed that manufacturers had experienced many of the elements of a recession in their activity over the past 3 months. Figures of anticipated new capital expenditure by industry issued by the Commonwealth Statistician showed that manufacturing industry expects to cut back sharply on its investments over the 6 months from July to December this year. Economic observers say that this shows the Government has blundered and miscalculated in its Budget strategy because the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  predicted an upsurge in private spending and so introduced restraints in the Budget mechanism to counter this. But the upsurge did not eventuate and the effect of the Budget was to shatter business confidence and once that is shattered, things become serious. Manufacturers, already feeling the effect of the squeeze in February, became even more pessimistic. The ACMA and Bank of New South Wales survey said: 
Manufacturers' outlook for planned capital expenditure in the next 12 months is the most pessimistic since 1961. 
Of course, the credit squeeze was introduced in that year. The gloomy outlook from this major economic indicator is backed up by the Commonwealth Statistician.  His  official figures suggest manufacturers' spending on new capital equipment will rise by only 2 per cent over the next 6 months. This compares with a rise of 13 per cent in the 6 months to June this year, which represents a decline of 11 per cent from the beginning to the end of this year. Australian manufacturers employ 1.4 million people - about a third of the Australian work force - and when their capital spending is cut back it causes a multiplied slowing down of economic activity within this large sector of the economy. 
According to the ACMA and Bank of New South Wales survey, which as I said was published last Thursday, only 38 per cent of manufacturers were working at a satisfactory full rate of operation. This is the lowest proportion since the survey began asking this question in 1964. Even more disturbing to the House and to the country is that according to economic observers 40 per cent of those surveyed expect the general business situation to deteriorate in the next 6 months. Only 14 per cent of those questioned expected an improvement. Economic observers therefore say that stagflation psychology has taken a grip on the manufacturing sector of our economy, with quite frightening results. Therefore, the Budget was unnecessarily cautious and deflationary. 
The price paid is unnecessary unemployment.  Mr Snedden's  wage bogy, described as 'a powerful upthrust of costs stemming largely from large wage claims relentlessly pursued,' was not backed up by wage statistics. Official figures issued after the Budget showed the average weekly earnings for men in the June quarter at the smallest rate of quarterly growth for 2 years. 
Yet, the Treasurer claimed that the upsurge of wage increases was one of the reasons why he brought the hammer blows down through his Budget. The statistics show that he is miles out in his thinking. The wage increase in that June quarter was the lowest for 2 years. 
Economic observers expected the effect of wages on costs to ease. They say other indications are that the Budget's demand bogy was another unnecessary fear. 
The survey which has just been completed shows that 2 out of 3 manufacturers in Australia are operating well below capacity. I feel that the results of this survey are frightening when it is considered that they come only 3 months after the Budget was drafted. The article to which I have referred states that obviously, the Government now must take early action to get manufacturing rolling forward again. The sooner it does so, the better, because our economy depends upon it. Economic observers say the problem facing the Government now is when to stimulate the economy. It will have to act before other Budget measures take effect. 
The Government will not do so speedily because that would be an admission that the Government was at fault in the Budget that it presented. The Government might do so by indirect methods, quietly and slowly, over the next few months to counter the deflationary effect that the Budget has had. 
That is right. It should resign while there is yet time. This survey presents a very frightening picture of the situation that exists only 3 months after the Budget was put into final form by Treasury officials. 
The next matter with which I wish to deal is shipping and its effect on the Tasmanian economy. Unemployment in Tasmania has risen to 1.69 per cent, the highest level in Australia. Nearly 3,000 are out of work at the moment. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, the biggest paper manufacturers in Tasmania, has sacked 263 men in the space of some 3 weeks. That is about one-fifth of its total work force. It has done so largely because of competition from imported paper. Its paper, by the way, is first class writing paper and not paper for the printing of newspapers. Newsprint is manufactured in the southern part of my electorate at the big Boyer mills at New Norfolk. 
The unemployment situation in Tasmania is worsening because of the fact that the Australian National Line has increased freight rates by approximately 25 per cent in the last 12 months. The ANL carries 85 per cent of Tasmania's imports and exports. Therefore, the effect of such an increase on our economy is enormous. But the amazing fact about the ANL is that, since 1957, its total profit has been $27m. In only one year did it suffer a deficit. When this happened, it pressed the panic button and freight rates increased by approximately 25 per cent in the year following its first deficit. That deficit occurred largely because the ANL entered the Japanese-Australia trade, not because of any losses on the Tasmanian run. The adding of this freight increase to the cost of goods imported and of produce exported has had an enormous effect on our economy. This strangulation effect is showing itself already in that for one thing, it has discouraged new industries. 
The Senate established last year the Senate Standing Committee on Primary Industry, Secondary Industry and Trade. Its first inquiry concerned the Tasmanian Shipping Service. That Committee went into this problem. To me, its report of 105 pages is most disappointing. The Committee tells us little that we do not know already. It certainly has not recommended that a freight subsidy should be paid by the Commonwealth Government to assist Tasmanian shippers and the Tasmanian economy. It is vital to our manufacturers and our primary producers that they enjoy a competitive status equal to that of their mainland rivals. The more freights rise, the less chance Tasmanian manufacturers and primary producers have of competing with their mainland rivals who enjoy road and rail transport alternatives that Tasmania does not have. 
Already this Government is paying a shipping subsidy, but not to Tasmania. Looking through the Budget documents, I discovered that, in the last 5 years, our Federal Government has paid $1,101,000 to subsidise the South American shipping service. 1 remember this shipping service being established, but I had not looked at it in recent years and quite overlooked the fact that it existed on a Commonwealth subsidy. If the Commonwealth can do that for the company that operates that service, why cannot the Government do the same thing with respect to ANL services between Australia and Tasmania? After all, the ANL is a government line. The Government has been hiding the fact of this subsidy. One must study the document Public Authority Finance - Commonwealth Authorities 1970-71' to discover that little piece of evidence. 
My next point concerns local government which is not dealt with in this Budget. Local government is overloaded with responsibilities and is starved for finance right throughout Australia. It must meet high interest rates in respect of many of its borrowings. The amazing fact is that about 23 per cent of rates collected by local government authorities is being used up to pay for loan charges. Rating upon individuals has almost reached saturation point. I wish to comment on one or two interesting points in this respect. Rates today cost Australians $4.43 for every $1 that they cost 20 years ago. For every $1 paid in rates even only 2 years ago, each ratepayer now pays $1.15. For every $1 that councils owed 20 years ago, they now owe $8. Councils had to use 21.8c in every $1 of their rate revenue, not to provide new services or to maintain existing ones, but to service debts. This figure is higher in many individual cases. 
It is obvious that a new look approach must be adopted with respect to local government which is the grass roots government in Australia. There are approximately 925 local councils and city councils In Australia. The Commonwealth, 
I think, should introduce some sort of loan council for local governments. It should adopt the same approach to this type of Government, which is the basic form of government, as it does to State governments. Local government is the form of government that is closest to our ratepayers and electors. I do not think that it is right that ratepayers should be required to pay higher and higher rates for the services that they need. I believe that town sewerage and town water schemes should be handed over to the State governments and thus taken right out of the hands of local governments altogether. If these 2 items alone were removed from their control, local governments could survive. If these great increases in costs continue local governments in this country will be strangled. I think that the Labor Party when it comes into government will do something about setting up a loan council for local governments. We will consider creating the money for that loan council to commence operations. The loans will be made to the local government bodies after annual consultation with the authority that is set up so that they may be put on a proper business footing financially. 
I agree. We will consider it, anyway. 1 turn finally to tourism. This matter does not come specifically within the terms of the Government's Budget, but I wish to say one or two words about it. Every person who visited Australia in 1967 spent an average of $300. Spending by each visitor to Australia has risen now to an average of $400. In 1969, Australia earned $116m from tourism. It is estimated that, by 1975, income from tourism will increase to $300m. It is expected that approximately 700,000 visitors will come to Australia in that year. It must be recognised, I believe, by any government, that development of tourist potential is the world's biggest single business. In fact, tourism on the international level is now the largest single item in the trade. 
We have only one. We do not have one in the north. In fact, in 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Turnbull)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to  8  p.m. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has a lot to answer for. He commenced his speech by eulogising the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  but halfway through his speech be began to criticise aspects of this legislation in no uncertain terms,, especially the guaranteed 4.4 million bushels for export. In the Committee stage the Opposition will move an amendment seeking an increase from 4.4 million to 7.5 million bushels. We on this side will naturally expect the honourable member for Murray to vote with us on such an important amendment. This is the only way in which he can give effect to his statements. In other respects the honourable member is in agreement with honourable members on this side in expressing many doubts about this scheme. This is a beginning. It is an historical piece of legislation. This industry is one of the last major export industries to come under a stabilisation plan. The tragedy is that this was not done 5 years ago. The Government allowed this industry to get into a state of absolute crisis before it was prepared to introduce such a scheme. 
I am the Secretary of the Tasmanian Labor Party Rural Committee which is a 75 per cent farmer committee. That committee put forward a scheme to an Australian Labor Party conference 2 years ago and it was accepted. The basis of the ALP stabilisation scheme for this industry has already been written into the ALP's rural policy. Why has this Government waited until this industry was on its last legs before introducing the proposed scheme outlined in this legislation? We welcome this scheme. However it is not a full-blooded stabilisation plan like other stabilisation plans introduced for Australian industries. There are serious gaps in this plan, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  expertly indicated tonight in his speech. Firstly, the guarantee for each variety of fruit is too low. Secondly, this scheme covers only 4.4 million bushels of export fruit when Tasmania alone exports at risk nearly 7 million bushels. The Opposition will seek to have this export figure of 4.4 million bushels raised to 7.5 million bushels. I point out that this has been a request by the Apple and Pear Growers' Federation of Tasmania, which represents 75 per cent of the growers in that State. Thirdly, this Bill fails to allow for all changes in the cost of production, and this is a major weakness. Only a portion of total production will attract the annual stabilised price for each variety of fruit and the Bill does not lake into consideration the most important factor, freight variations. Fourthly, it does not make the Federal Government responsible in any way for freight increases. In other words, there are no clauses in the Bill which says that the Commonwealth will underwrite freight increases, and unless this is provided the stabilisation scheme is utterly meaningless because the guarantee will be partly wiped out by increased freight charges at any old time. When it is known that 60 per cent of the growers' cost per bushel is freight then the paramount and critical effect of freight on the industry is vividly illustrated. 
No other Australian export industry is so vulnerable to changes in freight charges as the apple and pear export industry, because 60 per cent of its costs are freight costs. If a grower is to be forced to pay an extra 50c a case, as is being sought by the Salen shipping combine at the present time, this will lift his freight per case to $3.10. With other basic costs such as handling costs, insurance, commission, pruning, spraying, inspection, fertilisation, cartage, etc., added to the $3.10 the grower will be out of business given the average price of $5.50 a case that was obtained in England last year. So the grower would have to get nearly $6 a case at least in England for his fruit even to balance his budget, without making any profit at all. When one considers the tremendous importance of freight rates and the influence they have on the apple and pear industry it is amazing there is no provision in the Bill to cover freight charges. The last increase that was sought was of 25.45 per cent. So far the Apple and Pear Board has refused to accept it and the shipping lines have refused to compromise. At this moment, therefore, there is no movement either way. The question is in abeyance and has to be decided very shortly. It would lift the freight charge by 50c a case if the Board accepted the demands of this nonconference shipping combine, if I can call it that. 1 found in the Budget, papers a remarkable piece of information. During the last 5 years this Government has subsidised the Australian-South American shipping service to the tune of $1.10lm and it would not come to the party when Tasmanians asked it to subsidise the shipping freights between Tasmania and the mainland to help counter the recent big rise imposed by the Australian National Line. That is just in passing. There is an urgent need for a vital reorganisation of the industry and an entirely new approach. Old methods cannot meet today's challenge from competition, from overseas demand for quality fruit, from the urgent need to cut handling costs, from shipping problems, marketing, packaging and presentation. New ideas are necessary in order to cope with these demands and these challenges. Changes vitally required include firstly the stabilisation plan we have before us now., although when Labor comes to office the scheme will be boosted and expanded to a full-blooded stabilisation scheme, not the piecemeal one that it is at the moment. However, this plan is vital as one of the new elements in the industry. Secondly, we desperately need one marketing authority, operating not only in Tasmania but in each of the other States, marketing fruit overseas. There is one in New Zealand and one in South Africa and both are working successfully for the industry. 
In Tasmania alone there are 19 exporters of fruit. Could a more confusing situation than that exist? All are competing against each other. The Grant Board of Inquiry recommended in 1970, a year ago this month, that one marketing authority be set up. Its  chairman  was Professor J. Grant, of the Tasmanian University, and the members were  Mr A.  P. Calvert,  Mr L.  Cox,  Mr C.  B. Hewitt,  Mr W.  A. Smith and  Mr R.  F. Walsh. Its main recommendations are on page 11 of its excellent report, which we have studied. I will read some of them because they should be written into Hansard. They are: 
That the Authority have the sole responsibility for the export marketing of apples and pears on behalf of Tasmanian growers. . . . 
That the expertise of those at present engaged in the apple and pear export trade be retained by the Authority appointing consenting companies from among the present Licensed Exporters as selling agents on a commission or other agreed basis. ... 
That the title to all apples and pears accepted for overseas export from Tasmania be vested in the Authority and that such fruit shall become the absolute property of the Authority free of all encumbrances. . . . 
That where fruit is accepted by the Authority for export overseas was previously subject to  a  bill of sale, mortgage, lien or other incumbrance, the producer be required to give notice of such prior encumbrance to the Authority and the Authority may negotiate with the parties for the repayment of the debt from the proceeds of fruit sold, after the Authority has recovered its seasonal advance to the grower. . . . 
That the Authority make limited advances to growers to cover the cost of spray materials, fertilisers and packaging materials upon terms determined by the Authority. . . . 
That the fruit acquired by the Authority be part of the security offered for advances from the Rural Credit Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia and that this security be supported by a guarantee by the Tasmanian Government if this is required. . . . 
That for each variety, count, market or other significant characteristic which the Authority regards important, it may operate a separate pool to which the proceeds will be credited and from which payments will be made to growers on the basis of the quantity of the fruit supplied. . . . 
That the Authority have the power to organise the assembly and the shipment of fruit and to negotiate contracts for the provision of shipping to carry fruit to overseas markets. . . . 
That the Authority be empowered to participate in any scheme for devaluation compensation, industry restructuring, stabilisation or income support arranged by the Commonwealth Government. . . . 
I will not read the rest of the recommendations because I have not the time but there are 4 other clauses which show how comprehensive this Authority would be if it were set up. At present the Tasmanian Government will not set it up. It is talking about 1973 but by that time there will be no industry to organise. The Opposition condemns the Tasmanian Government tonight for its failure to implement a scheme that was suggested in recommendations made 12 months ago by this Board of Inquiry which that Government appointed. We must have recognised and selected agents to handle the export of our fruit and its marketing at the United Kingdom and Continent end. That is most important. On Friday last, 1st October, the Board made a. momentous decision to issue only one licence to a consortium of exporters for the coming season. This is a step in the right direction and will have the effect of bringing the 19 exporters together to act as one body. Here is the germ of the idea of one fruit exporting authority. I congratulate the Board for its courage in bringing down this revolutionary decision last Friday. 
There must be stabilised shipping freight rates for the industry. I do not have time to explore this subject any further except to say that the recent increases demanded by the non-conference lines are nothing short of piracy on the high seas so far as the Australian fruit industry is concerned. The unitisation of fruit must be fully implemented as the only successful method of getting fruit to the ships and away. Only 9 per cent of our fruit was unitised in 1970. This year, 15.5 per cent was unitised and next year it is expected that 40 per cent will be unitised but by 1973 or 1974 ali fruit must be unitised as a great cost saver. Further, there must be one brand instead of 150 brands. At present 150 Tasmanian brands are being exported. This is disastrous and confusing. It slows down loading and out-turn and causes endless delays and frustrations when ships are being unloaded. 
Stabilisation of containers is necessary as at present 27 different types of containers are being used in Tasmania. This set-up delays the stowage of fruit and its handling and unloading overseas. I believe that the provision of bulk containers is the answer for each variety. In a few years, there will be only one brand of fruit and it will be all exported in bulk. Therefore, with the changes that I have proposed - one brand, a standardisation of containers, and one marketing authority with centralised packing sheds under authority impaction - it will be possible to reduce the costs of handling fruit by 31c a bushel. This saving in costs could be the blood transfusion that could save the industry. 
We need new markets in Asia because the old markets in Europe are on the way out, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out. What will we do when or if Britain joins the European Economic Community? I understand that at its conference last week-end the Labour Party in Britain decided to oppose wholesale Britain's entry into the Common Market. I anticipated this a year ago, and I still think the proposal for Britain's entry could be defeated in the House of Commons. However, we need new markets, such as in the Philippines. Unfortunately, credit arrangements between Australia and the Philippines are poor and we may have to institute a barter system whereby we can ship our fruit to the Philippines and receive goods in return. Japan produces 65 million cases of fruit annually but still imports millions of cases and we must get into that market. China has a huge potential though it grows a lot of fruit of its own. We have not explored that market yet. There is no doubt that trade will shift from Europe to Asia in the next few years when the United Kingdom joins the Common Market. Finally, in Asia we need State trade commissioners as well as Commonwealth trade commissioners. 
Yes, and Western Australia. It is not enough to have in these eastern countries Commonwealth trade commissioners who are supposed to be working for the States. They are not. They work for the Commonwealth as such and not for the individual States. For a start I believe we should have State trade commissioners in Tokyo and . Singapore. To my mind, this is so important that I foresee the transfer of the Tasmanian AgentGeneral from London to Tokyo or Singapore in the next 10 years, for he will be useless in London if Britain enters the Common Market. An act of statesmanship would be to transfer his office to Singapore, which is the fourth largest trading port in the world today and which is growing every week." We should have a State trade commissioner in Singapore and in Tokyo, covering the whole- of Asia and selling State goods. We should not have only Commonwealth officers selling Commonwealth exports. If it h too costlY for Tasmania to institute this scheme perhaps it could, co-operate with South Australia and establish a South Australian and Tasmanian partnership in Singapore or Tokyo. A year ago Western Australia established a trade mission or Agent-General in Tokyo on which it is spending $55,000 annually. This is money well spent and it will be returned a thousand-fold over the years. 
No, I do not.. I honestly do not think that Commonwealth trade commission officers have the same interest in States as State officers would have. I am quite sure of this. Therefore, it is imperative that we establish trading posts and a trading voice for Tasmania in Asia. 
What a tragedy it is that we do not have our own overseas shipping line. Half of the present problems in the fruit industry would not have arisen had the legislation introduced by Ben Chifley in 1949 been implemented, I was here in 1949 and spoke in favour of and voted for the proposal to create an overseas shipping line. Four months later the Labor Party was defeated at the polls and the first Menzies Government did not implement that legislation but let it lapse. If Australia had established its own conference line of overseas ships then, by now we would have 15 or 20 modern ships operating between Australia and overseas. These vessels would be owned by the Australian Government and the Australian people and this would have enabled us to have controlled freight rates over the years and given to our primary producers the protection they needed from the sea bandits, the freight bandits and the Philistines of the conference lines who have had us by the throat for so many years. If we had our own overseas shipping line we would not have had the crisis we have today with our fruit exports. . 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! Before calling the honourable member for Angas, I ask the honourable members for Grayndler and Dawson to refrain from audible conversation at the table. It is very difficult for Hansard to hear the member who is speaking. 
One of the great weaknesses of the Bill is in this clause. For instance, as my colleagues have probably said, the support price was fixed in October 1970 for the 1970-71 season - approximately 15 or 16 months before. There have been too many changes in the cost structure between the fixing and the operation of the support price. We feel that the Bill, because it is not based on what we call a genuine Bureau of Agricultural Economics cost structure or cost of production survey, is an inadequate Bill. There is only one way to fix a true support price and that is to have a complete BAE survey made. The Opposition, when it becomes the Government, will have an annual BAE support price production figure for the board or authority when it has to make its decision. With the great changes in freight rates this scheme could break down within the next 12 months if the American line that has just offered to ship our fruit at last year's prices is not accepted or if, in some other way, we are blackmailed into shipping our freight through the 5 non-Conference shipping lines that have been negotiating with the Board. So all in all we are baiting on a very sticky wicket in relation to the freight factor in the support price. I believe that the Government should underwrite changes in freight charges, unless it writes the variables into the support price. The Government cannot have it both ways. A support price that does not allow for freight variations will be a failure. So clause 7 should be postponed for the reasons we have given. Unless all variables are taken into account in the fixation of a support price it will be inadequate and a failure. 
I fully support the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and my colleague, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  I am sure that my colleague from Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  supports those remarks also. 
We are very united on this side of the House. 
I am sure that if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was an apple grower he would support this amendment forthwith. But, not being an apple grower, he finds it hard to assess what we are saying. 1 can appreciate this difficulty. After all, if one is born in an industry, works in an industry, makes one's living out of that industry, one can understand the finer details of it, while one who does not work in the industry cannot understand them. 
Clause 11 has a grim finality about it. It provides for a payment of 80c a bushel in respect of 4.4 million bushels. No provision is made in the legislation to vary either figure. As we have said, these figures were fixed a long time ago. There are variables in the industry for which perhaps we could never cater completely. But we should cater for and make provision for those with which we can deal. The Opposition is prevented by certain constitutional provisions from moving an amendment which would increase the amount of money appropriated with respect to this Bill. We would like to have moved an amendment specifying 7.5 million bushels instead of 4.4 million bushels. But such an amendment would alter the financial structure of this Bill. The next best way to achieve what we wish to do is to move in the way in which we have. We propose that the rate of a stabilisation payment provided for in sub-clause (2.) of clause 11, especially the figure of 4.4 million, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season. 
Heavens above, in asking for this provision we arc not asking for the moon. A review could be made for the next season and the Government could fix the same figure for the next year, if the present Government is still the Government then - God forbid! The insertion of this provision will provide a vehicle by which' a review may be made each year. What we have now is a 5-year plan. The Government's plans at this moment provide for the expenditure of $10m. But what will the state of this industry be in 5 years time? This legislation could very well end the industry altogether. In 5 years time the need for a stabilisation plan may not exist because the industry may not exist. I pointed this out in my speech last night. All we are asking for in this amendment is for an annual review of this provision. Growers in Tasmania in particular - but, I am sure, growers in the other States too - will be annoyed and disgusted if the Opposition's amendment is not carried. It is a simple amendment. The Bill fixes a figure for 5 years. None of us can forecast what the situation in the industry will be in 4 years time, 3 years time or even 2 years time. The period involved is far too long for these 2 sets of figures in the Bill to; have force. The period is far too long for such a variable industry as the apple and pear industry is, subject as it is to market, freight and other problems. 
Because, as the honourable member for Braddon has said, sales at risk now total nearly 7 million bushels, we say that it is absolutely essential to write the Opposition's amendment into the Bill so that the figure of 4.4 million bushels may be varied. Otherwise this provision will be like the laws of the Medes and the Persians, unchanging and unchangeable. The Government is setting out to show that it is better than all the weathermen and forecasters of the world. It is predicting that this figure will be OK for the industry for 5 long years. We say that this forecast is impossible to make. If this amendment is not accepted, it will be 'Goodnight, nurse' for the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  at the next election in Tasmania, even though his electorate is not an apple growing area. This Bill in its present form will close the door to any changes whatever in this industry for the next 5 years. The growers of Tasmania will not stand for that. 
I want to speak about Japan, its investment in and trade with Australia. The Japanese nation today is an economic colossus. Its gross national product is now the third largest in the world behind the United States of America and the Soviet Union. Is the investment by Japan in Australia a menace? Can we refuse it? Japan's investment can be a menace only if she is allowed to gain majority control or support in Australia. However, a partnership arrangement can greatly reduce and control any potentially adverse influence. 
Japan is now our largest trading partner and Australia is Japan's second largest trading partner after the United States. Twenty years ago Great Britain was taking over 50 per cent of our products; today she is talking about 12 per cent. Japan has replaced Great Britain and today takes 25 per cent of our total exports. She takes 54 per cent of our total mineral and metal exports which are now worth about $ 1,000m a year. Japan's total investment in Australia at the present time is only 2 per cent of all direct investment in Australia so, at this stage anyhow, there is no worry about Japan being a menace. 
The flow of trade between Australia and Japan is greatly in our favour. We bought 573m worth of goods from Japan in the last 12 months and have sold to Japan $1,1 88m worth, giving us a credit balance of $615m. Amazingly, this almost matches our trading deficit with the United States of America. In the last 12 months we sold to the United States $524m worth of goods and bought back $ 1,042m worth of goods, a deficit of $528m. 
I want to sound a warning, however. This Government has failed to control foreign investment. Already 24 per cent of industry in Australia is foreign controlled, and when we look at Canada which has 60 per cent of her industry under foreign control we can see what a menace uncontrolled investment could be to any country, for Canada's economy is virtually in the hands of foreigners. This is disastrous for any country. Japan's investment programme in Australia is to treble its present level in the next 2 years. This may sound frightening but let us have a look at the facts that I have been able to secure. Japanese companies plan to invest about $300m in Australian mining, agricultural and manufacturing ventures over the next 2 years. The programme will be the first phase of an investment boom. It will almost treble current. Japanese investment in Australia which is now about $120m. About $260m will go into big raw material ventures such as iron ore, bauxite, and alumina, coking coal and industrial salt projects. But the investment will reach into almost every profit-making field in Australia, from exploration and mining to the manufacture of ball bearings and microwave equipment.   
The 1,100 Japanese expatriates in Sydney opened a school with 88 pupils in a church hall some time ago. It moved into a $500,000 new building for 180 pupils at Terrey Hills in September. Japanese companies are ploughing at least $20m into major beef cattle and coarse grain projects in Queensland, Western Australia and New South Wales. They are also investigating plans to enter steel making, steel fabrication, machinery and manufacturing industries on a large scale. Already they have involved themselves in the manufacture of zippers, ball bearings, microwave equipment, matches and television sets locally. They are very sensitive to governmental and public opinion. The managing director of Mitsui and Co. (Aust.) Ltd, which plans to invest $120m in the next 2 years, said: 
Australia doesn't want to be just a quarry. 
We can all say 'Hear, hear!' to that sentiment for that is what we are rapidly becoming. He went on: 
It is our moral responsibility, as we are involved in a great share of Australian raw materials, to manufacture here in areas welcomed by Australia. 
I believe that to manufacture here using our own raw materials is the ideal set-up rather than exporting them to be manufactured and then brought back. They will be employing thousands of Australians in their projects and we would favour this. 
Mitsui has a 30 per cent stake in the $260m Robe River iron ore project in Western Australia and with C. Itoh a 10 per cent holding in the $296m Mount Newman project in Western Australia. Japan's biggest single investment may well be in steel making. Nippon Steel is considering an offer to join the American Armco consortium which hopes to build a $900m steel works at Jervis Bay. Sumitomi Shoji (Aust.) Pty Ltd is investigating a wide range of investment opportunities. With Showa Denko, it has a 37.5 per cent stake in the 300m bauxite and alumina project in the Kimberleys on which work will soon begin. The Japanese have a huge stake in the Savage River Mines iron ore project in my State exporting pellets to Japan. 
Japanese companies are planning to invest several million dollars in rural industries in order to supply their home market with coarse grains and prime beef. C. Itoh is involved in a 4-million acre coarse grain and beef cattle project in the Kimberleys with the Australian Land and Cattle Co. C. Itoh may take up a 25 to 30 per cent equity in the project which will cost at least SI Om in the next 5 years. Sumitomi will invest $300,000 - giving it a 10 per cent share - in the 200-square mile Lakeland Downs project at Cooktown, Queensland, for beef and coarse grain production. To quote a senior trade official: "The Japanese make ideal investors. They prefer to enter projects here on a 50-50 basis with Australian companies because it lessens their risks and gives Australians a stake.' 
I believe that this Government should at every opportunity encourage partnership investments, especially in manufacturing processes, with the Australian Government, if it enters the project, having a 51 per cent share of the interest. This set up should also apply where foreign investors join with an Australian company so that a controlling influence can be ensured. Otherwise it will get right out of hand as it has done in Canada. The tragedy of foreign investment in Canada should be an everlasting warning to the Australian Government. 
I want to make one final suggestion. I think we will have to investigate the possibility soon of creating an Asian common market with Australia, New Zealand and Japan the key figures in such a market and with China, the Philippines, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Indonesia forming the other partnerships, for we now have to face the big trade blocs throughout the world. We have the United States in isolation, the European Economic Community coming up and the Soviet bloc and we need an Asian common market bloc to safeguard ourselves against the power punches from these other great blocs that have been set up. This is economic realism. I believe that we should counter these forces in this way in the Asian area. They are interrelated and work together in many ways but we have to be strong enough to counter them otherwise we will be crushed out of existence. This is a suggestion upon which I think the Government should take action in the next year or so for I feel that out economic survival might depend on a partnership with the Asian nations in a kind of Asian common market. 
1 briefly want to support my two colleagues in what they have said about this piece of legislation. It could be said that we have waited many years for the chance of having a railway link from Launceston to Bell Bay, a distance of 23 miles. I thank the Government for finally coming to the party with the present Premier of Tasmania. However, I agree with the criticism made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that it is a very hard bargain. I want to refer to the interest rate that Tasmania is being charged on the amount of $2im. I believe that the current bond rate is 7 per cent. To charge 7 per cent interest on a loan for developmental purposes is, to me, outrageous. I wonder whether we will ever wake up to the fact that high interest rates are killing development, killing the farmers and the business community. Interest rates represent one of the worst enemies of this nation. 
Here we have this Government, which has every power to decide whether to charge interest or not, or whether to charge a certain interest rate, imposing an interest rate of 7 per cent on this $2*m. Over 30 years Tasmania will pay approximately $6m in interest to the Commonwealth for this loan of $21m. To me this makes Shylock one of the world's greatest gentlemen. Indeed it makes Ned Kelly a thorough gentleman in a dress suit with a bow tie and tails. He was an amateur compared with this Government which charges outrageous interest rates for development loans, for water schemes and for railway lines. 
I am not beating around the bush when I criticise the Government for making this outrageous interest charge. The interest rate has been so vicious throughout the history of railway construction in New South Wales that the New South Wales Railways Department still has not paid off the earliest capital raisings. New South Wales has paid millions of dollars in interest but it still has not paid off the original capital cost. To me it is criminal in this modern society for a modern Government to impose this vicious interest rate, so that money becomes the master instead of the servant. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said, Tasmania is at present paying $1,180,000 interest each year for railway loans. In addition to that amount of money Tasmania will now have to pay interest on the loan provided in this Bill. New South Wales is at present paying $3Sm a year in interest charges. Who is benefiting from these interest charges? In this case the Commonwealth will be the beneficiary. 
The honourable member for Bass pointed out that the Commonwealth has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on rail standardisation and in doing so it has used some of the Tasmanian taxpayers' money but Tasmania is now to receive only S4m, of which only $1.5m is a straight-out grant. This is all that Tasmania will receive for all the money which it has poured into the coffers of this Government by way of taxation over the years. When the late Eddie Ward was Minister for Shipping and Transport in the Chifley Government I asked him a question in this House when he first started planning for rail standardisation. I asked him this question: 'As Tasmania will not benefit from the standardisation programme for Australia will this Government make some compensation to Tasmania at some future date?' I was assured that a Labor Government would find some way of compensating Tasmania. After all these years there has come a chance to compensate Tasmania for missing out. The straight-out grant on this occasion should be $3. 5m and the loan should be $500,000. But Shylock- the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  - is sitting at the table with all his confreres behind him. They want to stick it into Tasmania. They are thinking: 'We will make them pay for this railway.' Tasmania certainly will pay for it; for 30 years it will pay for it - about $6m in interest alone. 
The construction of this rail link will benefit Tasmania greatly because Bell Bay is one of the finest ports in the world. It was discovered in 1948 when the Chifley Government established the aluminium industry at Bell Bay, on the eastern bank of the Tamar River in the north of Tasmania. Bell Bay has developed into a fantastic port with tremendous shipping facilities. It is situated in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Bass. There is a great industrial complex at Bell Bay. The aluminium works of Comalco Ltd now produce approximately 70,000 tons of alumina each year. It started off by producing 14,000 tons when the Commonwealth Government established this industry in 1948 as a CommonwealthState enterprise. Those figures indicate the sort of development that has taken place in this industry. Bell Bay is the only major port in the world which has not got a rail head. Transport to and from Bell Bay has been by road. The previous State government in Tasmania spent $lm in the construction of a new road from Launceston to Bell Bay to transport cargo to and from that port. The construction of this rail link will ease the pressure on the present road system. This railway line, as the honourable member for Bass said, will transport each year 3 million tons of wood chip raw material to the 2 great wood chip industry works near Bell Bay. The Northern Woodchip Company and Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd are each at present constructing a huge wood chip plant in the north of Tasmania. This rail link will be of tremendous advantage to Tasmania's economy. But what a price the taxpayers will have to pay. They will have to pay $6m in interest charges over 30 years. I blame the Government for imposing this Shylock interest charge on this loan. 
I do not and I never have. However, we on this side appreciate the Commonwealth State co-operation in regard to this matter. The Tasmanian Government has already let a contract lor the preparation of the route which will include the construction of 6 bridges and the clearing of the proposed track. According to the present Minister for Transport in Tasmania the laying of the line could perhaps be carried out by the Tasmanian Government Railways instead of sub-letting this work to some overseas or mainland company. I hope that this part of the project will go to Tasmania because it would be a great boon to the key people of Tasmania to lay the rails on the track prepared by the company whose tender has already been accepted for the project. 
I might add in conclusion that the cost of this track is now several hundred thousand dollars more than it was originally estimated. I suppose that delay in the implementation of this scheme has caused the increase in costs. This railway link will be a great boon to Tasmania. The project will require 80,000 railway sleepers. These sleepers are being treated at Longford, which is in my electorate, with special chemicals to preserve their life for 60 years. The preservation of this timber provides a tremendous amount of work for the Hickson's Timber Impregnation Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd at Longford. This is an illustration of what can happen when money is spent on development in a State. It helps to give new life to lagging industries. It helps to give a new strength to our economy. This project will employ approximately ISO men who are at present unemployed, and this will of course be of great benefit to the economy of the State. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister a question in his role as Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Acting Prime Minister aware that the Federal Government has subsidised the AustralianSouth American Shipping Line to the extent of $1,101,000 in the last 5 years? Therefore, in view of Tasmania's desperate economic position, with nearly 3,000 unemployed, contributed to in part by the Australian National Line's shipping freight increase of 25 per cent in the last 12 months with its consequent effect on industry, will the Government again consider a shipping freight subsidy for the Tasmania mainland shipping service? What is good enough for South America should be good enough for Tasmania. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that an offer was made a few weeks ago to the Australian Apple and Pear Board by an American shipping company to lift a substantial quantity of next season's Australian apple and pear crop at  a  freight rate comparable with last year's rate and in completely modern ships? Will the Government help to clinch such an offer which, if accepted, could save this industry from collapse in view of the 24.4 per cent increase in freights demanded by a non-conference shipping group in September, which increase the Board would not accept? Is the deadlock yet settled? The honourable member for Franklin is also interested in this question. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  to sit on his high horse with a halo round his head and to talk as he did a moment ago when a company is being pushed to the sidelines by broken promises and this is being laughed off by the Government. I am horrified at the Government's attitude to this vital matter. It is an outrageous decision to end a bounty 2 or 3 years before the promised time without any warning to a company that in 1968 invested Sim to fit itself to produce pyrites on the promise of assistance from this Commonwealth. The Government is now dishonouring its pledge. How can a company ever trust this Government again? How can anybody trust the Government again when it is depending on bounties and subsidies and assistance for its very lifeblood? 
The total cost of this bounty to the Government for the next 3 years would be about $lm. As the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has said over and over again, backed up by our shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the company is saving imports of about $5m a year. The honourable member for Angas talks about the economics of the matter. Here it is in a nutshell. It would mean a saving to the Commonwealth of $4m a year to maintain this industry at its present viability. I cannot support too strongly the criticism that has been levelled at the Government by the honourable member for  Sturt  (Mr Foster),  the honourable member for Braddon and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  today. These areas in which pyrites is produced are not in my electorate. They are entirely in the electorate of Braddon. I want to congratulate the honourable member for Braddon on his tremendous fight against this clot of a government as it was called a while ago. 1 think that is a pretty accurate description as far as its attitude to this matter is concerned. He has fought over a long period of time for these industries on the west coast of Tasmania. Now they are to be left hanging, and goodness knows what their future will be when this bounty is cut off so viciously and so suddenly. The whole morality of the thing is at issue. A promise is a promise, especially one from a government. When an industry invests on a promise or on a guarantee from a government it behoves that government more than ever to honour that guarantee to a company. 
Exactly. To honour an undertaking is the basis of morality in the community and the basis of proper dealings between man and man, community and community, government and electors as well as government and management of industry. So we condemn the Government today in the toughest language we can use. We cannot use the language we would like, because it is unparliamentary, to say what we think of its attitude. 
So I add my protest to those that have already been voiced. Why not postpone this clause until more investigation has been made? What do the leaders of this Government know about this industry on the west coast of Tasmania? Precisely nil. If it was not for what the honourable member for Braddon has told them they would not know anything. It is so serious that the Ministers concerned should visit the west coast of Tasmania, meet the management and have a heart to heart round the table talk about this before it does such a drastic thing as to wipe out this bounty in the way that is proposed. A sordid piece of history is being written by this Government this afternoon. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-- The story of the freight rates being charged for the shipping of Australia's 1971 apple and pear crop is a tragic one. The conference ships which have been for several decades carrying our apples and pears overseas decided this year not to carry them any more. The Australian Apple and Pear Board then entered into discussions with the Salen-Blue Star nonconference group, which was prepared to carry a portion of our crop next season on the basis of a freight increase of 24.24 per cent, which was equivalent to an extra 50c a case or S3. 5m on the 7 million cases of apples and pears exported each year from Australia. Naturally the Board rejected this outrageous offer as one which would be crippling to the industry. 
At that point of time an American shipping company - quite out of the blue - made an offer to the Board to carry H million cases overseas at a freight rate comparable with last season's rate, which was S2.23 a case, but this offer was not acceptable. So the Apple and Pear Board a few weeks ago sent a team to London to renegotiate with the Salen-Blue Star Line. 
The negotiating team returned to Australia at the weekend with a very sad story to tell. It said that it had to accept a tough compromise. It had to accept an increase in freight rates of between 12 per cent and 20 per cent, depending on the rate of loading and the rebate conditions. Furthermore, the Line will lift only 4,700,000 of the possible 7.000,000 cases of fruit that Australia produces for export. A 20 per cent freight rise will cost Tasmania alone an extra $2m on its freight bill last season of $llm. The new rate will approach $2.70 a case. The growers will have to get at least $6.40 a case in the United Kingdom and elsewhere to break even. The average price obtained last season, which was a good season, was about $5.50. So it looks to me as if, unless some very important concessions are made in relation to the new arrangements, the Tasmanian growers in particular and the Australian growers as a whole will have to give up growing apples and pears. Unless a solution is found to this piracy on the high seas the majority of the growers in Australia will be ruined. 
What action needs to be taken? Firstly, a concerted effort will have to be made to lift the speed of loading. Unitisation and single bills of lading will have to be introduced in order to gain maximum rebates and so reduce the freight burden. The rate in Hobart at present is 15,000 bushels a ship a day. Although the waterside workers . have given the industry great co-operation each year and have been praised for their efforts, the rate of loading will have to be increased by 50 per cent if we are to get a maximum freight reduction from rebates. That will place a big burden on everybody handling the fruit at the loading end. 
Secondly, maximum use will have to be made of the stabilisation plan for the industry which was recently passed by this Parliament. The Commonwealth will have to pay the 80c guarantee for the full 7 million cases exported and not a part thereof, as stated in the legislation. Thirdly, the American shipping line's offer to carry one million cases will have to be accepted whatever its conditions. Fourthly, the Commonwealth may have to make a straight out subsidy of at least 20c a case, which represents half the increase being demanded. 
If the industry is to be saved one or all of the propositions I have put forward will have to be accepted. At the present time the growers do not know whether they are going to pick their apples next season or let them rot on the ground. Never has the Australian apple and pear industry faced a crisis such as the one it is now going through. The industry is worth $20m a year to Tasmania alone. Are we going  to  let this industry go down the drain just because the Government is not interested in it? 
But by the time a Labor government gets in at the end of next year there will not be an industry at all unless this Government is prepared to take specific action urgently to tackle the great problems, especially the freight cost problem. 
This is the grim story of a nation which does not have its own overseas shipping line. We are now face to face with the results of the critical decision that was made by the Menzies Government when it came to office in 1949 not to go ahead with the legislation which had been passed by the Chifley Labor Government 4 months earlier for the establishment of an overseas shipping line. If we had established our own overseas shipping line at that time we could now have 15 to 20 of our own modern ships on the overseas trade runs and our industries would not bc facing the crisis that confronts them today because of high freight rates. We are today in the hands of the Philistines and the 20th century pirates. The story I have just related proves that. 
On 28th October 1 asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  whether, in view of the fact that the Government had been subsidising an overseas shipping line to South America to the tune of $1,101,000 over the last 5 years, it would come to the party and subsidise freight rates between the mainland and Tasmania to offset the 25 per cent increase the Australian National Line has received in freight rates in the last 2 years and which has hit our economy a very severe blow. After I had received the reply from the Minister I said that this could sound the death knell of any Commonwealth assistance. The Premier of Tasmania ridiculed my suggestion. He condemned me for using extravagant language and seeking to make party political points. He said: 
Applications of this kind are made not by private members of the Opposition but by the State government. Until the matter is discussed by the Federal and State governments the decision of the Commonwealth will not be known. 
The latest increase of 12ยฃ per cent was put into effect in the middle of June. Yet the Premier's statement would indicate that the 
Tasmanian Government has not yet made an official approach to this Government for a freight subsidy. It is an indictment of his Government that he has criticised my question to the Minister. What are we to think of the situation when the Minister replies to my question requesting a subsidy to the effect that although he is concerned at the situation, it is not Government policy to subsidise the Line and he does not anticipate any change? It was after I received that reply that I said that it sounded like the death knell of Federal assistance for Tasmanian shipping and the Premier attacked me for making that comment. I will repeat it, unless the Government is prepared to come forward and deny that this is so. I want the Minister to tell me whether the Tasmanian Premier has, on behalf of his Government, made an official approach to this Government in the past 4 months about such a subsidy. If it has not this is a disgrace to Tasmania because the crisis caused by the increased freight rates charged by the ANL is affecting the whole of the Tasmanian economy. 
In conclusion I must say that the annual report of the ANL tells a sad story for Tasmania because the report states that unless the Line continually increases the amount of freight carried it cannot continue to operate at a profit. This is sad news for us. 
Did the Prime Minister tell the Premiers on 14th February that he was determined to stop the 9 per cent pay increase won recently by public servants in Victoria flowing through to the wages of other white collar workers and, in particular, to Commonwealth public servants? If he can carry out such a restrictive operation as that, will he give this House a similarly firm undertaking that he will act to stop the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd steel price increase flowing through to other prices which are influenced by that increase? 
I support the motion to suspend Standing Orders to enable a vote to be taken on this important matter. For a long time the need has been brewing to bring this Government face to face with what it is doing throughout country districts by closing non-official post offices. The raising of this matter of public importance by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  has given us the opportunity to confront the Government. If he had not raised this matter, the Opposition would have done so because facts and figures sought and obtained from the Postmaster-General's Department reveal that considerable numbers of post offices are being closed throughout Australia. It is all very well for the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to say that officers from local districts are sent out to investigate whether a post office should be closed. I guarantee that in most instances the head office has told the district officer that a certain post office is to be closed and the officer merely goes out to confirm the decision. 
The urgency of this matter is emphasised by an examination of the figures obtained by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  last year concerning the number of non-official post offices which have been closed in every electorate in Australia. In the 3 years from 1st July 1968 to 30th June 1971 a total of 198 post offices have been closed in Victoria, 136 in New South Wales and 79 in Tasmania. In my electorate alone 34 post offices have been closed. 
In Queensland, 58 post offices were closed; in South Australia, 35 were closed; in Western Australia 23 were closed; and in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory 3 post offices were closed" - a total of 532 post offices in country districts. These closures were almost entirely in rural areas, which are already suffering from a recession and other problems. On top of these problems they then lost their post offices, which are the central contacts for their businesses. The alternative now is a porterage system by car to the road gate of each farm, where mail is left in a box on a post some distance from the homes. The mail is unguarded and money that is travelling by post to the farmers concerned is in an insecure position. There are 56 electorates involved in the closure of post offices, according to the list that we have obtained from the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  Therefore, honourable members on this side of the House believe that Government supporters especially Country Party members, who talk so much about helping country districts, should now show where they stand on this issue. Without further delay, I urge honourable members on the other side, who have talked so much outside the House about what they would do when this issue arose, to ::how us what they are made of. 
1 want to speak on a matter which I believe involves a grave discrimination under the War Services Homes Act. This discrimination came rather glaringly to my notice in a case which was presented to me in my office last week. It concerns a 20-year-old son of a farmer in the Deloraine district of my electorate who has completed his national service training during which time he had 3 months service in Vietnam. He was discharged on 29th January last year and is receiving a small war pension for a gunshot wound in the left hand. His experiences have affected his nerves and he has had 2 months in hospital with nerve trouble. 
This man was a member of the 7th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, an infantry unit. He recently married and because there is no home for him on his father's farm he has had to board or rent a flat in Deloraine. He has to travel 7 miles to his father's farm and 7 miles back home each day. He applied for a war service homes grant, which is his right as an exserviceman, at an interest rate of about  3%  per cent. Honourable members are aware of this rate of interest which has not changed since it was brought in during the latter stages of World War II. This is the most wonderful Act that could possibly be conceived to assist ex-servicemen to get a home after they have finished their period of service. 
This man's application for a war service homes grant was rejected on the ground that he does not own a viable property. The fact that he is working on his father's 500-acre property and that he is needed by his father does not count at all. He has one acre of land not far from his parents' home on this property which was granted to him by his grandfather. However, as I said, the War Service Homes Division of the Department of Housing will not grant him a loan so that he can build a home on this land. In order to be eligible for a grant he needs to have the deeds of a viable property that is 70, 80 or 100 acres. He has to prove that he can earn a living off that number of acres before he is entitled to a war service home grant. 1 think I have never had brought to me a case so striking as this one. lt shows the discrimination that exists between a rural ex-serviceman and one who lives in a town or city. I took the matter up with the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  this week and I have laid the full story before him. But I also wanted to raise this matter in the House to show a very grave weakness in an Act of Parliament. I only hope that as a result of this representation an amendment will be made to the War Services Homes Act to put our country exservice boys on the same footing as those in the capital cities, big country towns or country cities.  Mr J.  B. Lucas, the Assistant  Deputy  Director of War Service Homes, set out in a letter to the exserviceman what in effect the Act states.  Mr Lucas  wrote: 
Generally in a rural area, assistance is only available to an applicant who is the owner of a grazing or farming property from which that applicant derives the whole or a substantial part of his livelihood. In addition to deriving his livelihood from the property, which is regarded as  a  living area', the property must not already possess a dwelling house. 
I am sure you will appreciate that the area of land offered by you at Quamby Brook comprising approximately only one acre and being in a locality where surrounding properties are approximately from 200 to 300 acres, could not in any circumstance be regarded as a 'living area'. 
Representations were made on behalf of the ex-serviceman to ascertain whether the Department would grant him the right of a war service homes loan if he had 50 acres of land. The ex-serviceman was told that this would have to be examined by a departmental' officer and that it would have to be proved to the Department's satisfaction that he could live off 50 acres. As this is a dairying area the ex-serviceman would have to live off 50 acres of dairying land. 
All in all this is a shocking case of discrimination as between ex-servicemen who have fought side by side in the latest conflict in Vietnam. When the city chap comes back he has only to apply for a war service homes loan and put down the necessary deposit in order to receive that loan. This is what happens with ex-servicemen who live in cities or country towns. But the country ex-serviceman has to prove to the Department that he owns an economic unit. In other words, he has to prove that he already has a farm which in some strange way has been given to him or which is owned by him in some form. He has to prove that he can live off 100 acres or 200 acres, as the case may be, before the Department will even consider him as an applicant. Not one city ex-serviceman has to prove the viability of his job in order to earn the right to a war service home loan. All he has to do is to show that he has a block of land or the equivalent in cash. This boy wants a $12,000 house built on the farm where he works every day of his life. He was prepared to put down $4,000 as a deposit. Therefore he needs only $8,000 from the War Service Homes Division. Even though those terms are fantastic - not many can offer so much by way of deposit - he still has been refused the loan. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid),  wants to address the House before the Grievance Day debate ends I will not take up any  more of  my time because I want him to have the maximum amount of time. I put it to the House and the Minister that this discrimination must be remedied. All ex-servicemen, whatever their age, size, occupation, background or talents, should have and absolute and equal right to obtain a war service homes loan. However, country ex-servicemen do not have this equal right. They are grossly discriminated against. I say that this is an outrageous discrimination and this Parliament through the Minister for Housing has to correct it. 
The honourable member for- Macarthur  (Mr jeff Bate)  has acted like a wet blanket in praising this legislation. I do not think he could see any light in it at all; it was all darkness to him. The reason is simple.  His  philosophy is grounded in complete and absolute laissez faire - private individ"ualism, private enterprise, the god of industry, the god of production. It is interesting that the attitude of the honourable member and most of his colleagues can be summed up in one sentence: They want to individualise their gains and socialise their losses. They want to be rescued when they are in trouble and they want to be on their own when things are going well. 
I was interested in some comments of the honourable member for Macarthur, some of which I will refer to shortly. The honourable member is really against an expansion of power for the Australian Dairy Produce Board. The purpose of this legislation is to enable the Board to be stronger financially in that it will be able to use moneys in its account other than moneys borrowed from the Reserve Bank to acquire equity capital and to make loans, lt was not envisaged when the Board was established to meet a tremendous breakthrough in the early 1960s that it would enter into joint commercial ventures in Asia. The Board has been using for investment in Asia money obtained from the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund. That money has built up from post war contracts with the United Kingdom. However, the Board does not have sufficient money for investment in this new and dramatic field in Asia. 
I commend the Board. I think it has set a tremendous example to every other government board. I am not against government boards. 1 am all for them because they can. help industries. Boards are necessary to control and market production. In this joint ' venture with private enterprise Asian businessmen the 'Board has pioneered something completely new. It is tackling the problems of markets in Asia, lt is not calling upon other people to solve the marketing problems. Representatives of the Board are out in the Asian field, building plants and processing raw material from Australia for consumption on the Asian market. The initiative, daring, courage and intelligence displayed by the Dairy Produce Board are of the highest order. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said at the opening of this debate, we in this House commend the Board most sincerely on its efforts. 
There is no future in engaging in production unless we can find a market for the product, and this is what the Board is doing. These joint business enterprises in Asian markets have earned the industry about $4m as its share of the profits on capital invested in the manufacture of a large range of canned milk products in Asian plants. The Board has increased its sales in Asia at a time when the marketing of our products has been very difficult. For instance, in Thailand since 1967 Australia's share of the market has risen from 3 per cent to 50 per cent. In Indonesia, Australia enjoys a 75 per cent share of the consuming market In Cambodia it has a 100 per cent share of the consuming market. We have a monopoly in Cambodia for these products, in the Philippines we supply 20 per cent of the market. This is a remarkable achievement in an area where there is tremendous competition for markets, especially now that Britain's entry to the European Economic Community is a reality. 
The flow of trade in the future will be switched from Europe to Asia and I foresee that the future of our part of the world will be decided in Asia and not in Europe. The trade advantages and trade potential of this Asian area will have to be exploited by us and by other countries but this is where the  future of trade will  be. Already Asia is taking 40 per cent of Australia's total export production. That is a fantastic figure and it has increased by $l74m in the last year. So the future of trade as far as we are concerned is with Asia and the Australian Dairy Produce Board is proving how this trade and these markets can be captured. It is a tremen- clous performance. 
The Board requires raw materials of about 30,000 tons of skim milk powder and 7,500 tons of butter oil to make this project possible and it will want more raw -material sent there as it increases' its sales. The demand is so great that the Board is finding it difficult to supply the increasing raw materials required while at the same time supplying the Australian home market for milk products. Up to 30th June last year the value of raw materials shipped to our Asian plants totalled $36,124,000 which is equivalent to 99,000 tons of milk powder and 23,000 tons of butter oil. The value of the plants' turnover in the 5 countries was $96,376,543. This is talking in substantial sums of money. The net profit of the operating companies in these joint projects is $8,661,000 to date. Private enterprise could not do better. The honourable member for Macarthur has always been opposed to Government enterprise. Most of his colleagues despise Government enterprise and he has damned the Board with faint praise today at a time when we should be congratulating it for what it has done. 
There are one or two other points which should be mentioned. The Board up to date has invested a total of $5,918,000 in plants, $2,400,000 in the form of share capital and $3,518,000 as loans for equipment, working capital and raw materials. It is a substantial investment and we have certainly pioneered the way in this sort of joint enterprise. Other countries possibly will follow us, perhaps to our disadvantage, but at least we have pioneered something which will certainly produce results for Australian dairy farmers. The combined value of Australia's overseas sales of miscellaneous butter fat products improved in 1970-71 by 10.1 per cent to $53. 3m. The value of overseas sales of skim milk powder increased sharply by 42.2 per cent to $ 1 2.1m but casein declined by 3.4 per cent to $ 12.1m. The overseas sales value of Australian cheese fell by 3.1 per cent to $ 19.1m, making the aggregate for the 4 groups $96.6m in 1970-71 compared with $89.01m in the previous year. This is an increase in sales approximately $7m from butter fat products, skim milk powder, casein and cheese. 
The EEC, of course, has dominated the thinking of all exporters and governments in the Pacific area. Butter shipments to the United Kingdom during the year under review declined by 18.3 per cent to 54,500 tons which is about 13,000 below our quota of 67,000 tons. The Board had great difficulty in trying to keep within reasonable range of bur quota, even by reducing stocks to very low levels in Australia to try to approach our quota in the United Kingdom. 
The interesting thing about the export of butter shipments to countries other than the United Kingdom is that we increased our shipments by 20.5 per cent to 14,200 tons in 1970-71. So although we went down 18 per cent in shipments to the United Kingdom we increased our sales to Asia and other countries by 20.5 per cent; in all we had an increase in butter shipments. Just over 90 per cent of the anhydrous milk fat sales went to markets in South East Asia, more particularly to countries where milk plants are located. I would like to mention something about cheese. The honourable member for Macarthur - I would like members of the Board who are in the House today to check his figures - said that last year we increased our imports of cheese by Jim. I think he is talking through the back of his neck. I have here the report to the Minister in which the Board said: 
Cheese imports into Australia declined in 1970- 71 by 11.6 per cent to 5,808 tons, thereby terminating a continued upward trend over several years. This has resulted from the provisional antidumping action by the Commonwealth Government in the form of security deposits, pending the outcome of the Tariff Board inquiry into the dumping of cheese onto the Australian market. 
We are very concerned about imports of cheese, as the honourable member for Macarthur has been, but to say that imports increased by $lm last year is completely untrue on the figures I have from the Board. The Opposition hopes that imports of cheese into Australia may decline further because we have to protect our home industry to the best of our ability. 
The influence of the EEC is problematical. We cannot spell it out to the actual dollar or ton or predict the influence it will have on the sales of our butter fat to the United Kingdom. But we know that milk production in the Netherlands is expected to rise. We know also that there will be a further growth In French milk production and that the Irish Republic will have an increase in production. Within the United Kingdom there will be a" national desire to expand milk production to minimise payments to the European Agricultural Guarantee and Guidance Fund. The Board in its report said: 
These circumstances,  combined  wilh the expected substantial reduction in UK butter consumption under the influence of the high EEC retail price  and the continued access of New Zealand butter, could leave very little room available for residual suppliers such as Australia. According to market surveys conducted in the UK., there are already indications that the higher butter prices prevailing towards the end of the year under review resulted in a reduction in consumer demand for butter. 
That is a complete and valid assessment of the situation. The price of butter to the English consumer will rise when the United Kingdom firmly enters the European Economic Community. There will be a buyer resistance to butter, as there is here with every rise in the price of butter to our consumers. These things being considered, I think that Australia will find less and less access to the United Kingdom market and we must find more and more markets for butter products in Asia. That is why the Board established these plants firmly on Asian soil, knowing that that is where the shift of trade will be going in the future. They are there at the start rather than at the end of such a movement. We commend (he Board wholeheartedly for what it has done. 
Finally 1 want to mention an important factor in milk production - the cow itself. An amazing fact comes from reading the statistics about dairy cows in Australia. Since 1966 in New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia the number of dairy cows has declined considerably. The only 2 States in which dairy cow numbers have increased are Tasmania and Victoria. The total decrease in the number of milking cows in Australia in the last 5 years is 200,695, yet in that period the production per cow has increased from 483 gallons to 583 gallons annually. This is a remarkable trend in the management of cattle. It is. a tribute to our. agricultural officers in every Slate. It is a tribute to the individual dairy farmers. We hear so much fantasy talk about inefficient dairy farmers. There are not too many of them left in this country,' otherwise they would not be on their farms now. The fact that in 5 years on an average throughout Australia milk production has increased by 100 gallons per cow annually, taking the good years and the bad years together, is a magnificent tribute to the dairy farmer, to the management of the farm, to the type of soil, to the type of grasses, to the feed procedures and to the agricultural officers who have been in close contact all the time with the dairy farmer.. Although the number of dairy cows has decreased substantially their production: has increased substantially. So we find that the slack in total production has been taken up, because the production per cow has been so greatly increased. 
The honourable member for Macarthur was correct when he referred to the decline in one section of dairy products - butter. That has gone down in the last 5 years by about 6,000 tons. That is not very much, and production .could easily go up wilh good seasons. The trouble is that there can be a drought in Queensland and lush pastures in Victoria. I cannot remember when in every area of dairy production in Australia we had a good season. If that were the ease we would never have any shortage  of  this product and we would probably have great difficulty in finding markets for all  of it.  But the fact remains that because Australia is so large and has such a variety of dairy areas, geographically, we cannot ever get a good season everywhere, from Tasmania to Queensland. I support the Bill and congratulate the Government for deciding to agree to the Board's recommendation that it have greater flexibility in its financial arrangements. The Opposition gives the Bill 100 per cent support. 
I am not convinced by the reply of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to the amendment. It is easy, sitting in the box seat as the Minister is with a big staff and a big department behind him, to pooh-pooh any suggestions we make. The Minister has the honour of not accepting one amendment from this side of the Parliament in the umpteen years he has been PostmasterGeneral; that is a wonderful record to go out with. The Opposition cannot be wrong all the time. Occasionally there must be some merit in suggestions from this side. All the best ideas surely have not been born on the other side but one would think so to hear Minister after Minister get up in this place and refuse to accept an amendment put forward by the Opposition. The Minister was asked how many licences are being renewed annually and he gave in reply the fantastic figure of 160. I query that. It is an enormous annual figure. What I and the Opposition are concerned about are the applications for renewal of television licences. I would like the Minister to break down his figure and inform the House of the number of television licences that are being renewed each year. Most of us are concerned with the impact of television on the community. The impact of radio on the community cannot be compared with the visual impact of television. Therefore, the Board, the Minister and the Parliament have the daily or weekly responsibility to ensure that television stations keep on the ball and that they comply with the standards laid down by the Board. 
Our preposition to set up an inquiry when a licensee makes an application for renewal of a licence is a reasonable one. I should not image that there would be many occasions on which an inquiry would be extensive. All we are doing is providing under the Act the opportunity for an inquiry to be held. In most cases when an application for the renewal of a licence was made, particularly in regard to television, there would be no further discussion; nobody would lodge any objection and nobody would ask the inquiry to take the licensee apart. That would happen only occasionally. But we want to provide the opportunity so that it can happen when viewers become fed up with a certain emphasis, or lack of emphasis, in a particular programme on a particular station. 
Also, our proposition does not mean that every licensee would have to face investigation and criticism. The inquiry provision lays down the forum for discussion if required, and that is all. It has been suggested that as 148 applications for licences are made annually there would be 148 inquiries held annually. That is not so. Only a small number of the applicants would have to face an inquiry with any degree of anxiety. We believe that as television stations have such powers for changing, shaping and structuring the minds of the Australian people, they can be the most dangerous section of the media, just as they may be the most beneficial section. We have heard many criticisms of the impact which television programmes showing the American way of life have on our community. Of course, that is true. But one wonders about our own culture. We place a pretty low value on our own culture when we realise that the vast majority of television programmes originate in America, or if they do not originate there they certainly extol the American way of life and the American system. 
Yes, that is right. So the Opposition is not being unreasonable in putting forward this amendment. It appears that the Government is being completely unreasonable in not accepting it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I will speak very briefly. In spite of all that has been said by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the Opposition thoroughly supports this Bill as it has always supported every worthwhile Bill for the wheat industry. The Australian Labor Party was the first to introduce the wheat stabilisation plan which has been continued by successive Liberal-Country Party Governments, the last of which is in office now. Therefore, the Opposition rejects the type of criticism that has been levelled at it by one or two speakers on the other side of the House. The wheat industry covers several Australian States and has 60,000 to 70,000 wheat growers in it. Its problems have been aggravated not so much by over production by what we call the established wheat farmer but by the new men who went into the industry in recent years because of the stabilised price, the guaranteed returns and the security that they gave. I know of one case of what is called a Collins Street farmer turning to wheat production and sowing 15,000 acres. He was not a registered wheat grower; he was not a bona fide wheat grower. He was a businessman going out to grow wheat. 
Of course he would be. Many of these growers especially in the west and in parts of Victoria are new chums at wheat growing and they aggravated the position considerably by producing wheat on their new farms. The quota system was introduced because of over-production and these fellows were one of the reasons for over-production. But what will we do about these people who jump into rural industries in times of plenty and good prices and desert them in times of bad prices? They are a problem to governments, whatever Party is in office. I just make that point In respect to the reasons for over-production. 
At this stage I want to pay a tribute to the Australian Wheat Board. It has shown what good salesmanship really is and its magnificent salesmanship over recent years is an example to all other Boards trying to export Australiangrown cereals. With the dairying industry, which has revolutionised our exports to China and other Asian countries, the Wheat Board stands as our most experienced and expert seller of our products. The Wheat Board has had its hands tied behind its back for many years because of the attitude of this Government to the People's Republic of China and the Board has had my gratitude throughout these years because it was out fighting for markets in a country that was not recognised by this Government, the Government that at this moment is backing the Wheat Board. Although the Board is an independent and autonomous body, it is sheltered, supported and sustained by the Government. The Government has been deliberately insulting to the People's Republic of China over the last 20 years. During those long years the Wheat Board has tried to sell wheat to that country at a time when the Government was condemning the People's Republic of China left, right and centre. This is why the Wheat Board deserves our complete gratitude for its long battle to maintain its markets and its exports. 
Finally last year the Wheat Board found the doors closed in China. Canada then moved in and sold 98 million bushels to China. The Government's attitude had to catch up with ;he Wheat Board eventually and the sooner this Government really gets into conversation at the top diplomatic level with China, as  President  Nixon has done over the last lew weeks, the sooner our market in that country will bc restored. Considering that the type of market was so drastically reduced it staggers me that the Wheat Board sold 364 million bushels last year. The Board is to bc congratulated for finding new markets. It is a splendid and a magnificent Board. The wheat industry should be proud of it. Although the Board has had to have introduced unpopular legislation and regulations in the last 12 months or so because of over production, it is still a magnificent manager of the great Australian wheat industry in which between 60.000 and 70,000 growers earn their living. 1 wish to criticise the interest rates that are to be charged on the sum of $150m that the Commonwealth will be permitted to borrow once this legislation is passed. I temper my criticism by saying that the Commonwealth is authorised only to borrow $150m. It just does not pick up this money from the Commonwealth Bank and pay it to the Board, which in turn will pay the Reserve Bank the money it owes to that bank. It has to go to the country and borrow $l50m, but we do not know from where at this stage. Conceivably the Commonwealth will have to pay interest of more than  5)  per cent for some of that money. The Commonwealth will charge an overall interest rate of  5i  per cent for the $150m that it lends to the Wheat Board. Having regard to interest rates the Commonwealth could be in debt in the final wash up. I want also to criticise the principle of high interest rates for loan money. For instance, the Development Bank charges interest at 6 per cent on loans to farmers who are opening up new land. That sort of interest rate is outrageous. It is usurious and makes Shylock appear like a Sunday School teacher by comparison. 
High interest rates will always kill, restrict and restrain development and security amongst those people who must pay them, irrespective of whether they are home builders, developers or farmers. I am very critical of the generally high levels of interest that are charged by governments, particularly this Government. In this instance the Board will pay about an extra S3. 5m and eventually that money will have to be found by the growers. The Board will pay approximately $3. 5m for the money the Commonwealth will lend to it to pay back to the Rural Credits Section of the Reserve Bank. 
The redeeming feature of the loan is that the interest of  5i  per cent per annum will be paid on the daily outstanding balance, and not as a flat rate. If fiat rate interest were charged, interest of about $7.5m would be paid in one year on the loan of $150m. The Board would have to pay that amount. As interest is to be paid on  a  sliding scale of repayments it will amount to about $3. 5m, which is still a high figure to pay for this money which is to be borrowed for only a year or a little longer. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has indicated, the Opposition supports this Bill because it is absolutely necessary to tide the Board over a very difficult period. 1 think all sensible people in Australia, whether consumers of wheat products or growers of wheat, should support a measure such as this in a critical time. 
-I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
I do  this as  a protest against the House sitting after midnight. I shall do it every night on which we sit past midnight. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! That motion is out of order. 
I move: 
That progress be reported. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree, on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
By leave - I would like to make a very short statement. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the Government Whip, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  have correctly recounted the discussions we had on the matter this morning. It is quite true that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  abstained from voting in the 2 divisions. In that connection his name should not have appeared in the pairs lists in Hansard on Tuesday. In my pairs book the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  was paired with another honourable member on the Government side. That honourable member voted, probably inadvertently, and left my colleague stranded. Obviously the answer is to clear this matter up as  Mr Speaker  has suggested, that is, to remove both names from the 2 divisions when published in the weekly Hansard. 
I agree to that course as does my colleague from Gellibrand. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available  io  Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry anything to report on my representations of 3 weeks ago concerning the menace to Australian blue pea growers of imports of blue peas from New Zealand? Is the Minister aware that New Zealand blue peas are being cleaned in Sydney and sold at $2.30 a bushel whereas the Tasmanian grown blue peas cannot be sold in Sydney for less than $3 a bushel because of sea freight costs? Will the Minister's New Zealand-Australia trade panel act to save this important industry in Australia from strangulation by New Zealand? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Division of Wilmot respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the. degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I endorse everything that was said by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  We all agree with the Bill. The honey industry reminds me of an unwanted baby. It was left on the doorstep for a long time, until in 1962 this maternity minded Government dragged the baby in from the doorstep, cleaned it up, fed it, looked after it and gave it a home. The change in the industry's fortunes from being an unwanted baby left on the doorstep to becoming a respectable citizen was brought about by the introduction in 1962, of the Bill which created the Honey Board. We agreed to that Bill at the time because we believe that an industry that is facing great trouble should be protected, strengthened and given a home and an object in life by being brought under the control of a board. 
The Honey Board comprises 10 members. The  chairman  is  Mr K.  J. C. Mitchell of Queensland and the Federal secretary is  Mr K..  A. H. Read. These 2 gentlemen came to see us last week to give us a lot of information about what is going on behind the scenes, the problems facing the industry and also the successes which have been achieved since the Board was established. The Board is actually organising the industry. From its disorganised state the industry is now in an organised state. The provisions of this Bill will strengthen the Board and give apiarists the chance to elect their own members to the Board by democratic ballot among those who qualify to vote - that is those who have more than 200 hives. On the matter of statistics it is interesting to note that there are 5,481 apiarists in Australia producing 48,963,000 lb of honey a year. Last year the gross value of that production was $4,896,300. This is not a tinpot industry; this is an important industry. Those 5,481 apiarists would represent possibly 20,000 people, if we include their families and the people who work for them. 
The interesting point about introducing this provision that apiarists must have 200 hives or more before they qualify to vote means that 696 apiarists will be eligible to vote. This does not sound many but it is the democratic process in action. Those 696 apiarists can elect the growers to the Board in place of the present unwieldy and very unfair system. Apiarists who have under 200 hives total 4,785. They produce 8,163,000 lb of honey out of a total of 48,000,000 lb. Only 16 per cent of the total production comes from the 4,785 apiarists who have under 200 hives each. The figures in relation to the gross annual income of apiarists show that 4,311 of them earn $90 a year, 295 earn $675 a year and 179 earn SI, 283 a year. Obviously those men have an income other than that derived from producing honey. These men have hives as a sideline only. Those are the growers who are excluded from a vote. 
The Australian Labor Party looked at this matter very closely. We thought it seemed rather arbitrary to fix the number of hives at 200 until we realised that a person had to have 200 hives before the industry was viable. For instance, 140 apiarists have 249 hives and their average income is $2,019. That figure is a bit more respectable. There are 148 apiarists who have 600 hives or more, and they have an average income of $12,297 a year. It has been worked out that 200 hives or more makes for a reasonably viable industry. We agree on that point. 
The 696 apiarists represent 13 per cent of all registered apiarists, and they account for 83 per cent of all honey produced. That is a remarkable effort. For the record, I mention that of those 696 apiarists, 265 are in New South Wales, 153 are in Victoria, 129 are in South Australia, 73 are in Queensland, 67 are in Western Australia and 9 are in Tasmania. All States except Tasmania will be voting. Tasmania will not be voting because it is outside the scheme, as my colleague the honourable member for Dawson said. I shall have a word to say on that matter a little later. The scope of the voting stretches right across the Commonwealth, and in that sense geographically this is a perfectly justified and justifiable method of ascertaining those who are to vote, namely, those who have 200 or more hives. 
In 1956 some 1.6 lb of honey per head of population was consumed. In 1972 con sumption had increased to 2.3 lb. This is the second highest consumption in the world, exceeded only by New Zealand. Of all honey produced in Australia, 66 per cent is consumed in Australia - we are becoming increasingly honey minded - and 24 per cent is exported. In 1963 the price won overseas for our honey was $215 a ton. In 1971 that return increased to $430 a ton. At the present time honey is one of our most valuable exports. The Board has told us that it is a bit worried about the gradually increasing price for honey overseas, lt is worried as the wool growers were worried in the early 1950s when wool went to over 300 pence a lb. The Board feels there could be a reaction to this in a year or so or perhaps even less, and it is trying to cushion the effect if there should be a sudden drop in price. But at the present time the market is buoyant. The situation is encouraging and the Board is very happy with what is happening. By exporting 22,197,000 lb of honey in 1970- 71 Australia became the fourth largest exporter of that commodity. 
Australia exports honey to the United Kingdom, Japan, West Germany, Malaysia, Sweden, Mozambique, the Netherlands, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, South Yemen and Libya - a very wide range of areas. The increase in exports to Japan has been absolutely dramatic. These exports have risen from only 403,000 lb in 1967- 68 to 2,298,000 lb in 1970-71. That is a dramatic rise in 3 years. The United Kingdom has increased its intake of Australian honey from 7,477,000 lb in 1967-68 to 14,820,000 lb in 1970-71. German imports of Australian honey have increased in the same period from 390,000 lb to 1,182,000 lb. So, in Japan, the United Kingdom and Germany our market is continually growing. This is a most encouraging sign indeed. The main honey exporting countries in the world are first, Argentina; second, Mexico; third, the People's Republic of China; and fourth, Australia. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for producers to be elected by fellow producers in each State. I will not deal with that point any further because it has been covered very well. The fifth point that I wish to mention in my address tonight is the agent system of selling in the United Kingdom. This, to me, is a pilot scheme that could well be used in respect of the proposed marketing authority for the apple and pear industry. In the United Kingdom there are 2 or 3 registered, licensed importers of our product. To us, they are our sellers. Let me explain what happens with the honey that we export through the Australian Honey Board. I should mention that the Australian Honey Board has done a fantastic job. The report for 1970-71 is a wonderful document to come from what is one of the most recently created boards in Australia; it is only 10 years old. The report demonstrates a tremendous range of activities, including a wonderful research programme and an exceedingly good publicity programme which could be an example to many of our other well established industries. The Board also is wonderfully served overseas on the aspect of promotion. I was quite amazed to read the full story of the Honey Board as presented in the 1970-71 report. 
The Australian Honey Board has 2 licensed agents in the United Kingdom. They are paid 3 per cent commission on the price that they secure for Australian honey in the United Kingdom. Higher prices are reflected in the returns to growers, that is the apiarists, in Australia. These 2 licensed agents or companies are proud to be so licensed. Agents are encouraged to give maximum concern, thought and effort to selling Australian honey when they know that the more they sell the larger will be their commission. I think that this is a good scheme generally to apply to the selling of our products overseas. The licensed agents arrangement is a pilot scheme in my opinion for the export of the Australian apple and pear crop under a single marketing authority. This systematised, disciplined, personal agents system has revolutionised our honey selling on markets in the United Kingdom and other countries. The Board deserves absolute credit for what it is doing. 
I know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is sitting at the table, is concerned with approximately 20 primary industries and that it is impossible for him to know every detail of each one of them. The facts that I am putting to the Minister tonight, if they are not known to him, must be encouraging. If they are known to him, I am only emphasising something of which he is aware. Furthermore, these agents furnish to the Aus tralian Honey Board information as to consumer demand, prices charged by the retailer, marketing techniques, and retailing trends in the United Kingdom. The Honey Board is kept right up to date with information on these factors. This enables it to fix a realistic price, which it does every 3 months. The Board adopts an interesting system which I have not time to detail tonight. It reviews the price every 3 months on the basis of information supplied by its agents in the United Kingdom relating to market trends in that county. I am sure that the apiarists of Australia are very grateful for the great amount of work that the Board gives to fixing a price which enables the industry to continue at a viable level. The Australian Honey Board reported on market conditions at page 9 of its 1970-71 report and referred to the very encouraging future for the industry. The report states: 
It can be said that without an organised and practical marketing policy the year under review could have seen a widely fluctuating price structure existing with some unnecessary interstate Australian competition. 
This is not in the best interests of either buyer or seller, and the controls exercised by the appointment of joint agencies in Europe and the controlled grade prices at Board level resulted in realistic price levels at which private enterprise buying in all countries could operate satisfactorily. 
The Australian export price showed a steady and continual increase throughout the year and kept in mind the buyers' needs to maintain their blends and requirements. 
Those words reveal a very encouraging picture. I propose to mention next the honey industry in Tasmania which is unique among the primary industries of Australia. At the time the Australian Honey Board was created Tasmania was a problem child in this industry. 
I agree, but our job in this place as representatives from Tasmania is to let the Government know that the people of Tasmania are part of Australia and are not the occupants of some colonial country or dependency detached from the mainland. 
Yes, and they are black and gold, the same colours as those of my football club. Tasmania has 9 apiarists who have more than 200 hives and in that State the Board collects $1,370 from the honey levy. This amount is handed back to Tasmania for research in that State. As I mentioned earlier, this is a unique arrangement. Although there are so few honey producers in Tasmania the quality of the product is very high. The leatherwood honey which is produced in Tasmania is probably the best that is produced anywhere in the world. It is in great demand and attracts higher prices than any other honey sold on the overseas market. 
At the time when the Honey Board was established it was decided by all concerned, including the Government and the Department of Primary Industry, that Tasmania would have no representative on the Board, that producers in that State would be levied in the same way as apiarists on the mainland, but that the levy collected in Tasmania would be returned to that State. 1 congratulate those who were responsible for this provision at the lime when the Board was established. There is no evidence of that type of arrangement operating under any other board in Australia. Tasmania has 220 apiarists, which is only 4.2 per cent of the total number in Australia. Wi.h such a small number it is no wonder that they were left out on their own without representation on the Board. But they accepted the situation; indeed, it was their request that this should be so. Last year Tasmanian apiarists produced 821,000 lb of honey, which does not sound much, and exported 226,000 lb of choice grade honey - the highest grade in the Commonweal'.h - the value of which was $123,000. 
Another point of interest is that Tasmanian producers when exporting honey seek and secure a licence to export from the Department of Trade and Customs and the Board helps to facilitate export arrangements for Tasmanians. So the Board does give assistance to Tasmania in that sense. I am grateful to those members of the Board and to those Government services which help to make possible for Tasmanian producers the situation which I have explained to the House tonight. We on this side of the chamber welcome the change which is proposed by this Bill, the purpose of which is to strengthen the Act and to facilitate the work of the Board. We believe that the Board will go from strength to strength and that this industry will grow bigger and bigger. 
By voting against this amendment honourable members will be virtually voting for their own execution. This is the first chance we have had for a long time to change a system that has operated since probably right back to Federation. I do not think it has been changed since then. Honourable members have a great chance now to vote for sanity in the sitting hours of this House. Those honourable members who vote against the amendment of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  deserve what happens to them. They deserve to get knocked up and to go home at night absolutely flabbergasted, exhausted and hardly fit to come back again the next day. They deserve all the criticism of people outside who say: 'Fancy sitting till midnight, as you do night after night during some periods of the year'. I cannot understand the mentality of those honourable members who will not support this amendment. 
The suggestion of the honourable member for Mallee is a half way house - if we do not get one then the other is better than none at all. But the honourable member for Mallee is not prepared to put forward his suggestion in the form of an amendment. 
If the honourable member for Mallee were to put forward his proposition in the form of a motion I would support it and I think it could receive the support of the House. The Government has spoken so much about there being a free vote on the subject of this debate, but there is no such thing. 
The honourable member for North Sydney, who just interjected, is the only man on the Government side of the chamber who has had the courage to vote with members of the Opposition, as he did last night, on a proposition put forward by a member of the Opposition. The Government has its supporters tied hand and foot. They are not prepared to break their chains and vote against their masters even in an open vote debate. 
They would probably get expelled. I feel sorry for the honourable member for North Sydney.  1  suppose he has already received a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  about his actions. Honourable members should give careful consideration to the amendment of the honourable member for Wills. If carried it would mean that as from today the business of the House would be interrupted at  10  p.m. and there would then be a debate after that for one hour on the motion for the adjournment of the House. The House would then rise at  11  pm. or, if honourable members wanted to talk for a little longer and the Government was willing to allow them to do so,  11.15  p.m. It should be remembered that every person who works in this place, and there are several hundred of them, has to work for perhaps another hour after that before being able to go home. We do not give any consideration to them when we knock off at midnight and they have to work until  1  a.m. I think that a little bit of humanity in our Standing Orders would spill over to them as well. I am not thinking only of ourselves on this occasion. What would the Government have to lose if this amendment were carried? The hours of sitting vary at present. Sometimes the Government moves the adjournments at  10.30  p.m., sometimes at  10.45  p.m., sometimes at  11  p.m. and sometimes a bit later than  11  p.m. The time varies between about  10.25  p.m. and  11.10  p.m. but it is still a long while after the hour of  10  o'clock which is referred to in this amendment. I believe that as legislators we should be fully awake when we are discussing business in this Parliament. 
He has to get a bit of a rest at some time. That is probably the only time he can do so. I do not think that we will be giving ourselves a fair go from a physical and mental point of view if we do not carry this amendment. Some honourable members are more fortunate than others in that they are paired and can get away before the rest of us. Let us have a think about them. How are they going to vote tonight? As Opposition Whip, I know who gets off on both sides of the Parliament. I do not think it is very fair that any of those honourable members should get up in this House tonight and oppose this amendment when they get away from here quite some time before the rest of us who have to sit it right out to the bitter end. If anybody who is paired fairly regularly gets up and talks in this debate tonight I will interject and name him. Let us be quite fair about it; the only ones who are entitled to talk in this debate are the honourable members who stick it right out to the end every night. I feel that that is only fair. 
I admit that if this amendment were carried it would mean that the House would sit for an hour or half an hour less each night and that li hours a week or more would be cut out of the time set aside for the debating of Government business, but so what? We could make up that time at the end of a session by sitting for an extra week or for  2  extra days. We would get some sanity into the hours of our sitting if we were to do that. There is no sanity at present in our hours of sitting. Where else in Australia do business people normally work till midnight? This crazy Parliament is working from  9  a.m. till midnight. 
This is the first chance we have had for decades to introduce some sanity into our hours of sitting yet the majority of honourable members will probably vote against the amendment. I will have no sympathy for them after that if they get knocked up. They will have to take the consequences of the effect on their health of lengthy hours of sitting. The Budget session normally goes from the middle of August to early in December, which is a long time. Although we sit for  3  weeks and rise for one week it is still a long, dragged out session. If we could leave this place at  11  o'clock at night we would be fresher and fitter for the next day's work, which is essential if the next day we are to have a proper, lively, intelligent debate on the various matters that come before this Parliament. I cannot understand the mentality of any member of this chamber who wants it to sit until midnight. We are having busier times than ever in this place. Each year is getting more difficult. It is becoming harder to get through the work in time because of the pressures of the federal parliamentary programme. It is therefore important to be fit enough to do the work. An extra hour in bed at night would better prepare us for the pressures of the next day. 
Our work is not confined to this place. Most of our work is done at home in our electorates. Every single one of us in this Parliament is working an average of 80 hours a week and getting paid at the rate of about 40 hours a week. On that point, we have received one salary rise in 7ยฃ years and the Public Service has received 4 in 2 years. Thousands of public servants are now receiving more than us in wages. We are just sheer mugs. I may as well tell the whole story. We are getting a daily allowance of $2 less than our secretaries. This is supposed to be the new order, yet we work 80 hours a week on the job. Only a part of our work is done in this place and we are knocked up by the time we come back on Tuesday morning or on Monday night from a difficult weekend of long distance travelling, in the case of country members. Members may travel 200, 300 or 400 miles a weekend and attend 2, 3 or 4 functions. They must be in their office on Monday and they are not left alone on Sunday, either. 
This is the programme of a member of Parliament and yet Government supporters will sit here tonight and leave the hours as they are. Only one thing can be said about that. They are prepared for their own execution. They have put up the scaffold and appointed the man who will spring the trap and they are prepared to succumb on the scafforld by not agreeing to alter sitting hours tonight. Forget party politics. This is not a party political matter. It is one of the few occasions on which honourable members are entitled to vote according to their own way of thinking and their own consciences. This was done in the case of the Matrimonial Causes Bill. So, honourable members on the other side should not let anyone bully them about voting a certain way. If the Government has to bring in important legislation - that is, introduce a new Bill - I am sure that it could, by a mere motion by the Minister concerned, have the right to bring in such legislation and take an extra half hour to do so. There would be no difficulty about that at all. 
Honourable members should consider themselves. We work 80 hours a week and yet honourable members are not prepared to try to save themselves one hour 3 nights a week so that they could get to bed earlier and make themselves fresher and fitter for the next day. I cannot understand this attitude. Some of my colleagues propose to vote that the standing order should remain as it is. As Opposition Whip I should stick with the establishment but I do not stick with the establishment. I am a member of the Standing Orders Committee. I do not care if there is a unanimous vote, except for my vote, to defeat the motion to alter the Standing Orders. I would still get up and speak as I am speaking now because as Opposition Whip for 16 years in this place, I have some conception of the pressures this work imposes upon the body, mind and spirit of members of this Parliament. I am only trying to suggest something that will help all of us to be fitter and fresher members. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  has come half way, but he is not prepared to move a motion that the House adjourn at 10.30 instead of at 10 o'clock. 
Well, that is a good thought, too. 
That is fair enough. I think that we should get this started if we lose the motion moved by the honourable member for Wills. But do not let anybody be browbeaten over this. Do not let tradition or the establishment rule your thinking in this case. Honourable members are masters of their own business as individuals in this place tonight. They can change the Standing Orders so that the motion for the adjournment of the House is moved at 10 o'clock each night and so that there is an hour for the adjournment debate just by voting with the honourable member for Wills tonight. It is as simple as that. The Prime Minister has nothing to do with it. Neither has the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  anything to say about this matter. Honourable members themselves are deciding it tonight and I hope that they will do the right thing to make themselves fitter and fresher members of Parliament when they come back to work the next morning. 
There  is  one difference between this matter of public importance and most other matters  of  public importance which are introduced into this House, and that is that both sides agreed that it should be raised. Wc on this side appreciate the interest and concern  of  t'.e honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  in raising this matter in this Parliament today. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has already raised it on several occasions. There is no doubt that this matter has the complete support of honourable members on both sides  of  this House in an endeavour to find ways and means of meeting the threat to our meat industry by what are called , synthetic or ersatz products. 
I will deal firstly with the threat of imitation meats to our meat industry. The pattern has been set in the United States  of  America and we should take note  of  what is happening there. It should be  a  warning to our industry, this Government and the State governments. For instance, in 1970 the United States produced 580 million lb of soya bean protein which is used in producing synthetic meat. Already big organisations such as General Foods and Du Pont in the United States are developing synthetic meat. It is no longer a minor industry in that country. In the United States in 1971 the production of substitute meat was greater than the total meat imports. Other synthetic products have eaten deeply into established rural industries. In the United States of America about 30 million people a year now drink synthetic milk. In recent times synthetics have played a major role in the decline in wool prices. The honourable member for Herbert mentioned the impact on the sugar industry of artificial sweeteners. 
In the United Kingdom consumption  of  substitute meat has risen to 1,500 tons and, as the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  mentioned,  a  survey  of  40 of the major food suppliers in the United Kingdom revealed that the suppliers expect a 25 per cent penetration into the meat market by 1990. Production  of  ersatz meat in Japan has doubled in the past 2 years to 24,000 tons. If synthetic meat gains  a  foothold in Australia it will be seen first in hamburgers, hot dogs and sausages, and then will extend beyond those items into other meats. For instance, in the 'Bulletin' issue of 17th July 1971 there was an article under 'Market Outlook' entitled 'Soya Beans Challenge to Meat'. The article reads: 
In a bold move, Courtaulds plans to invade the difficult synthetic-foods market, until now dominated almost exclusively by American concerns, by the end of this year or early in 1972 Courtaulds plans to market synthetic meats made from soya-bean filaments both in the wealthy United States and in some of the underdeveloped countries short on the protein content in their staple diet. 
Courtaulds has a great array of competitors facing lt There is reference in this article to 6 great world producers. The article continues: 
The more optimistic estimates for the North American synthetic-foods market run up to 20 million tons a year (more conservative estimates are closer to the IS million tons a year mark). The range of synthetic foods marketed is wide, including synthetic fish, beef, poultry, ham, bacon and fruit and nuts. 
All are made from soya-bean filaments, and synthetic-foods manufacturers claim that thenproducts are almost indistinguishable from the real thing in appearance or taste. This is achieved with the aid of artificial coloring and flavoring added to soya-bean filaments, which can be woven into any shape or form. 
I have quoted these facts concerning what is happening around the world in order to indicate the threat which the synthetic meats pose. If a firm like Courtaulds is sufficiently interested to enter the synthetic meat field, then it must realise that there is something in it, particularly as far as profits are concerned. I turn to the economics of the question. A specialist from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, a  Mr N.  D. Honan, has said that soya bean proteins are a much cheaper source of protein than animal products. It is now possible for soya bean protein extenders to increase the normal hamburger mbe by 25 per cent to 30 per cent while maintaining the palpability of the end product. This has resulted in a price reduction of from 65c to 53c per lb in the ingredients of hamburgers. That is a frightening reduction, and if it can be achieved what an impact it will have on our highly priced meat products in the shops. 
It is obvious that an imitation meat industry in Australia would seriously affect our meat industry. Our meat industry comprises thousands of producers running 180 million sheep, 22 million cattle and 6 mil lion pigs. It produces 1,948 million tons of meat a year. For instance, in 1970 our exports of meat to the United Kingdom where the use of synthetic meat is increasing, amounted to 76 million tons of frozen and chilled meat and 6,908,000 tons of canned meat. In that same year our exports were 264 million tons to the United States of America and 67 million tons to Japan. It meant that 76 per cent of our total exports of meat products wont to the 3 countries where the use of synth.'tic meat is increasing rapidly. Our meat industry is a massive industry, and any inroads made by synthetic meats would be serious and they would be felt right throughout the meat industry. There has already been a drop of 10 per cent per person in the consumption of beef in Australia. 
How can we handle this threat posed by synthetic meats? Firstly, as has been mentioned, there is a necessity for labelling legislation, both in the Commonwealth and the State spheres, so that synthetic meat is labelled for what it is not, and that is meat. In the Senate on 30th September last year,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  in reply to a question asked by  Senator Drury,  stated: 
I saw the annual report by the Australian Meat Board. The report stated that the Board was conscious of the threat being posed by the development of synthetic or imitation meats. It was making every endeavour to alert the industry to the dangers of this development. It made the point that immediate legislation was desirable to prevent the use of the word 'meat' in connection with the importation, manufacture or sale of any product other than a recognised meat product. 
In April of this year the Australian Meat Board and the Minister for Primary Industry wrote to the State Ministers responsible for primary industry asking them to examine their respective legislation concerning the labelling and description of such products to ensure that the misdescription with respect to the use of the word meat' does not occur. Currently, the States are reviewing their legislation. 
In fact, I think that the States should outlaw the use of the term 'meat' when applied to substitutes, and this is also the opinion of  Colonel M.  H. McArthur, the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board. Secondly, the producers of meat, the processors of meat and the retailers of meat must concentrate on quality in order to answer the threat and challenge of imitation meat. They must concentrate more on flavour and tenderness because this is where they will be beaten to the punch by the people producing synthetic meat. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation currently is examining ways of improving what it calls the chewability of our meat products. I have a report before me on that question. As far back as August 1971,  Colonel M.  H. McArthur suggested that a conference of the world's major meat producing countries should be held to consider ways of combating the challenge of synthetic meat. He also urged all concerned to watch the price factor because, as we all know, housewives are sensitive to price and if a thing looks like meat and it is cheaper than the real meat product they will most certainly buy it. In the 'Courier Mail' of Sth August last year  Colonel McArthur  is reported as having said: 
I  forcast  a world shortage of beef after 1975. If this were linked with dangerously high prices,  it  would encourage synthetic production. 
These are some of the factors that we want tho Government to consider. As we are all in favour of action being taken in this matter, the Government has every reason to take such action. 
I. am grateful to the Minister for Primary Industry for his explanation of sub-clause (3.) of clause 7, the last part of which reads:  . . remit the whole or a part of an amount payable under this section. 
Clause 7 (4.) states: 
A remission granted under the last preceding sub-section by an authorised person shall not exceed Ten dollars. 
Is the Minister serious in putting a clause like that in a Bill? I thought that sub-clause (3.) put the Minister in the category of Father Christmas, but when I read subclause (4.) I realised that he was not Father Christmas in any shape or form because the only remission permitted is an amount not exceeding $10. Would the Minister explain why such an amount was put into the Bill? If the Minister were to provide for any remission at all I would have assumed it would be far more generous than that amount. The size of this remission is just ridiculous. To my mind the remission of $10 makes the whole thing appear perfectly ridiculous. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether, as a practical method of assisting Tasmania in its constant and losing battle against Australian National Line shipping freight increases, the Government will consider the following 2 amendments to the Australian Coastal Shipping Act which will reduce Australian National Line costs and stabilise freight rates: First, exemption from interest charges or a big reduction of such charges on .Treasury advances to the Australian National 
Line, and, secondly, the establishment of the Australian National Line's own booking offices in Australia. I also ask: Is the Minister aware that since its creation in 1957 the Australian National Line has paid $23,708,220 in interest charges to the Treasury and that in the same period the Line has paid approximately $30m in commission fees to private shipping companies and others for making Australian National Line bookings as prescribed under the Australian Coastal Shipping Act? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the value of primary industry exports in 1960-61 and 1970-71. 
What was the percentage of these exports to total exports in each of those years. 
What was the value of mineral exports in 1960-61 and 1970-71. 
What was the percentage of these exports to total exports in each of those years. 
I have just heard from the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  the most irrelevant speech that I have heard in this Parliament for a long time, and I have been here nearly as long as the honourable member for Mallee has. He spoke for 13 minutes, but he touched on the subject which we are discussing for perhaps one minute. It was a shocking waste of the time which we are trying to save. 
If this motion is passed it will mean that the Grievance Day debate will go overboard this morning. The Grievance Day debate is essentially for back benchers who have very few opportunities to speak in this Parliament because of the pressure and nature of business. It is so late when we finish at night that usually we are speaking in the adjournment debate near midnight. 
The Grievance Day debate provides an opportunity once a fortnight to back benchers to raise private electoral problems which concern their electorates. The trouble is that we are controlled by the front bench members opposite. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is the best Leader of the House that we have had since I have been in this place - and that is nearly 26 years - has done his utmost to get some planning, common sense and sanity into the conduct of the last fortnight of parliamentary sessions. For the first time in all the years that we have had a Federal Parliament, the Minister for National Development, who is in charge of the House, has insisted that no new legislation shall be introduced into this chamber in the last fortnight of the session, and he has carried that out. One of the things that has been killing honourable members on this side of the House for years has been the introduction of new legislation in the dying hours of a session. To the everlasting credit of the Minister - and as Opposition Whip I say this without any fear of contradiction - this has resulted in a great improvement in the conduct of business at the end of sessions. 
We have always suffered because of the convertina-ing of legislation into the last fortnight of a session. We have been overwhelmed and inundated with legislation. We have had to sit until 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning in order to deal with that legislation. The Minister has tried to bring some order into the conduct of business in the last fortnight of a session. But on this occasion I am utterly opposed to the cancellation of the last Grievance Day debate which will be held during this current session. Parliament will not resume until the middle of August, and then we will be in the Budget session. So it will be a long time before a back bencher has an opportunity to participate in a Grievance Day debate. 
I object to the motion principally because, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  have said, the Grievance Day debate is to be replaced by debate on a subject that has been listed on the notice paper for 2 solid years. We would not have offered such strong opposition to the motion if the subject to be discussed today was an urgent matter of some national importance - something very important that is happening in the country. But it is absolutely wrong to resurrect a dead issue and to dispense with the Grievance Day debate today. We do not have the numbers to defeat the motion, but at least we have the right to object to the motion and to oppose it. 
Last night back benchers on this side of the chamber were delivered a very severe blow to their freedom of speech in this chamber when the adjournment debate was gagged, although 2 honourable members on this side of the House had been promised that they would be allowed to speak in the adjournment debate. Occasionally honourable members opposite go berserk, and they went berserk last night when they gagged the adjournment debate although, as I say, 2 honourable members on this side of the House had been promised that they would be allowed to speak in the adjournment debate. My colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  has been gagged on 2 occasions in the past week when he has attempted to speak in the adjournment debate. This is not freedom of speech. It is late enough to have to speak in the adjournment debate around midnight. 
I know that it is difficult at the end of a session not to do stupid things, but why should we be prevented from having a Grievance Day debate? Why cannot the Parliament sit for an extra week? Why cannot we have next week the Grievance Day debate that is to be cancelled today? We would not mind if that were done. Let us dispense with general business next week and have a Grievance Day debate. After all, on two or three occasions this session we have sacrificed the Grievance Day debate in order to deal with matters under general business which do not concern back benchers at all. The Grievance Day debate should be inviolate; nothing should supplant it. The Grievance Day debate is the hallmark of, and the key to, the back benchers' freedom of speech in this Parliament. 
I am very upset, annoyed and disgusted to think that the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill is to be debated today and that the right to speak in the Grievance Day debate is to be taken away from us. If the Minister can guarantee that we will have a Grievance Day debate next Thursday, we will not call for a division on this motion this morning and so waste a bit more time. Unless he does that, in the mood in which we are this morning, we will call for a division on this motion. There are 2 ways to overcome this problem: Have a Grievance Day debate next Thursday, or allow the Parliament to sit for another week so that we can conclude the remaining items on the notice paper without the necessity to have any more late nights and back benchers would have an opportunity to speak on the adjournment debate. 
This House rose at 2 o'clock yesterday morning and at 1.30 this morning. As I have said previously, tihs must be the craziest Parliament in the world. We are killing ourselves by sitting late. No businessman in this country would ever be working on his business at 2 o'clock in the morning unless there was a crisis in the business and he was going bankrupt, or something like that, and he wanted to find a few more dollars. 
It is bankrupt. 
 I know that the honourable member for North Sydney has been around the world a few times. I still say that this is the craziest Parliament in the world, sitting for theselate hours. I know that the Houses of Commons in both Canada and the United Kingdom sit late On occasions, but usually it is at the very end of a session. We thought that we were getting along fine under the new arrangement with no late nights, but already this week we have sat past midnight on 2 occasions. I think that there will be a lot of opposition from this side of the House if we sit past midnight regularly next week, which is supposed to be the last week of the session. It would be saner for the Parliament to sit a couple of extra days so that we could deal with the business in an orderly fashion and not overwork members. That would be the best way in which to conclude the business. I protestthis morning at the disappearance of this week's Grievance Day debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Will the honourable member for Riverina bear with me for one moment? Did the Minister move the motion? 
That the question be now put. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister initiate urgent investigations into the disposal of Commonwealth funds through wool subsidy payments to Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd and British 
Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd and inform the Parliament of the amounts that these and other wool broking firms have received? Will the Minister confirm that Dalgetys has closed more than 100 of its country offices and has determined on a policy of withdrawal from the Australian countryside? ls the Minister aware that money paid by the Commonwealth Government and presumably intended for wool growers has been used by these firms to facilitate the takeover of Australian enterprises in capital cities? Will the Minister agree- 
The debate on this Bill is a very worth while one. The legislation is a very worth while contribution from the Commonwealth to help the States in their softwood forestry programmes to the extent of $21m over the next 5 years. In my short address tonight. I will try not to cover the matters already raised by preceding speakers. A conference which will be held in April 1974 in Canberra could be a milestone in the co-ordinated development of forest based industries in Australia. This conference will be attended by 500 people including representatives from private industry, from the State forest services, Commonwealth organisations, research bodies and conservation groups. The conference will consider forest resources, multiple use of forests, the economics of for estry, development based on this economic survey and also research and training of personnel. The initiative for the conference has come from the Australian Forestry Council and private enterprise. I commend the conference to the House and to the country. The conference could bring about what the Opposition desires in its amendment. One section of the Opposition's amendment is that the Government should bring forward a national plan for afforestation in Australia with the help of the States and the full use and development of Australia's forest resources. This sort of conference, which is the first of its kind, could go a long way in starting the ball rolling towards fulfilling the desire expressed by members of the Opposition in this debate tonight. 
I would now like to come to some of the facts about Tasmanian forestry. The wood chip industry is the latest development of forestry in Tasmania and 3 wood chip companies are now operating there. The Associated Pulp and Paper Manufacturers wood chip enterprise at Long Reach on the east Tamar river is to sell 900,000 tons of wood chips per year to Japan. Northern Woodchips has contracted to supply 700,000 a year. This means that a total of 1,600,000 tons will be sold by these 2 companies each year. The third company, which started first on the east coast of Tasmania at Triabunna is exporting about 800,000 tons each year. Regeneration of the forests from which this timber is coming is the concern of everyone who loves trees. The Tasmanian Forestry Department is assisting in most of this work in respect of the company stationed at Triabunna which is obtaining 85 per cent of its timber from crown land. But we are very concerned about timber which is coming from private property where there is no such programme of regeneration as there is on the Crown land divisions. We believe that a lot of work has to be done in this field across the private sector. 
There are approximately one million acres of productive private forests in Tasmania of which pulp and paper companies own 230,000 acres to grow timber for their own requirements. The Tasmanian division of the Institute of Foresters is concerned that private forests cannot sustain cuts at the level at which the wood chip companies are seeking to meet the Japanese demands. They argued that if 770,000 acres of private forest were managed for pulpwood production on a rotation of 40 years the annual sustained yield would be as low as 770,000 tons. The Institute said that it guessed that the present total volume of pulpwood on the same area would be 30,800,000 tons and that, at the proposed level of exports, this resource would be cut out in IS to 20 years. It said that a cut-out-get-out policy for private forests would have several undesirable consequences: Firstly, a sudden drop in employment when the contracts expired; secondly, the elimination in 40 to SO years of the possibility of the establishment of a pulp mill based on this resource; and, thirdly, the discouragement of the regeneration programme for private forests due to the uncertainty of future markets. Of course, forests have more important uses than the mere provision of woodchips and building timber. Forests provide also water catchment areas, wildlife habitats and recreational and scenic attractions. They are a priceless heritage of any country. They must never be destroyed haphazardly without thought, planning or regeneration programmes. 
This Bill provides for money to be loaned to the States for the planting of softwoods. Such a loan scheme could give State governments a chance to help in  a  private forest regeneration programme.  Mr Reece,  who is the new Premier of Tasmania, made a statement at his first Press conference after his re-election as Premier. A report on this Press conference stated: 
The new Labor Government may legislate to control reforestation on private land. 
At his first Press conference since taking over the Government, the Premier  (Mr Reece)  yesterday was asked to amplify a statement in his policy speech about reforestation. 
The statement said: 'The co-operation of owners of forest resources on private land will be sought and appropriate legislation introduced to achieve proper economic use and restoration of that section of the forest asset.' 
He was asked if this meant that the legislation would control reforestation of private land used for such things as woodchips. 

 Mr Reece said: 
The intention is to do this.' 
But he added that the whole question of the use of forest resources would have to be thoroughly examined before a decision was made on what form the legislation, if any, would take. 
There are a number of uses to which private lands can be put,' he said. 
Some of it may, well go to agriculture while it would be appropriate for other sections to be preserved for forestry purposes. 
What we will be hoping to do is to ensure that the general forest assets are not depleted by lack of reasonably controlled  reforestration 
This will have to be examined by the Minister and will be the subject of consultation with the officers of the Forestry Commission to see what the best course is to be and the manner in which legislation, if it is introduced, should be drafted.' 

 Mr Reece said he envisaged that if such legislation was introduced, it would require farmers using land for woodchips to have a proper reforestation programme. 
We do not want the tourist aspect to be completely disputed', be said. 
Proper control of forest assets was essential from a national and economic viewpoint if Australia was not to be saddled with tremendous imports of forest products. 
A statement such as that is to be commended. We are worried that the Tasmania private forest sector, which is linked to the woodchip industry, could be a disastrous side of the entire enterprise. Crown land is being and will continue to be reforested, but there is no control over private land. The State Government of Tasmania is looking at the possibility of introducing legislation to make it obligatory for private farmers selling timber to woodchip companies to have a proper reforestation programme, unless they intend to use the cleared land for agricultural purposes. Of course, no one would object to that. However, if the private landowners are not using the land for agriculture it must be resown as forest. A government could step in here and help them in several ways. 
I shall conclude by referring to a statement from  Mr Paul  Jones, who addressed a real estate investment symposium in Sydney on 7th February last year.  Mr Jones  said: 
Australia would be spending S700m a year to import timber by the year 2000 at the  present  rate of planting and consumption. . . . 
Timber had recently displaced oil as Australia's largest single import. 
It is tragic that Australia should now be importing more timber than oil.  Mr Jones  is agencies manager for New South Wales for Plantation Management Pty Ltd, which is managing 4 forestry developments on Queensland's Gold Coast. He knows what he is talking about. He continued: 
It's time private enterprise showed initiative by investing capital in, and developing forestry which is Australia's fifth largest industry. 
Government largely controls forestry but funds available to it are not enough for adequate afforestation, even for present requirements. 

 Mr Jones went on to say: 
Softwood plantings of 75,000 acres a year are needed to keep pace with Australia's requirements as outlined during the 1960s. 
Yet in 1968 the annual plantings were only 62,500 acres. 
The price of softwood limber which has risen by nearly 300 per cent in 20 years will rise even higher because of world-wide shortage. 
This point was outlined by my colleagues the honourable members for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and Riverina  (Mr Grassby). Mr Jones  continued:   . . timber price rises, the world-wide shortage, inadequate Government spending on afforestation, and listed companies' return on capital from integrated forestry were reasons why private enterprise should involve itself in forestry development. 
Some investors avoided investment in forestry because of the 20-25 years needed for trees to mature for use as sawn timber. 
However, some trees were ready after 10 years. 
Of course, that is true. Trees mature faster in certain types of soil than in others. In pinewood plantations in Tasmania, the trees are ready in 10 years. In Tasmania, the old, isolated, twisted timber has been bulldozed from tens of thousands of acres of sparse hill,ides and beautiful pine plantations have been planted in their place.  Mr Jones  concluded his speech by making some suggest ions and be mentioned incentives which could be provided by governments. These included: 
Tax rebates through deductibility for one-third of calls on shares for approved afforestation. 
The rebate provided an immediate return on capital of between 8) and 22 per cent depending on the tax rate of the investor. 
Ownership of the forestry land. 
Capital growth  from  conversion of the land to real estate. 
There are other ways in which a government could help private enterprise reforest. It is about time that the Government examined this aspect instead of merely forming out to State governments large sums of money which is used to assist not private enterprise but government controlled enter prise. I think we could greatly help the rate of reforestation if the Government could devise a taxation rebate scheme to encourage investment by private enterprise in reforestation. 
Finally, I would just like to mention what happened in New Zealand. In 1935 New Zealand Forest Products Ltd was formed to plant radiata pine, which is not a native of New Zealand but of California. It was found that the soil types in New Zealand were the same as those in California. The company sold bonds and undertook to plant one acre for each bond sold. I remember when I was living with my father on a farm in the Wimmera district of Victoria in the 1930s that we had agents from New Zealand selling these sorts of bonds to the Wimmera wheat farmers. Some bought them but others did not have enough money to invest in that sort of a venture because they were just struggling out of the depression. But at that time I can remember quite distinctly these men selling bonds for acres of forest in New Zealand. Many of us thought that it was a haywire dream, but what happened? Later the bond holders were issued with shares in the company in exchange for their bonds. Today a giant enterprise has been established in New Zealand which has total annual sales of nearly $100m. An area of 320,000 acres are under forest, and plans are in hand to incrase it to 400,000 acres. This is an example of what can happen when men with vision start to plant trees. I hope that this Government will go on and provide asistance to private enterprise to enable it also to participate in the reforestation programme. 
Is the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that 95 per cent of Tasmania's cargo trade is carried by sea, with no road or rail alternatives as on the mainland? Has the Minister power to cancel out, in the public interest, a decision of the Australian National Line to increase freight rates? Is he aware of the recent freight rate rise which has again cast a blow at Tasmania's economy, especially at the tourist trade? Finally, will this Government seriously consider a freight subsidy as was paid in the days when the 'Taroona' operated across the Strait? The position today is much worse than it was then. 
This is a blatantly political Budget, worse than any that has gone before it. It has one overriding purpose, namely, to save the McMahon-Anthony-Gair Government. It is a crusade for votes in Australian ballot boxes in November. It is a document which spreads largesse to many sections of the community - to taxpayers and pensioners in particular. But only. 20 per cent of taxpayers will collect 50 per cent of the tax concessions. The Budget was called by one newspaper a 'bonanza Budget', costing an extra $780m in a full year. During the last election campaign members of the Government Parties asked the Labor Party where the money would come from to finance its proposed programme. We now ask this Government where its money will come from to enable it to spend such an enormous extra amount in one year. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has budgeted for a $602m deficit. This is unheard of in this country's federal history. Yet the Government criticised Labor a few elections ago when it advocated a SI 20m deficit Budget. According to the Government that was outrageous, bad finance, haywire thinking and planning. The Government is now planning a S602m deficit in the Budget to save the Right Honourable William McMahon and his patchwork quilt Government. 
A cartoon appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on 15th of this month which sums the whole situation up beautifully, though it has not one word written under it. The Prime Minister is depicted on a battered hillside flat on his stomach in the role of a wild west gunman with boots, spurs, gun belt and all.  His  cart is smashed to pieces, the rocks are bullet marked and underneath his gun lies a heap of empty shells. 
His cartridge belt is empty except for one remaining bullet. Billy reaches back to collect from the belt the last bullet which is marked 'Budget'. I think that is a superb cartoon and there is not one word beneath it. But I would entitle it 'Billy's last stand'. He is the current Custer, and truly it is his last stand. 
The Budget had to be political because it has to save this Prime Minister, his Cabinet and his Party. It is the Prime Minister's last bullet, his last chance to save this Government. But will this Budget with $434m of tax cuts, SI 60m extra for social services and repatriation benefits, plus millions of dollars in other concessions, in fact save this Government? That is what we are all asking. That is the $64 question in Australia today. 
Yes. The answer to that question is no. Only 3 years ago the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  brought down an election year Budget proposing a 9 per cent reduction in taxation. This was outstanding and excessive up to that time. But what happened? He Jost 17 seats. Labor won 72 out of 126 seats at the last Federal election and should have been the government according to the country's first preference votes. But when the preferences of the Democratic Labor Party and all the other splinter parties were distributed we lost 13 of those 72 seats and finished with 59 members to 66 in this present Parliament. Why did a 9 per cent tax cut fail to win  Mr Gorton  extra seats at that election and instead lost him 17? It was because the people at that time had lost faith in  Mr Gorton's  handling of the nation's affairs. They had lost confidence in the coalition Government. It is as simple as that. 
And what about the McMahon Budget with its 10 per cent tax cuts - 1 per cent better than  Mr Gorton's  Budget? What has been the reaction around Australia? I have travelled over 1,100 miles in the last fortnight in my electorate alone. What is the reaction from the Press and what is the result of spot checks by radio, such as when 25  Mr Browns  and 25  Mr Smiths  were telephoned in Sydney and asked: 'What do you think of the Budget? How are you going to vote?' In that poll 47 per cent of them said Labor, 41 per cent said Liberal and 2 per cent said DLP. A neighbour of mine from Tasmania, who is at Surfers Paradise at the moment, sent back a message tonight about his campaign through New South Wales and Queensland. He has been talking to businessmen. He has found the same reaction there as I have found in my own electorate. I am convinced that all the benefits, even though they are welcomed by all concerned, will not save the McMahon Government. The people are saying: 'It is an election Budget. It is buying votes. It is election bait. Why was this type of Budget not presented last year to prevent the massive unemployment, with its suffering and frustration?' That is the reaction from around the country. 
This reaction proves that people will not be fooled again and that other factors are forming their decisions that have nothing to do with finance, nothing to do with wages, nothing to do with concessions in this Budget and nothing at all to do with money. The Treasurer has badly miscalculated the mood of the Australian electorate if he thinks that he can bribe his way back into office in November. The Government has lost touch with the people of this country. The Budget will not save the McMahonAnthonyGair Government because the people have already made up their minds to get rid of it after 23 years of liberalism under  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Holt, Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon. 
Why have they made up their minds so early and why will this Budget not change their present thinking? Because they have lost confidence in this Government. Businessmen - not traditional Labor supporters - executives, farmers and employees alike have lost faith in this Government. The electors have examined the Government's performance - not its handouts - its leadership, its constant changes of leadership and Cabinet Ministers, its personality clashes, its indecision, its failure to halt inflation and to control prices and foreign investment, and its failure to smash unemployment. They have decided, after examining these factors, that this Government is finished. The people have opted for a change, and the elections cannot come quickly enough for them. 
Let me give an illustration of the mood of this country today. It was the same in 1949. I was here during the term of office of the Chifley Government, from 1946 to 1949. Nothing that Ben Chifley or that Government could have done in that last Budget in 1949 would have saved that Government, because the people had made up their minds 6 months before 10th December 1949 that the Chifley Government was going. So it went. 
Because the people were tired of controls, not because of maladministration. The people wanted a change, and nothing we could have done could have saved us. Nothing this Government can do can save it, either, because the same mood exists in the people throughout Australia today. 
If you like, yes, or the guillotine. This Budget makes no in-depth attack on the basic economic ills - at this time. It views the economy only in terms of electoral advantage and electoral mileage. It is an absolutely unprecedented political document from the beginning to the very end. There is no guarantee that increasing money in pay packets will stimulate business, as the Government hopes. The average taxpayer and pensioner will spend their extra money on everyday commodities, but the middle and high income earners will not spend their money in this fashion at all. Probably it will be banked by that group of taxpayers. Unless this new money is circulated through the community, how can it stimulate business? How can it reduce unemployment? How can it open more factories? How can it expand present production? How can it increase consumer demand? The spending and the investment of savings in capital expenditure sufficient to boost industry and employment will come only when taxpayers have confidence in their Federal government. 
The slowdown in the past 12 months admitted by the Treasurer is substantially due to the sheer lack of faith in the McMahon Government. The slowdown has been very marked in the business, community, which normally supports liberalism. The Budget Papers show that company tax fell short of the 1971-72 estimate by $37m. This proves just how slow business has been. People have banked their savings. Why have savings bank deposits gone up and up in Australia? Because the people have not had enough confidence to spend their money or to invest it. The huge increase in deposits proves this. But what good is money in the bank to an economy? We could have all the money placed in the bank and we could be in another depression. Only finance circulating stimulates an economy. Only when faith returns and confidence is reborn will increased spending money really be circulated to any degree of influence upon the business community or business recovery. That is why Australia needs a new government with new vision, new energies and new policies to take charge here in Canberra. I hope Australia will achieve that in November. 
This Budget will encourage inflation. The word 'inflation' was mentioned only once in the whole of the Treasurer's speech. Because this Budget is absolutely inflationary, it could mean a mini-Budget next April - whoever wins the election- to correct the galloping inflation that will be caused. Thus it is an election Budget-r-a short term Budget devoid of long term aims or planning. It could mean the big build-up in 1972 for the big let-down in 1973. This Budget fails to reduce sales tax, as we expected. That would have given some real stimulus to business recovery. The Budget admits, after 23 years of liberalism, that personal taxation is too high. So the Government sets about reducing it. But why did it take 23 years for the Government to wake up to this fact. The reason is that we have to save the Prime Minister at any price. The benefits in the Budget favour the rich in greater proportion than the poor. The gains to the rich are greater. So the Budget gives more to those who do not need it and less to those who do. Further, this Budget fails completely to face the menace of rising costs and prices. This was not even mentioned in the Budget Speech, and this is the Achilles heel of our economy. 
The Budget virtually bypasses the primary producer. It mentions only $20m to be granted for long term low interest loans. The Opposition agrees with this, but what is $20m when primary producers are in debt to the extent of $2,100m? The Country Party and the Liberal Party are wrangling over whether a rural bank will be established. The Country Party members are going around the country telling everybody that a rural bank will be established, but the Prime Minister will have nothing of it. He has disagreed with the Leader of the Country Party on this very point. No mention of a rural bank was made in the Treasurer's Budget Speech when he referred to rural lending facilities. He said: 
The measures to be adopted have still to be finalised; the intention is to bring down legislation in this session of the Parliament. 
So, there is a first class wrangle in the Government ranks over whether there will be a rural bank to handle this $20m plus the many more millions that will be necessary. 1 want to mention 3 points relating to Tasmania in particular. One method by which we might be able to help Tasmania survive economically would be for the Federal Government to consider declaring Tasmania a duty free Stale. The Government should consider putting the island on a similar footing to Fiji, Singapore, Aden, Hong Kong and Norfolk Island. These isolated areas, 4 of which are islands, have for years survived the competitive struggle by being duty free areas. More and more is it obvious that Bass Strait is Tasmania's nemesis. It is our Waterloo. I am convinced that in a few years we will have an impoverished economy, because of increased shipping freights which are striking a mortal blow at existing industries and preventing the establishment of others. Tasmania must have some advantage to counteract this Bass Strait nemesis. This is a fact because ali the evidence is showing that all the increases in the freight rates charged by the Australian National Line are killing our industries and putting our economy into a state of stagnation. 
If Tasmania was declared a duty free State a great influx of tourists could be expected. A greater volume of buying would result and business turnover would soar. Tasmania could become the mecca for visitors all over the world, and tourism could become a top income earner for the island, in fact a major industry giving impetus to the building, accommodation, transport and rural industries. It would give Tasmania another economic weapon to help save the island from stagnation and from ending up as an economic Siberia. This source of income could ultimately reduce some of the Commonwealth's financial commitments to the island. 
As a duty free State Tasmania might eventually be able to shake off its utter dependency on Commonwealth handouts, so it could be a great advantage to the Commonwealth if it could help Tasmania, an island in great economic trouble and an island which will be in worse trouble because of increasing ANL freight rates, to become less dependent on the Commonwealth for its finances. I want this possibility to be considered. It is not a ridiculous suggestion. It is the first time it has been put to this Parliament, and it could be the answer to our economic plight. If other countries can do it, we can do it. There would be no constitutional barrier. 
Finally I mention the ANL. In the last 16 years it has paid $30m to agents to handle its bookings and has earned $27m in profits in 14 of its 16 years. It is about time a revolutionary change was made in the handling of the Line's affairs. It has been forced to pay $20m in interest to the Federal Government on money borrowed for capital expenditure. The Federal Government has forced the ANL to increase freight rates. This is a fact. This is brought about by Government legislation, and this Government knows that unless it changes the legislation these freight rate increases will go on and on. I believe that firstly the ANL should operate at cost to Tasmania, which is virtually dependent on the ANL for its survival, with 85 per cent of trade through ANL ships. It is our only sea road, our only bridge to the mainland. Secondly, the ANL should have its own booking office. Thirdly, the interest charged to the ANL should be at a minimal level. Fourthly, if none of this is done a freight subsidy should be paid to the private line operating and the ANL as was done when the 'Taroona' operated many years ago between Tasmania and the mainland. These are sincere suggestions. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  would support most of them. He knows the state the island is in. He knows that we cannot afford any more freight rises. Not only will business not go there but those there will be closing down. I have made these suggestions tonight about the ANL and making Tasmania a duty free State as a sincere effort to try to help Tasmania out of its plight. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the devastating effect of high shipping freights on Tasmania's economy, with firms forced out of business and others discouraged from crossing to the island, will the Government as a matter of extreme urgency repeal section 18 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act thereby releasing the Australian National Line from the necessity to make a profit? Then, will the Government peg sea freights and meet any losses by subsidy? Is the Minister aware that the ANL moves 85 per cent of Tasmania's inward and outward trade and therefore has our economy by the throat and that without sea freight relief the island is heading for economic stagnation, in spite of the excellent work of the Reece Government? 
During my speech on the Budget, I referred to Tasmania's economic difficulties and suggested that one way out of those difficulties would be to make Tasmania a duty free State. I should like to say a little more on that point this morning. During question time today I directed a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  concerning the high freight rates charged by the Australian National Line for goods transported between Tasmania and the mainland. In one of the worst replies I have ever heard in this House, the Minister raved about unions and what they were doing to the ANL, as though they were the cause of all of Tasmania's troubles. The fact is that freight rates for most commodities have increased by 30 per cent in the last 2 years. I do not know how an island with an island economy, which is as isolated as Tasmania is and with a population of under 400,000, can continue meeting this type of freight rise. 
If we cannot get justice in our freight systems, it ultimately will be the end of many of Tasmania's basic industries. 
We have asked time and again for freight subsidies. This morning I asked the Government to repeal section 18 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act to relieve the requirement that the ANL be a profit-making concern. Why should the Government not repeal this section? When the Australian Labor Party becomes the government, it will be looking at Tasmania's freight problems very closely and I am hoping that one of the solutions we will provide to the whole situation is to repeal section 18. After all, the ANL has made a profit of S26m since 1957 when it first came into being. Had the Line not been required to make profits, we could have had freights at a reasonable and economic level. But because the ANL is forced to make profits it has to keep pushing up its freight rates to come within the framework of the Act under which it is operating and as this Government formulated it. 
If the Government will do something about stabilising and subsidising freight rates, Tasmania will have to look for other ways of trying to strengthen its economy to make it viable. The suggestion that Tasmania should be a duty free State is made in that context. It is a suggestion born of desperation, for Tasmania is losing industries and other industries are not prepared to come to Tasmania because of the present cost of freighting goods across Bass Strait. If Tasmania were a duty free State, it would receive a tremendous boost in tourism. From the comments I read after making my speech on the Budget concerning this matter, the suggestion received a very favourable reaction. Of course, I do not have time to develop it again in detail this morning. Tasmania is sick and tired of being called a mendicant or a  Cinderella  State. We are one of the poor relations of the Commonwealth. Admittedly we get more back in grants than we pay in taxes, but the Commonwealth Constitution makes it incumbent on the Commonwealth Government to make Tasmania a viable State in spite of that fact. 
Throughout the years we have laboured under problems and difficulties. The one that hit us the hardest was the increase in freight rates across Bass Strait. The Aus tralian National Line has been a wonderful boost to our island. Eighty-five per cent of our freight in and out is carried by ANL ships. But when so much is carried by one line it shows what a monopoly it has over the island. If we could reduce freights and peg them and if the Commonwealth Government would subsidise any losses this would have a tremendous impact on Tasmanian industry, Tasmanian employment and the encouragement of other industries to come to our island where hydro-electric power is the cheapest source of power in Australia. 
At the moment the Constitution makes it impossible for Tasmania to become a duty free State without a referendum. Sections 51, 88, 92 and 99 all make it specific that trade, commerce and intercourse among the States shall be absolutely free. Section 51 (ii.) reads: 
Taxation; but so as not to discriminate between States or parts of States. 
Section 99 reads: 
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
But the Constitution does not say anything about the disadvantage of a State being recognised by the Commonwealth. I say quite clearly now that, although the Constitution specifically says that no State shall be advantaged over another State, the reverse is absolutely true also, that no State should be disadvantaged over any other State. I could spend half an hour this morning showing, point by point, how Tasmania is disadvantaged, because it is an island and because of its isolation. If that fact alone cannot convince the other States that we need some special assistance down there in the form of a duty free status, I do not know what can convince them. 
I have been provided with some figures by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. They show that in terms of personal income per head of population Tasmania ranks lowest in Australia. In 1968-69 the figure was 85.3 per cent and in 1969-70 it was 85.8 per cent. The next lowest is Queensland. For 1969-70 Queensland's figure was 88.3 per cent. The fact that Tasmania has the lowest percentage of personal income per head of population is very important. This should be taken into consideration when the Commonwealth is trying to assist us. The Australian Grants Commission works within a very narrow charter. It grants us special money as a mendicant State but it also disadvantages us. It reduces the expenditure if we go beyond the level of the mainland States in items such as social services, forestry and transport. We are a disadvantaged State beyond any doubt. 
When I spoke on the Budget I thought that if all the States agreed to give Tasmania a duty free status we would get it, but the researchers in the Library have pointed out to me that we cannot do it that way. We can do it by referendum, which is a cumbersome process, but we cannot do it by the States agreeing to it. So it boils down to a referendum, which one is loath to recommend. But if the Government cannot help this disadvantaged State in the matter of freights and in the matter of grants, maybe in the not too distant future we will have to go to a referendum to ask the people of Australia to give Tasmania this avantage. A duty free status would be an advantage but would be inconvenient in some respects but it would bring tourists to Tasmania in great numbers. I believe that all States would be advantaged by this because tourists would visit Tasmania on an Australian tour whereas otherwise they may not have come to Australia at all. So the suggestion is not as stupid as it might sound to some people. I make this plea to the Government: The Constitution provides that the Commonwealth can help any State that is in difficulties by direct grants. Perhaps the only feasible way, as the Constitution stands at the moment, is for this Government to lift its grants to our island to bring us up to the level of the mainland States. This is the Commonwealth's responsibility, as I see it, under the constitutional powers. 
I fully support the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  This is a pretty poor way to run the Parliament. I have just heard at this moment that  2  hours ago the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  decided that we should not debate the estimates for the Department of National Development tonight. I do not know what bis purpose is, but it is something that does not go down very well on this side. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  knew about the decision, he had a right to tell me. I have had my team lined up for the whole day to speak on national development and they are all ready to speak. I must protest. I do not speak often in this strain, and do so only when I have cause to do so. I have cause to protest tonight about the arrangement that has been made over our heads. I hope that the new Leader of the House will not adopt this tactic too often because he will be a long way behind the man he succeeded if he tries this stunt. 
 I would like to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair):  Who initiates an inquiry into, a discussion of and the preparation of plans? 
Does the Minister ask the Corporation to do this or can it undertake this of its own free will? 
In other words, the Government can apply pressure to the Corporation if it wants to. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Dr Patterson's)  be agreed to. 
The legislation before the House seeks the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Commission and the Australian Wool Board into the Australian Wool Corporation. The Opposition agrees with this move. It is another milestone in the long road to reform the Australian wool industry. No rural industry has resisted changes for so long or so strongly as the wool industry has. This has been largely because the bulk of its growers and administrative personnel are very conservative minded people. Farmers and graziers have for years been the most conservative sections of the Australian population. But in recent times some remarkable changes have occurred in the thinking of farmers and graziers about the politics, economics and management of their industry and the part that science can play in it. From these changes in their thinking has come this reform which is before the House today. 
Usually, the Government tops off what rural industry has demanded. In other words, the Government waits for a particular industry to make up its mind on reform and then introduces that reform in appropriate legislation. That is the normal procedure. I think that many governments could be a step ahead of industry. After all, we have waited a long time for reform in the wool industry. If this Government had shown more initiative and more courage some of these changes could have been introduced a long time ago. I have always thought that the functions of these 2 segments of the wool industry - that is, the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission - have overlapped. A lot of time has been wasted in some respects and many of their operations have been simply repetitive. The Corporation will clear away all these kinds of difficulties and produce an organisation big enough to tackle further reforms in this great industry. 
It is easier to reform a small industry than a large one. The wool industry is of tremendous significance and scope. There are 80,000 wool growers in Australia. Scores of towns in Australia are maintained by the wool industry. They ride on the sheep's back. Without a strong virile wool industry, these towns would suffer. During the recent crisis in the industry many country towns suffered tremendously because of the failure of wool to attract a satisfactory price. The wool industry is so big that up to 12 months ago it has been responsible for 40 per cent of Australia's export income. That is a tremendous tribute to this industry and to all the men who participate in it. But so badly did the industry go in the last 12 months that the export income from wool, including wool sheepskins, totalled only $634m. This was only 13.3 per cent of the total earnings from all merchandise exported. So the proportion of our export income derived from this industry has fallen in 18 months or so from 40 per cent to 13.3 per cent. 
The price of wool is so important that a difference of lc per kilogram means a variation of about $7m in our annual export proceeds. The price has risen dramatically in recent weeks to a figure which is the best recorded since the early 1950s. It was 28c per lb 12 months ago and today we have reached 80c per lb - an increase of about 300 per cent. I will give an illustration of the change that has suddenly taken place in the demand for wool and the consequent rise in prices. The average bale price last week will easily exceed $200. This is an incredible recovery from the $90 a bale received by growers this time last year. These figures show in a dramatic way how the price has increased by 122.29 per cent in 12 months on a bale basis. Not even the most optimistic grower or administrator in the industry ever dreamed of such a price rise. Surely this is another dramatic warning, that even the wool industry is unstable. Without stabilisation of prices we will have, possibly in the next 5 or 10 years, a further period of slumps and booms in the price of wool, with all the heartache and all the losses it brings to the grower and other people dependent on the industry. So we emphasise in this debate that stabilisation of the industry through the acquisition scheme in particular is the next major reform necessary. We can introduce an acquisition scheme through the Corporation. It has wide powers. It was mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that this could be done through the Corporation at a later date. The machinery is there to do it. We need the will. 
The merging of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into a single entity will permit the integration of research and promotion with the marketing of the clip and thus enable a totally and fully co-ordinated approach to be adopted in stimulating the demand for wool. In March of this year the Australian Wool Industry Conference submitted to the Government proposals recommending the amalgamation of these 2 bodies. In addition the Conference recommended that the new body be equipped with wide powers, including the power compulsorily to acquire the total Australian wool clip. The Government would not accept that proposal; the Randall Committee would not accept that proposal. Its acceptance is the next reform that should take place in this industry because the bulk of the growers now desire it. It has been a long struggle to convince growers that a reserve price plan and an acquisition scheme are 2 essentials to stabilise their industry. 
This is provided for under the terms of the legislation establishing the Corporation. The Corporation could handle this if it so desired, but of course there are difficulties in it: It is mentioned in the Minister's speech and in the Randal Report. The scheme does not go far enough, so far as the Opposition is concerned. If growers need more education to accept the necessity for a compulsory wool acquisition scheme, then, I hope the Government will ensure that they get the information to convince them. The corporation has been set up as a body corporate of 9 members comprising a full time  chairman,  4 wool growers' representatives, a representative of the Commonwealth and 3 other members who possess special qualifications. When the Australian Labor Party forms a Government it will have to take another look at this legislation. 
As to that, the Opposition agrees to the legislation as at this moment, and we. hope that within the next 2 months the corporation will be able to achieve some of its early successes. But when the Labor Party gets down to business, we shall have a chance to see how the corporation is working. We hope sincerely that it is successful in the programme which was outlined in the Minister's speech. 
I should like to bring to the attention of the. House what the Randall Committee reported about acquisition in the report that was brought down on 1st August this year. I read from page 74 of the report the Randall Committee's comments about total acquisition of the clip: 
The high importance placed on this particular power by the AWIC derives from the central and direct control of the clip that it would confer on the Authority, so enabling it effectively to use the additional powers sought in areas such as clip quality control, land transport and shipping. 
The term 'acquisition' can mean different things in different contexts. The AWIC submission defines acquisition as 'the compulsory taking over by; a central organisation of the entire Australian clip, with a variety of options possible for payment of wool growers and for the subsequent disposal of the wool acquired'. 
The report went on: 
The submission recognised the possible need for some derogations from the total acquisition implied, including wool traded interstate and retaining in operation 'efficient commercial innovators' under agreed conditions. The submission acknowledges that it may not be possible or even desirable for the Authority to perform every handling and selling function itself. 
In practical terms the  AWIC's  definition of acquisition envisages the compulsory delivery of wool by growers to stores or agents authorised to handle wool for the Authority and the purchase of this wool by the Authority; it leaves open the method of subsequent disposal of the wool, though it views the auction system as the major avenue of disposal in the foreseeable future. 
That is the Opposition's view, too. The report goes on at page 75 under the heading 'Legal Position': 
With complementary Commonwealth-State legislation comparable to that supporting the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements, it would be possible to establish a single marketing authority with wide powers including compulsory acquisition. This would not, however, prevent transactions interstate which are protected by section 92 and these are important since at the present time more than 11 per cent of the clip is traded interstate. 
Should the States not enact adequate complementary legislation, legal advice is that it is doubtful whether the Commonwealth alone could enact valid legislation relating to: compulsory acquisition of the entire wool clip; enforcement of standards of clip preparation for the entire clip; and of the quality standards for semi-manufactures and finished goods containing wool; control of private buying and selling; enforcement of wool handling and marketing charges; enforcement of terms and conditions of sale of wool; enforcement of wool auction sale offerings. 
So there are difficulties in the whole procedure. For instance the States must agree by enacting complementary legislation. But I feel sure that if a properly co-ordinated acquisition scheme were to be implemented by the corporation and agreed to by the bulk of wool growers the States would not vote against such a proposal. Some very good changes will take place in the industry but before I mention them I would like to say that price stability is needed according to the Victorian Farmers Union and the Victorian Graziers Association. They said that it could be achieved only by acquisition. That is a remarkable decision by those 2 wool growing authorities. They believe that there is an urgent need for wool marketing and handling reform. We believe that within the auction system price stability could be brought about by an acquisition scheme. Some changes in the industry are contemplated. I take as my authority  Mr Bruce  Mackay, project manager of the Australian Objective Measurement Project. He has said that many innovations and techniques would emerge in the next 18 months and that wool sales by description would be tried as an alternative selling method. 

 Mr Mackay believes that like sales by sample and tender, which already are 2 new accepted methods of selling wool, sale by description at first will be used on a small scale but there is no reason why it could not become a popular means of disposing of wool to the trade. Using core test results, buyers could be given a careful and impartial (description of the type of wool on offer.  Mr Mackay  said that the method would be best suited to topmaking  wools and that buyers throughout the world could be sent telex messages of the wool available. They could then place their bids in the normal way. 

 Mr Mackay made several other exciting predictions about changes in the industry in the next year or so. He said that objective measurement would become widely used in the stud merino industry for breeders selecting on fleece weight; that more than 300,000 bales would be core tested this season as part of sales by sample; that many new machines would be developed for measuring wool qualities; that experiments would be made on alternative storage locations for wool sold by sample; and that low cost storage sites would be selected for storing wool while actual sales were held in a different area. He said that this could involve inland storage or the storage of wool at Portland and selling by sample in Melbourne. The concept would have advantages not only for brokers and buyers but also for growers. It would allow wool to be - sold more quickly by, giving an earlier return to growers. He forecast new bale flow patterns for wool entering stores. Bales could be sampled on arrival and then put together when a complete clip had been received. Alternatively, samples could be taken when a clip had been put in lots.  Mr Mackay  also forecast a rather remarkable development in the storing of wool in the open in big, densely packed bales. He said that the method was successfully used in the cotton industry with minor detrimental effect to the fibre. Damage to cotton in very wet periods had been estimated at only 50c a bale. 

 Mr Mackay said that there would be no problems in opening up bales- stored in the open because wool would be sold by sample. He urged growers to press heavier bales of up to 200 kilogrammes. Although bales weighing more than 200 kilogrammes might not be handled by unionists, growers could move into fully mechanical handling. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is laughing. I point out to him that I am quoting the statements of an Australian expert, the project manager of the Australian Objective Measurement Project, which were made .at. Portland only last Friday week. 
I also think he is dead right. In concluding this excellent report on the future of industry-not the past or the present - which is something that a lot more growers should do, -including the honourable member for Wakefield who is interjecting,  Mr Mackay  said: 
Bulk classed wools sold by sample could be put into 1,000 lb bales. Not only would there be transport savings but for the first time wool could attract the attention of big transport handling companies. 
Those are a few thoughts about the future of this remarkable industry. In putting forward our amendment during the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill we of the Opposition will stress again that it does not go far enough and that we need an acquisition scheme, administered by one woo] marketing authority, to complete the reform of this major industry without which this nation would be in a desperate strait economically. The House is in agreement about the establishment of the Australian Wool Corporation. This is a forward move but, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it has to be added to and improved upon. The Corporation has to be used to implement the acquisition scheme. 
It is amazing, you know, how stubborn a government can be over words. Honestly, the draftsmen have a great time preparing Bills. They are the greatest play-arounders with words in the country. We get a fantastic situation in 2 clauses of the Wool Industry Bill Clause 38(1.) of the Bill states: 
The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction; 
In clause 40 they try to repeat much the same thing, but add the words 'or otherwise'. This is just complete hooey. It is just a complete bewildering, stupid omission in one clause as against another. These 2 clauses are concerned with the functions of the corporation. Clause 40 states: 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (4.) of section 20 of this Act, the powers of the Corporation include the power to: 
inspect and appraise wool presented for sale at auction; 
buy wool at auction or otherwise; 
So the Minister has provided for this marketing arrangement in one section of the Bill but will not provide for it in another. 
Yes, that is right. To the architects of words they mean different things, but to the poor old grower they do not mean anything. He must be bewildered trying to work out what is meant by the words which add something in one clause of the Bill and miss them out in another. They are the same provisions. 
The next thing I want to mention concerns the reason why the Government will not accept the Opposition's second amendment to clause 38. If honourable members study paragraph (o) of clause 38 (1.), which has just been referred to by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  and read it carefully they will see it is exactly what we want. Clause 38(l.)(o) reads:  to inquire into (whether alone or in co-operation with other authorities or organisations), and from time to time report to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon methods of marketing wool. 
Then there is the vital parenthesis -  (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of all wool produced in Australia) 
It then says:  and any other matters connected with the marketing of wool; and 
The Opposition wants added after paragraph (o) of clause 38, paragraph (oa) to read:  to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of this Act; and 
The Opposition is only trying to be more specific than what is in paragraph (o) of clause 38 of the Bill. But oh no, the Government could not accept that. We come back to the real reason why. The Government does not want to encourage the acquisition of wool. The Government by knocking out and refusing to accept our simple amendment on this specific point is deliberately saying to the world, the growers, the brokers and the rest: 'We do not favour acquisition.' 
The corporation might come up with a proposal for acquisition. If this Government survives - and of course I do not think it will - I wonder what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who has the power of approval or disapproval under this Bill, would do with such a recommendation. When he took it to Cabinet the Liberals would vote against it and the few Country Party members might vole for it. But they would be outnumbered because the Liberal Party will not have a bar of acquisition. 
I will just tell the Minister what will happen. The Labor Party is going to win 10 or 12 fresh seats and have a majority of 17 in the new Parliament. 
All I am saying is who is going to implement this Bill in a few months' time. The Minister will not be implementing this legislation. He will be sitting on this side of the House if he gets back. I think that this is straw splitting of words. The Government's failure to accept our second amendment is absolute proof that it does not accept acquisition. This is one thing we have got out of the Government tonight anyway. 
The Minister, in describing what was meant by the tree pull scheme said: 
The Commonwealth and the States will , agree on and specify the varieties of trees which may not. be planted to replace trees removed with Commonwealth assistance under the scheme. 
A grower who receives assistance to remove trees will be required to eater into an undertaking not to plant trees of the specified varieties.' 
The undertaking will remain in force for 5 years from the date on which assistance is granted. 
That is very restrictive indeed and I doubt whether the required number of growers will accept this scheme to make a really worthwhile total reduction in tree numbers, in the time remaining to me I' want to speak about the industry generally. The Tasmanian apple and pear industry is punch drunk from the hammer blows of high freights, high internal costs, multiple labels, lack of unified marketing and lack of shipping. 
In my opinion 6 major reforms are needed if this industry is to survive. First, freight rates must be stabilised. A- Labor government will have to enlarge the Australian National Line and give it overseas status outside the Conference Lines, gearing it to compete with Conference fruit ships. Building new ships is costly and slow. We would have to charter suitable ships while buying or building our own. In 1970 freight rates were $2.12 a case; in 1971, $2.24 a case and this year will probably reach $2.60 a case. About 60 per cent of the end product value is going in freights. No Australian primary industry can meet that kind of difficulty' and get its products overseas. High freights is the colossus striding over the fruit industry today. The New Zealand fruit board broke from the Conference Lines 2 years ago. It pays 50c a case less for its fruit than Tasmania pays. It uses Israeli and other vessels. Likewise South Africa is paying $1 less on freight than we are in Tasmania. 
Secondly, we must improve export marketing. Multiple individual labels will have to go. We have had more than 24 of them in Tasmania for years. There are too many different types of containers and cartons. These must be standardised. Under the reorganisations of last year the Tasmanian Fruit Committee became a halfway house between the old system of multiple labels and 18 exporters and the one marketing authority to which a Labor government is committed and which the industry wants. Collective unified handling of the crop is vital to survival. What is required is one marketing authority with one brand, with individual exporters becoming agents of the authority, more central shed inspections, quality being a top priority, lower costs and unified containers. South Africa and New Zealand have proved that this can be done. Of course we need safeguards against over-production. A complete stabilisation scheme with the Commonwealth underwriting and guaranteeing prices needs to be brought in. It needs to be a much improved scheme on the present scheme which is only a halfway house sort of stabilisation scheme. South Africa has placed great emphasis on quality. She cuts out all the varieties that are not wanted. In 1970-71 about 800,000 cases were thrown out. 1 believe this must happen under an Australian scheme but we would have to compensate growers whose fruit was rejected in this way. 
Thirdly, a unified effort is required to build up the South East Asian and Japanese markets, especially as Britain is entering the European Economic Community. Britain's entry into the Common Market makes it drastic that we should find better markets in the South East Asian area. We must cater for their likes with apples. The red delicious apple is the favourite in Asia so we must concentrate on this variety if we want to win this market. We have given them poor advice in the past through our exporters. Damaged fruit has gone to Asia and our image has been downgraded. This must be rebuilt. 
Fourthly, we need a reduction in local costs of production and presentation. Carton costs have been rising steadily and are now approximately 65c a carton. We need a system of bulk containers, thus saving time in packing and reducing the danger of damage on unloading of fruit at the port of entry to the markets. I believe that growers have been penalised by a tariff protected carton making industry. We need a bulk container suitable for the carriage of our apples. 
Fifthly, we need better arrangements in the United Kingdom for the disposal and sale of our fruit. As 60 per cent of our fruit is marketed in the London area our fruit should go to London. Instead our fruit ships are being directed to Liverpool and to Hull at odd times and fruit has to be brought from these cities to London sometimes at 12c a bushel extra. This cost is loaded on to the English consumer's price. This is a disastrous system. The  chairman  of the New Zealand marketing board has said: 
We have a flexible shipping system to allow our London office to place the fruit on the correct market. 
What we need is a flexible system. The South African board sends all its fruit to London. That board directs and regulates the fruit on to the local market on demand. It stores thousands of cases for disposal on demand. Sometimes 500,000 cases of South African apples are in store in London when the Australian fruit hits the market. During recent years Tasmania's share of the southern European market has fallen. In the United Kingdom its share has fallen from 36 per cent to 30 per cent whereas New Zealand has maintained its share and South Africa has increased its share by 13 per cent. As I said, New Zealand got away from the Conference Lines 2 years ago. This has been the salvation of its industry. Until we get outside the Conference Lines by chartering other ships or putting our own ANL ships into the field we will be crushed and forced to close up shop with our apple exporting industry. 
Finally, a stabilisation scheme should be welcomed by the exporters. With one marketing authority we should guarantee a set payment for the fruit. So exporters, who would be the one marketing authority, should welcome a stabilisation scheme to enable debts to be paid to those to whom they are owed. In fact, about Slim was owing in Tasmania 12 months ago to the exporters. Under one marketing authority the exporters would become agents. No longer would they be able to export in their own right and thus one marketing authority would revolutionise our industry. It would set up processing factories to make juice and cider to use up surplus production. Centralised packing sheds, few in number, would be established. At the moment there are 700 in Tasmania. One marketing authority would lift the quality of our exports by means of a better inspection system. It would operate the stabilisation scheme. It would control labelling and container types. In fact, it would bring labelling under one label such as South Africa and New Zealand have. They each have one set mark which is known throughout the United Kingdom. We have 20-odd marks or labels and we have been putting up with them in Tasmania for 50 years. This authority would book shipping, negotiate freights, set up two or three licensed agents in the United Kingdom, organise and unify marketing procedures, upgrade selling techniques, speak with one voice in seeking out new markets throughout the world and give growers a new sense of security, protection and leadership. This is what one marketing authority would do for Australia, particularly for Tasmania, where 70-odd per cent of our apples are grown for export. This Government has so far not agreed to setting up one marketing authority, but a Labor Government will do so. It is wanted by the industry. It is so much wanted that without it this industry is doomed. 
It is sheer arrogance for the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  and those sitting behind him to give the impression to the Committee this afternoon that they know everything about everything. The great fault of this Government is that it is the know-all Government all the time. Having been here since 1946, I have known a few governments. I have seen and watched them in action. This is a know-all government, the biggest know-all government of all time. 
The Opposition has moved a series of responsible amendments to a new Bill, the provisions of which have not been tried before and have not been put to the Parliament before. Government members have the sheer, colossal arrogance to stand on their side and to tell us that we do not know what we are talking about. Our committees have given a tremendous amount of work to this subject As a matter of fact, honourable members would see that we were thinking of it long before the Government was, if the chronology were known. To charge us specifically that, because we wish to establish a pre-school commission, we wish tocontrol this child care concept like some octopus or some Federal colossus is just sheer humbug. We have no such intention at all. The only purpose of this commission would be to co-ordinate the work of the private organisations that we and the Government wish to help. We must not let the Government get away with the idea that the Opposition wishes to establish a dictatorship which will control this scheme from Canberra. We have no such intention. I leave that thought with the Committee before it votes on our amendments. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Beazley's)  be agreed to. 
I have never seen this type of introduction to a Bill in all the years I have been in this place. We felt, when examining it, that the move to write into it that the Bill could be repealed in approximately 12 months time or less- 
I know. Members of the Opposition felt that this provision had some ulterior motive - that the Government was making a big splash to try to convince the Australian people that it was really interested in takeovers but was providing that the legislation would operate for 12 months or less and then be repealed. Will the Treasurer be more specific in his explanation that this is an interim Bill? What exactly does he mean by that? Does he say that another and more powerful Bill will be introduced to take the place of this Bill? This can be interim only if other legislation is to replace it. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. Is it a fact that overseas shipowners are seeking another 15 per cent rise in freight rates to carry our fruit to Europe next season? Is the Minister aware that already overseas freights at about $2.50 a case for Australian apples and pears to Europe take up 60 per cent of the price received for the fruit? Because the industry cannot absorb further freight rises without disaster, will the Government as a matter of urgency either subsidise overseas freights next season or charter Israeli and Swedish ships to carry our fruit outside the conference line shipping monopoly as New Zealand is doing at 50c a case less? 
Has the Minister for Transport any plans to relieve the Bass Strait shipping freight crisis? He will recall the present Prime Minister guaranteeing in Hobart during the election campaign that Tasmania would not be disadvantaged in respect to shipping freights as compared with freight rates on the mainland. Will the Minister give consideration to removing this considerable disadvantage by introducing a shipping freight subsidy to trans-Bass Strait shipping services? 
After listening to the speech from the prophet of disaster, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  I suggest that we give him a single ticket to the Philippines, for he would be much happier there than he is in Australia. I congratulate the new  Speaker  on his elevation to that very important responsibility and congratulate him on the way he has carried out his duties so far. I congratulate also the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who moved and seconded the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-iReply which we are debating at the moment. Their maiden speeches were outstanding contributions from 2 new members of the Parliament. As a veteran of this place, and having heard hundreds of maiden speeches since I entered the Parliament, I believe that the standard of speeches I have heard on this occasion has been the highest I have ever listened to from any party in this House. This augurs well for the standard of debate throughout this term of Parliament. 
The maiden speeches to which I referred took me, back 26i years to the Address-in-Reply debate of November 1946, the beginning of the Chifley Government's last term. On that occasion I had the honour of moving the Address-in-&gt;Reply after having won the seat of Wilmot for the first time on 28th September that year by 843 votes. 
One cannot but feel a surge of emotion at the Labor Party again occupying the Treasury bench. It is 23i years since I spoke from this side of the chamber. Only the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and myself have survived the vicissitudes, crises and electoral swings of the past 231 years. I was surprised to read in the 'Australian' of last Friday that Alan Ramsay did not know that I had been a member of this Parliament for all that time, so this afternoon I correct the record for the benefit of the Australian'. Only 3 of the 125 members of this House were here when the last Labor Government was in office. It is a thrilling, satisfying experience to be still a member of. this Parliament when Labour returns to office after all those years in a political Siberia. One of the great realities of parliamentary life is the fact that, as Saint Paul said in his Letter to the Hebrews, Chapter 13, verse 14, 'here we have no continuing city'. He must have had in mind members of Parliament when he wrote those, words. It is a dangerous, exciting, but short life to so many new men who, with high hopes and aspirations, first take their seats in this Parliament. They may be here 3 years, 6 years or 9 years, and then suddenly it is all over. Suddenly the people have spoken with that frightening and ruthless finality which only a ballot box can record, and some members are no longer in this Parliament. 
The average length of service in this House since Federation has been just under 10 years. Anyone surviving beyond that length of service is on borrowed political time. But the political demise of individual members is much more frequent than that of governments. A long time has elapsed since there was a change in the Australian government. Who would have thought in 1949 when Ben Chifley lost 12 seats, including the seats of 4 Ministers, that it would be the end of 1972 before another Labor Government was elected. Nobody in Australia could have imagined that it would have been so many years before we regained office. I have sat in Opposition for so long that 5 anti-Labor Prime Ministers have been in office in my time here, namely,  Mr Menzies, Mr Holt, Mr McEwen,. Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon.  Nothing is more frustrating, more heartbreaking, more chilling or more depressing than to sit in Opposition for 23 years. Although I was Opposition Whip for 17 years, which is a record period for a person to hold the office of Whip of a major Party in the Federal Parliament - when Labor was elected to government I did not desire to contest the position of Government Whip - and although I found myself completely and fully occupied as Opposition Whip, it was maddening sitting in Opposition to see the Liberal Party-Country Party coalition returned to power with monotonous regularity at 9 elections. 
That is very true. They had 3 lucky escapes in 1954, 1961 and in 1969. The previous government remained in office all those years, often thieving Labor's policies to stay there. To emphasise how long we have been out of Government, let me remind this House that no-ohe under the age of 38 in Australia today remembers the Chifley-Labor Government. Two decades of Australians have grown up within the shaky shadow of a Liberal-Country Party coalition government. 
But at last the electorate caught up with that Government. It had to in the end. But the question was whether we would live long enough to be here when it did. The election of 2nd December 1972 will come to be recognised as a turning point in Australia's history. Twenty-seven new members were elected to the Parliament, mostly men under 45 years of age. There are 16 new Labor members, 8 new Liberal members and 3 new Country Party members elected to the Federal Parliament. This means that 22 per cent of the members have come in for the first time. That is a very big changeover in personnel indeed. 
The electorate has trusted Labor, at last, with the huge responsibility of governing this nation. It is both a thrilling and a humbling experience. Brand new Ministers tackle untried tasks and make nation-shaping decisions. They are all on unfamiliar ground. They have to learn about their departments and their personnel. They run head-on into bureaucracy or departmentalism. They find themselves armed with executive power, both exciting and frightening. They suddenly wish each day was twice as long to help them cover the colossal work load involved in the far-reaching scope of a new sphere of action. 
It is therefore time for tolerance and a fair go by everybody in Australia. Our Ministers have performed exceptionally well so far, in my opinion. Perhaps it is appropriate to remind the House that Labor has served a record apprenticeship and a record probation period in preparation for government. Perhaps it is not unusual that our Ministers are doing such a good job. The prayers of thousands of Australians are directed at this Parliament and particularly the new Government and its Ministers. But let me add a warning: This is not a time for smart Alec decisions. This is not a time for arrogance. This is not a time for swelled heads. This is not the time for knowallism This is not the time for frothy enthusiasms. This is not the time for intellectual snobbery. This is not the time for youthful superiorities. 
We have a long time yet. This is the time for a realistic appraisal of what the formidable task of being a Minister involves. It is the time for humility. The greatest in this world are not the most arrogant but the most humble How well I remember what happened in 1949 among some of Chifley's Ministers who forgot the axiom that true greatness is won through true humility. It is the time for learning about responsibility. It is the time to seek advice. It is not the time to think one knows everything about everything. It is the time to keep physically and mentaly fit, for one needs the constitution of an ox to stand up to the pressures and challenges of long hours of Cabinet responsibility. 
I have seen Ministers through the years wilt under the pressure of the long hours imposed on them here. They must work much longer than the ordinary member, trying to keep on top of their correspondence and their responsibilities. I have been a member of this Parliament much longer than 90 per cent of the new Cabinet. I make no apology for expressing these thoughts and warnings at this exciting time in Labor's history. 
When the Australian people elected us to Government, and turned out of office the Liberal-Country Party coalition they accepted a whole new range of ideals and ideas and of policies and objectives. These policies, when implemented by the Whitlam Government, will change the face of Australia. I have no doubt of this at all. I hope and I pray that this will be for the better, and I hope and 1 pray that all the Opposition members will feel that it is for the better too, even though they may doubt this at the moment. 
I wish to quote from the new book by Christopher Falkus which is obtainable in the Parliamentary Library. It was published last year and is entitled The Life and Times of Charles II'. At page 202, having described the King's death, Falkus writes this potent assessment: 
With Charles died the age he had created. 
I believe that with the defeat of the LiberalCountry Party coalition an age died in Australia. After all, that Government built something into this country. We might not have agreed with everything it did over 23 long years but with its defeat an age has come to an end. An age has been buried and, in some respects, a way of life has been buried. 
No, but I hope it will be changed here and there for the better. Life is a constant moving onwards and new ideas must continue to pour into the bloodstream of our nation's life. We are not the only ones who have ideas. The previous Government had a go. It had 23 years of putting its ideas into legislative form in Australia. Now members of the Opposition should give us a chance. I believe that with the implementation of the new ideas that we are putting forward changes for the better in the whole structure of Australian life will occur. 
Labor has always been a progressive, goahead, innovating, reforming, renewing, recreating Party. Labor believes that what is physically and economically possible is also financially possible. Labor believes people come before profits. Labor believes that to stand still is to stagnate. I have read the comment about being in a groove and that the only difference between a groove and the grave is the depth. The youth of Australia who helped us to victory will be given the right to vote on attaining the age of  18.  The sick, widows, including working widows, the infirm, invalids, children, public servants and people in almost every sector of the nation will be given new hope and security. The old fears, the old bogies, the old conservatism, the old laissez faire philosophy, the old shibboleths, the old monopoly capitalism, the systematic sale of Australian assets overseas, the old pollution of cities, the chaos in transport, the constant downgrading of Australia overseas and the abject subservience of Australia to other countries such as America will all be wiped from the face and heart of Australia under the Whitlam Government. We want to build a new nation which will be strong and secure in its own right and have a clear voice of its own. (Quorum formed.) Tonight after  8  o'clock my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  will be making his maiden speech in this Parliament. I am sorry that what I have been saying has upset the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  who called for a quorum to be formed. A breath of fresh air is already blowing through the corridors of government reaching out to people and places everywhere. 
At this stage I want to pay a tribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his personal part in Labor's great victory.  His  strong leadership, his incredible energy, his courage in dealing with Party problems in some obstreperous States, his clear, direct and frank exposition of our policy in the campaign and his platform and television performances all contributed to the creation of confidence in the electorate towards a Labor Government. It was a lack of confidence and trust in the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition government which helped in its defeat. 
The Governor-General's Speech outlined a massive program of action to be undertaken by the new Whitlam Government. Since I have been in this House I have listened to  11  Governors-General outline government programs for the new Parliament, but I have not listened to such an impressive charter for action and change as that contained in the last Governor-General's Speech to which -we are replying. I was deeply impressed by a passage of that Speech which states: 
My Government believes that its economic, trade, development and industrial policies provide a basis for strong and continuing growth of Australian prosperity. It is, however, deeply conscious that  enconomic  growth and material well-being no longer reflect the whole aspirations and expectations of the Australian community, and that prosperity alone is no longer exactly equated with true progress. 
I could not agree too much with this because man does not live by bread alone. 
I will tell you about Lake Pedder - it is in my electorate - but I will not waste time now. One can give man everything equated with material, scientific and physical progress but man is still poverty stricken unless he finds the answer to selfishness, greed, arrogance and self-love. He is still poverty stricken until he learns the secret of finding happiness, forming friendships, caring for people and having the capacity to serve others. True progress, therefore, is measured not only in financial and physical wellbeing alone. Nor is it measured only in material wealth, economic stability, expanding trade, balanced budgets, annual profits, oil wells, beach homes, cars and boats. Without a matching moral and ethical advancement, without a sense of community responsibility, without respect for others, without personal and government integrity, without a massive caring for others, without a sharing of opportunity, without a love of justice, without a love for the underdog, without a tolerance for opposing viewpoints and without a faith in something beyond ourselves, true progress is impossible. The new Labor Government wants to lift the standards of action in Australia, awaken a new pride in our country, revise our national objectives, expand our vision and horizons and re-list our national priorities. 
There are other subjects that will come up for discussion later, subjects such as local government and rural assistance, housing, education and a host of other matters, and I will be speaking on these when the time comes. I did not think it appropriate to raise these matters at this time. We accept the challenge that has been given to us to govern and I feel sure that by adopting the right attitudes we will win much support and get all our programs into operation within the  3  years of this Parliament. 
I wish to ask a question of the Treasurer. In view of the fact that the Government has decided against the setting up of a rural bank as such, can the Treasurer indicate whether the other proposition - an enlarged and reconstructed Commonwealth Development Bank - will be given effect to very soon? Will the structure of this new Development Bank be so geared as to provide long term low-interest loans to rural industry to assist it in its constant battle for viability against a multitude of economic enemies? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 
1 was most intrigued when the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said that he got very emotional about this matter of country representation and the need for more services to be provided to honourable members from country electorates. I was here all the time he was a Minister in the previous Government and for a long time before that but I never heard him put up any fight in this House for the sort of facilities he mentioned tonight. Now that he is in the Opposition he gets emotional about such matters. 
I want to answer the attack on Tasmania that has been made by some honourable members from the Country Party and by several honourable members in the Liberal Party in this debate. In trying to support their very weak arguments they dragged into the debate the Tasmanian situation and asked: 'Where is the one vote one value principle in Tasmania on a comparison with the mainland States?' Let us look at the situation. Interestingly enough Tasmania was granted 5 seats in the House of Representatives at the beginning of the Federal Parliament, back in 1901, and it is written into the Constitution, at page 8 of the copy that I have: 
Notwithstanding anything in section twenty-four, the number of members to be chosen in each State at the first election shall be as follows: - 

<graphic href="083131197304046_60_3.jpg"></graphic>

Provided that if Western Australia is an Original State, . . . 
It was eventually- the numbers shall be as follows: - 
The numbers were revised, strange to say, when Western Australia came in - 

<graphic href="083131197304046_60_4.jpg"></graphic>

So Tasmania started off from scratch with five and still has five 72 years later. In other words, if the representation for Tasmania had been worked out on the same basis as for the mainland, Tasmania might have had only 2 or 3 seats in the beginning. But in their wisdom the planners of our Constitution said that Tasmania should have 5, even though it did not deserve that number at that time. But what is the position in 19737 New South Wales had 26 members to start with in 1901 and today it has 43. Tasmania still has 5. Tasmania will not get 6 until it has another 20,000 or 30,000 voters, perhaps more than that. So when we look at the situation there can be no argument. The number of members for Tasmania was fixed by the Constitution at 5. Tasmania cannot have less than that and certainly will not get more for a long time yet. Possibly it will be not until well into the 1980s before Tasmania is entitled to one more member. In Tasmania the tolerance at present between the seat with the lowest number of electors and the seat with the highest number is only  2i  per cent so I do not think there will be any redistribution in Tasmania on this occasion. The last time there was a redistribution I collected an extra 1,100 square miles of territory. 
Another thing which the Constitution did for Tasmania was give it the same number of senators as it gave each of the other States and all States started off in 1901 with 6 senators each, a total of 36 senators for the whole of Australia. Today there are 10 senators from each State, 60 for the whole of Australia. Why was all this done? It was done to protect the little States from the octopus strength of the large States. Of the little States, Western Australia was one, South Australia another and Tasmania was the third. So Tasmania was entitled to the same number of senators as the mainland States. What chance would these 3 States have had if they had not been given equality with the other States? 
I think the early planners of our Constitution did a magnificent job. I dread to think what would have happened had the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and a few other honourable members on the other side of the House had anything to do with it at that time. I am glad that he was born about 60 years after the Constitution was first brought into being. I am glad he was born; I am just glad that he was not born way back when he might have had something to do with the Constitution. He probably would have wiped Tasmania off the map altogether and would not have given it any decent representation. We have about 203,000 voters in 5 electorates in Tasmania at the moment. Of course, this is not worked out on an equal basis with the mainland. The average in Tasmania is about 40,000 people in each electorate. But it is quite wrong to drag Tasmania into the argument against this Bill because Tasmania had its number decided by the Constitution and that number will not be altered for many years. 
The honourable member for Gwydir made a statement with which I thoroughly agreed. He said that in a Bill like this it is ridiculous to separate the country seats held by the Australian Country Party from the country seats held by the Liberal Party and the country seats held by the Labor Party. We all belong to the rural community of Australia. This old fight between city and country has been going on ever since I have been in this place, and it is one of the most meaningless fights I know of. The idea of this sort of legislation is to give equality to ail sections of the community as near as it can be physically done. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  made a very statesmanlike speech on this matter a while ago and 1 congratulate him on it, as 1 have congratulated him on all his speeches in this place. He is rapidly becoming one of the real fire-eaters on this side of the House. The honourable member represents a big city electorate but he also believes that we are fighting for justice on behalf of everybody, both in the city and in the country, and should not be trying to set one section of Australia against another, i know that beneath the benign exterior of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who introduced this Bill, he too agrees with me. Mountains have been made out of molehills in this Bil! by people with great imaginations, tremendous imaginations and unbridled enthusiasm for I do not think the dangers are present which they think are present. Whether this Bill gets through the other place or not- 
Perhaps it will not, but if it does not we will go on with the redistributions throughout Australia just the same, because they have to be carried out as a result of the last census. The Government has put up an honest fight in presenting this Bill. It is our belief that the 10 per cent tolerance should be introduced. If this legislation is defeated the Government will have to take its defeat in the right spirit. This legislation has been democratically put before the Parliament and it will be democratically defeated or passed. 
We should cease fighting about the difficulties involved in representing country and city electorates. The honourable member who represents a city electorate has the same type of work to do as the honourable member who represents a country electorate and he has to do it for very much the same type of people. Nobody can say that he is working in a different field to any other honourable member. I believe that in some cases an honourable member who represents a large city electorate of say 50,000 electors could work harder than I do and I have to work 75 hours a week to look after the 43,000 electors in my country electorate. Of course anyone who has a larger electorate would have to work harder. By 'larger' I do not necessarily mean larger in size but larger in population. All members of this Parliament work among the same type of people for the same objectives. This Bill is designed purely and simply to bring more justice to all citizens in electorates throughout the Commonwealth. 
I am hoping that the honourable member for Farrer will soon get back to the statement. 
. we will regulate exploration, development, transportation, marketing and use of oil, natural gas and all related hydro-carbons. 
One could not get a more perfect socialist state. The statement continues: 
Such an Authority would explore, produce, transport and refine petroleum. 
Call it 'nationalisation' and 'socialisation', it means the replacement of private industry by state-operated industry. This is something to which the Opposition is strongly opposed. I mentioned the use of new words for this glossed up policy - words such as 'energy budget'. I do not have the faintest idea what an energy budget is meant to mean, but it sounds very good. I am sure our modest member could write a thesis on just what energy budget' is meant to mean. 
Apart from the new words used, let us look at the policy which was implemented by the previous Government and which was an extremely successful energy policy. It was our policy, when in government, to assist in the discovery, assessment and development of fuel and energy resources. We did this in a number of ways, all of which were extremely successful. First, through the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Joint Coal Board there was mapping, measurement and assessment of our coal resources. Honourable members know, if they have read of the national development output in this field, that we now have proven resources of recoverable black coal of about 13,000 million tons and recoverable brown coal of about 10,000 million tons. There has been considerable exploration, particularly in Queensland but in other areas as well. There is no doubt that there is potential for proving additional reserves well above those of which we already know. The previous Government assisted in the development of hydro-electric power resources in Australia. It did this both with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and in Tasmania where it gave financial assistance to that State. It encouraged the search for uranium and the production of uranium. 
The revised policy which I introduced when I was a Minister in 1967, led to a very considerable increase in the discovery of uranium. This was because it made it permissible for people who discovered new deposits to export a small percentage of those deposits provided, of course, it complied with all the requirements. The Minister still had to agree to the exportation, it had to be exported under safeguards and there had to be adequate availability of uranium in Australia. Provided this all happened, people had the right to export a percentage of a new discovery. This has led to the discovery of proven reserves in Australia which at present total more than 100,000 tons and probably reserves of more than double that quantity. In fact, some contracts had been written, but I understand they have been frozen by the present Government. There was also the development of techniques in atomic energy. Here again, when the Opposition was in government it set up the Atomic Energy Commission which has done a tremendous amount to develop an understanding of atomic energy in Australia. That is a first class organisation. In fact, when we were in government we had gone as far as to plan a generator at Jervis Bay but, unfortunately, when the costs were looked at it was discovered that this would be more expensive than had been anticipated and so the project was suspended. I hope that in the not too distant future Australia will have its first generator, making nuclear power from uranium. I am sure that this will be a great advantage to Australia in helping to produce energy, so saving some of our other resources. 
Of course, the previous Government was responsible for proving large deposits of oil and gas. It is noteworthy, of course, that before we came into government in 1949 the Ampol company had been trying to interest an American company in coming to Australia. The American company showed some interest but the moment that it was proposed that Australian banks should be nationalised it immediately threw the proposal aside and said: 'We have been nationalised in one or two other places in the world and we are not prepared to be nationalised in Australia'. It was not until 1953 that Ampol succeeded in getting to Australia an American company, and between the 2 of them they discovered Rough Range. This was a very small deposit and although it led to a boom at the time there was no follow-up. So the search for oil went downhill. The then Government said: We must do everything we possibly can to encourage people to search for oil.' It introduced subsidies and taxation concessions. The Minister in his statement pours cold water on the concessions and says that the Government is paying for some of these things. But what would have happened if we had not paid? It was obvious that the search for oil in Australia was drying up and would not have been carried on. We would not have the oil we have today or the conditions under which we are now able to supply more than 60 per cent of our own requirements from crude oil and to supply 4 of the major cities of the Commonwealth with natural gas. Shortly we will be able to supply a fifth major city. 
Again we have not allowed these facilities to be exported. The only exports in this area have been of liquefied petroleum gas which has been produced as a result of the drawing off of natural gas. This has earned funds for us overseas. Eventually one can see some of it being used in Australia. I have been talking about the energy policy of the previous Government. I want to stress that under our policy we realised that while we had to do everything possible to assist in the discovery, assessment and development of fuel and energy resources, the final choice of the fuel was in the hands of the authorities - the State Electricity Commission in Victoria or equivalent authorities in the other States. We have to realise that these people will make the choice of fuel which suits them best. 
It does not matter if the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  wants them to use black coal. They will say: 'We have used that once already. We were held to ransom by the New South Wales miners. We will use brown coal'. They will continue to do that, so that it is not possible to have what is loosely called an energy budget or an energy and fuel policy while users have the undoubted right to select the fuel which serves them best. The Minister acknowledges this because he has said the fuel policy is heavily dependent on the closest co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. The basic difference between the present Government and the previous government in respect of an energy policy is that we believe in private enterprise assisted by the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth and the States where it is necessary. 
The present Government believes in a staterun organisation going right through from exploration. It is even trying to turn the Bureau of Mineral Resources into something which it has never been before so that it can drill for oil. The Government wants transportation in its Commonwealth-owned pipes. It will even have refineries. 
The Minister goes on in his statement to complain that the Commonwealth has provided some of the oil search funds, an amount he estimates at $245m. I repeat: Where would we be without those funds? He claims that the funds have been put in but there has been no equity. I am interested to read in the Minister's statement that the authority he is planning to set up is to explore, produce, transport and refine petroleum. It will employ its own personnel and equipment  (Extension of time granted.)  I thank the House for the extension of time. The authority is to employ its own personnel and equipment in search. Is there any need for that? I appreciate that one or two countries in the world have their own search organisations but I do not believe it is necessary here because there are a number of Australian-controlled and operated companies which carry out search. The authority will let out contracts for search. These contracts are let out now. When we make available a licence or a permit  to  explore there is a work requirement. There are relinquishment requirements. So much money must be put into the work. Returns must be furnished and areas must be relinquished which are then available at a later stage to others. It is even planned to take up shares in companies. I must say that that horrifies me. I do not know how it will be done. I have no doubt that Normie Foster, the Minister's friend, will be put on the board of some of these companies to give them the advantage of his great brain in this area. 
The Minister complains that only 3 rigs are drilling on the North West Shelf but there are 40 rigs drilling in the European area. First of all, of course, there is enormous demand for fuel in Europe and that is one of the reasons why it is a more sought after area if oil can be discovered there. The other point is one on which I now find myself substantially in agreement with the previous shadow Minister for National Development. I suppose he could be called my predecessor as shadow Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He said:  there is an urgent and justifiable need substantially to increase the exploration subsidy, particularly to Australian companies. 
He went on to state: 
One of the principal reasons for the reduction in oil exploration activity is the Government's absurd policy - 
This was our Government, of course, at the time -  with respect to the guaranteed price for domestic indigenous crude oil. The domestic price for indigenous crude oil is pegged at the import parity price prevailing as at October 1968. This price is supposed to apply to 1975. When this price was first pegged the import parity price of crude oil was significantly lower than the Australian guaranteed price. This gave the industry a decided incentive to explore for oil. But early in 1971 there were substantial increases in world prices, to the degree that producers of Australian oil are now receiving prices around 20 per cent below the real import parity price. Thus despite severe inflation which has played havoc with exploration and development costs, the Government refuses to increase the price of Australian oil to _ at least equivalent to the non-dumped import parity price. 
So those are the views of the present Minister for Northern Development. I hope they are also the views of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and I hope he will implement them and we will see an increase in the search for oil in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister's keen and stated interest in the representations on public lending rights from the Australian Society of Authors, I ask him whether the Government is currently examining the proposition by authors . that for each copy of each Australian book on the shelves of lending libraries the Commonwealth could pay a fee estimated at 25c a year, 20c to go to the author and 5c to the publisher. Can the Prime Minister give our authors any encouragement that public lending rights will become law? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I did call the right honourable member a humbug but I did not call him a hypocrite. 
In view of the Australiawide competition for an exclusive Australian national anthem will the Prime Minister ensure that the copyright remains with the successful composer and that the royalties dependent on such copyright also go to the composer, especially as no additional cost will be required of the Commonwealth Government or the Australian people if this is done? Further, because application forms were not available until about 9 May, will the Prime Minister extend the closing date for entries by a further 2 weeks, which surely is not unreasonable considering that we have waited 185 years for an Australian anthem? 
That is against the Standing Orders. 
The honourable member for Gippsland and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are critical of what I said late last year. It is perfectly true that my Party made a decision about what we would do. We decided that we would instruct the Australian National Line to enter into negotiations to purchase the Straitsman'. We said that we would require the ANL to reinstitute the service. But upon making inquiries on becoming the Government we found that the information which had been given to us and which came I believe from Captain Houfe was not factual information. So we had made a decision on information which was not factual. Therefore, I do not feel bound to honour something which was not based on correct information. When someone passes you incorrect information, are you bound to honour a decision which you made on that information that came from the person who is now complaining that we would not honour our promise? 
One of the early actions I took on becoming the Minister was to ask the ANL to give me the necessary information and to prepare for me a report so that I could make a decision as to what we would do with the Straitsman'. I did that on 18 December, the day that I was elected as a Minister. On 9 January I received a report from the ANL which advised me that we would lose, on the present freight rates, $500,000 a year. Honourable members should bear in mind that the ship only cost $1.2m. I questioned the officers. I kept the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  informed of what was happening. The honourable member for Gippsland said that the honourable member took no interest in this matter. I can assure him that the honourable member for Braddon has nearly worn out the carpet in my office from walking in and out wanting to know what was happening. He has never been off my back about this matter. The honourable member has carried out his responsibilities as the member for Braddon in an endeavour to get a shipping service for King Island. To criticise him in any way is completely unfounded and unfair because I know what he has done in regard to this matter. As I have said, he has never been off my back to do something about this matter. 1 drew the attention of the honourable member for Braddon to the report of the Australian National Line when it was made available to me. The honourable member said it was not factual and that there was additional freight which he was certain would be available. I arranged for an officer of the ANL to go to Tasmania and to King Island with him and they were able to get together an additional $28,000 worth of freight. The report then was in this condition: If freights were left as they are at the moment we would have lost $500,000 a year on a ship that cost only $1.2m; if we increased freights to return us $100,000 that would bring the loss back to $400,000; and with the additional freight that the honourable member for Braddon was able to get, the final figure for the annual loss on this ship would have been $384,000. Facts contained in the ANL report show that the Labor Party had not been given the correct information from Captain Houfe. 1 am not able to table the report because it contains a lot of confidential commercial information which belongs to the ANL. I do not propose to make information concerning the general administration of the ANL available to every other shipping company in Australia. My predecessor will know what the position is. 
Since then we have had numerous discussions. On 15 February I had discussion with  Mr Batt,  the Minister for Transport in Tasmania, and the Premier of Tasmania.  Mr Batt  wrote me a letter on 16 February. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and I had discussions with both him and the Premier of Tasmania on 20 March. We put a proposition to them. Let me underline the important point that the Premier and the 3 Ministers who attended this meeting unanimously agreed that the 'Straitsman' was not the most suitable vessel for this job. The Treasurer and I made an offer whereby Tasmania could charter a ship for a short time or buy it. We told them that we would provide the money by way of loan so that they could charter or buy the ship. We pointed out that we would accept responsibility for half of the loss. We were resigned to the fact that there would be losses on the run. We then agreed that they could operate the ship for 2 years and at the end of that time they would replace it with an Australian built ship. We said that we would again make special loans available to them so that they could first of all purchase other a ship from overseas or a ship operating on the Australian coast and then build a ship in an Australian yard. That decision was reached on 15 March. 
On 20 March there was further correspondence between the Premier of Tasmania and myself, as was the case on 5 April. So this matter has continued to move. But I was not and am not prepared to recommend to the Government that we should purchase the Straitsman' and lose the money which I have already outlined to the House. We on this side of the House have done our damnedest to make sure that King Island has a shipping service. As late as 25 May I again wrote to the Premier to inform him of the terms of an agreement which the Treasurer and I were prepared to recommend to Cabinet. We said that we would provide money by way of loan so that Tasmania could acquire a ship, whether it be a second hand Australian ship or one from overseas, and that if a ship from overseas was purchased they subsequently would have to build one in an Australian yard. We have done all we can to make sure that there is a viable shipping service. We have not closed it down, as the honourable member for Gippsland and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  did when they were Ministers in the former Government. We have attempted to give the people a shipping service. We are still prepared to make money available to the State so that the people can have a shipping service. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Duthie)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What rental is paid by the Commonwealth for office accommodation in Launceston. 
Has consideration been given to erecting a Commonwealth building in Launceston. 
-As one of the 3 members of this place who were here when the late Arthur Calwell was Minister for Immigration, I should like briefly to add my condolences on this sad occasion. As was the honourable member for Fremantle I was assisted greatly by 

 Mr Calwell when I was first elected to this place. I think we all remember the man who helped us in our early days in the jungle of politics. It is only right that one should refer to this fact today because Arthur Calwell 's life was undoubtedly studded with thousands of kind acts which thousands of people in Australia will remember. He had a tremendous capacity for correspondencewriting to people, keeping in touch with people, and ringing people up, especially those who were in hospital and those who were having trouble. He was a thoughtful, considerate man to the extent that no matter how busy he was in this place, if he knew one's wife was ill or one's father, mother or relative was ill, he would often ask, not just once but several times a week, how that person was. I personally appreciate that sort of thing as much as anything because it shows just how genuinely thoughtful and considerate is a man in a busy life when he can consider some humble member of his own party or even in the Opposition, who is going through a very serious time of sickness and worry. We all know that he held strong views. The greatest example of these was his view on the Vietnam issue. He never flagged or wavered in his strong belief that we should not have been in Vietnam.  His  view on that great issue was finally shown to be right. 
Arthur Calwell had a wonderful sense of humour. He was a humble and human man. He was a sincere Christian. He tempered his strongly held views with great kindness. One could not really get mad at Arthur Calwell because he would say something that disarmed one. He was great at disarming his enemies. I think that his enemies loved him as he loved them. He had a great capacity for loving people. Also, he had a fantastic sense of history, deeper than that of any other man I know. He could recall historical events as easily as we can recall the dates pf our births or wedding anniversaries. He also possessed what was to many people a frightening memory. I have often heard Arthur Calwell quote Hansard to a member who had made a most impassioned speech in this place to put a point of view. When the  speaker  had finished and Arthur had a chance to reply, he would quote to that member exactly what he had said three or four years before, when he had expressed an opposite view. He loved to debunk men in this friendly fashion, using the pages of Hansard. He had a frightening memory. 
He loved his Party, his church, his God, the ordinary people and this Parliament. He was a wonderful leader for a Whip to work under. As Opposition Whip for approximately 17 years, 7 of which I served when Arthur Calwell was leader of our Party, I could not have wished for a more considerate, tolerant and understanding leader than Arthur Calwell. 
Arthur was a radical and a stirrer in the early days of his parliamentary career. This was referred to by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  He was fiery and forthright in his speeches. I remember a story told about him. In 1947 the Whip of our Party, which was in Government at the time, went to Ben Chifley, the then Prime Minister, one evening when the debate was being broadcast and said to him: Ben, Eddie Ward has just spoken and Arthur Calwell wants to follow him'. Ben replied: 'Not on your life. The Australian people could not take both of them on the same night'. That illustrates his firiness in those days. 
Finally, I wish to pay a tribute to those persons who made the funeral arrangements in Melbourne. I was not able to attend the funeral but I watched the television presentation of it, which was outstanding. One must pay tribute to those who planned every detail of that marvellous service both in the cathedral and at the graveside. I would like to pay a tribute also to those who televised the funeral. It was splendidly done and was a great credit to all concerned. I pay tribute to  Mrs Calwell  for the long and wonderful family life that they had together and for the many sacrifices which she made to enable Arthur to carry out his very difficult duties. I pay a tribute and pass on my sympathy to  Mrs Calwell  and her wonderful daughter. 
I pay a tribute also to someone we may forget, a person who served Arthur Calwell as his secretary for all the years that I knew him. I refer to Miss Joan O'Donnell. She is present today listening to the tributes being paid to her late boss. Of course she loved him very much. It is great to know that Joan was such a loyal, dedicated and able secretary to Arthur through all the years and all the vicissitudes of his political life. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that a strike by engineers which began yesterday has tied up all Australian National Line ships again? In view of Tasmania 's almost total dependence for its economic survival on shipping, 80 per cent of which is supplied by ANL, will the Minister confer with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in an endeavour to have sufficient ANL ships released from the strike to maintain essential services to Tasmania, especially for the shipment of perishables, as we have no rail or road alternatives such as are available on the mainland? 
I wonder what would satisfy this grizzling, grumbling Opposition. I sat in Opposition for 23 years. We were a constructive Opposition. In all the speeches we made in this House as members of the Opposition we put forward constructive proposals for this country. I listened to the growling and grizzling of honourable members opposite during the previous session and it is continuing today in the same form, on the same note and with the same discord. Honourable members opposite do not always think exactly alike on this subject. In the new program the Government has tried to provide sufficient time for the Parliament to debate the issues of the nation, and the Opposition is still not satisfied. The Government also has to have party meetings. Our party meetings will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. on Wednesdays. We are the Government. We have far more work to do than the Opposition. 
Honourable members opposite will have to get up a little earlier to get to their party meetings on Wednesday mornings. They are not satisfied. If they were not given the time they would be grizzling because there was not enough time for debate. The Government is giving them enough time for debate and they are still not satisfied. Goodness gracious me, can honourable members opposite not make up their minds about what this Parliament should be doing, stick to it and do their job without wasting time grizzling and growling here? They are complete amateurs in Opposition. 
They have not had enough practice yet. We will give them 9 years of practice for a start, just to see whether we can get them going. You might be 'pros' by that time but you are certainly not 'pros' now. 
I wish to speak on the same subject. I generally support the contentions of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  The full repercussions of this decision by the Government were obviously not worked out by  Dr Coombs  or the Cabinet. It is easy to make a blanket decision to remove a sales tax exemption. It is easy to work out how much revenue will be gained by the decision - in this case $25m. But it is beyond the planners like  Dr Coombs,  the economists and the city "based experts, to understand the widespread repercussions of a decision to wipe out the sales tax exemption on non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice. Citrus fruit growers in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales most certainly will be hit by this Budget decision, and so will the apple growers and the processing companies in my State of Tasmania and the processing companies in my State of Tasmania. Because of the secrecy which surrounds all budgets, none of us knew about this decision until we heard the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  announce it on Tuesday night. It has placed us in an embarrassing position. No member who serves a rural electorate containing citrus fruit growers and apple growers can truthfully welcome this decision. I understand that the Coombs report suggested that this sales tax exemption be removed but that it did not overemphasise its removal or press for it unduly. 
The position in regard to Tasmania is as follows: In 1959 a Tasmanian, who was a refugee German Jew, the late  Mr Hans  Jacob of Hobart, developed a new process for using apple juice in soft drinks. The process involved removing the colour and the taste from apple juice. It involved costly and sophisticated machinery and equipment. As a result of Hans Jacob's brilliant research and processing knowhow, there has grown up around the world a multi-million dollar industry. Up to 1959 small and oversized and hail damaged apples had to be picked and destroyed or fed to the pigs. The process developed by Hans Jacob has meant to apple growers millions of dollars in income which prior to 1959 they did not receive. Growers are receiving 50c a bushel for these culled apples. In Tasmania culled apples are worth $500,000 a year to growers. One company alone, Port Huon Fruitgrowers Co-operative Association Ltd, uses 16,000 tons of these apples annually. As a result of the sales tax decision, one million bushels of apples will have to be dumped in Tasmania unless other uses for them can be found. In a world in which starvation is so acute in certain areas, the dumping of these apples would he a wicked waste of food. Not only will growers in our State lose income totalling $500,000 but road transporters will lose about $125,000 in cartage fees and Hobart business houses will feel the effects of the reduction in spending power. 
Furthermore, hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of special juice extracting equipment and machinery will cease operating. One factory alone in Tasmania will have $400,000 worth of such equipment lying idle. Smaller processors such as the Cygnet Canning Co. Ltd, L. H. Roberts and Son and E. W. Seabrook and Co. which supply juice to the big processors in Hobart, such as Port Huon and W. D. Peacock and Co. Pty Ltd, also will suffer a serious loss of income. Mersey Valley growers, located in the electorate of Braddon, have, I believe, signed a contract to supply these sorts of apples to Schweppes (Aust.) Ltd in Hobart. 
That contract will now fall through. The decolourised and deflavoured -juices go from Tasmania by ship to mainland ports to serve giant processors such as the Golden Circle Cannery in Queensland, Tom Piper Ltd and Plaimar Ltd in South Australia and Western Australia. 
I understand that they all cancelled their orders within a few hours of this announcement in the Budget Speech. The juice is transported in 45-gallon stainless steel drums to its destinations. This Budget decison will mean that 20,000 tons of shipping space will be lost to Tasmania in one year. 
One of the worst features and repercussions of this decision is that orders for this treated apple juice ceased yesterday and one processor in Hobart has $600,000 worth of juice on hand. This specially treated apple juice is no good for anything else. It is processed, decolourised and deflavoured for one purpose only - to go into the manufacture of cordials and soft drinks throughout this country. Surely this is one area in which the promised assistance by the Treasurer is necessary. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said, at page 27: 
In abolishing the exemption the Government stands ready to provide such funds as may be necessary to assist with the reconstruction of any sectors of the fruitgrowing industry that may be affected. 
I hope that the Treasurer, who is present in the House tonight, will bear in mind what I am saying and what was said last night by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and tonight by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  Soft drink manufacturers will immediately use synthetic juices to replace apple juice which they previously used. The price of soft drinks will rise by 3c on a 26 oz bottle; but if the retailer seeks his pound of flesh another lc could be added, thus lifting the cost of a 26 oz bottle of soft drink from 22c to 25c or 26c. Without warning, how can growers and processors adjust to such a decision as that which was announced by the Treasurer in this Budget Speech. The suggestion by my friend the honourable member for Murray that the exemption from sales tax should be phased out in a manner similar to the phasing out of the dairy subsidy is a sound common sense proposal. 
I know that the processors will do their best to absorb some of these culled apples into pure apple juice production. There has been a huge increase in the production of pure apple juice in the past 4 years. This move has been quite dramatic. There is a tremendous increase in the consumption of this very marvellous drink, pure apple juice. It is becoming an increasingly popular beverage. However, there is no way known whereby one million bushels of apples can be processed for apple juice production. Processors will be able to absorb some of them but nothing like the tremendous quantity of one million bushels which will have to be picked off the trees. They have to be picked if they are damaged or if they are small or oversized. The apples which are not absorbed by processors will have to be dumped. This will create pollution in the Huon Valley in Tasmania and in any other place where they are dumped. I believe that processors should receive some compensation for the juice which they now hold in store and which they cannot sell. The manager of the Port Huon Co-operative told me today that yesterday he sent cables all round the world to try to find a market for this specially treated apple juice of which his firm has $600,000 worth in store. He does not expect very much response to those cables. 
The growers should receive compensation for the loss of this important outlet of culled apples. The companies in Tasmania that make the wooden bins which are no longer required also should be compensated because that is their livelihood and they will go out of business. I trust that fully documented submissions requesting assistance will be sent to the Treasurer within the next few months so that he can have a good look at the whole story piece by piece and State by State. The position might vary slightly from State to State but the problems are basically the same. He has promised that assistance will be forthcoming where difficulty has been caused as a result of this decision on sales tax. Knowing him, I am sure that he will do his best to get money for those who are affected by the decision. I have with me a telegram from the  Chairman  of the State Fruit Board in Tasmania and  Mr Chapman,  the  Chairman  of the Tasmanian Fruit Processors Association. It was sent to the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and myself today. It reads: 
Amendment to sales tax Act deleting exemptions on usage fruit juices has most serious consequences Tasmanian apple industry. Growers will be denied outlet for over one million bushels of juice grade apples because soft drink manufacturers will turn to cheaper substitute raw material such as water and sugar. It can be expected that soft drink manufacturers will be reluctant to take delivery of orders placed for 1973 concentrate juice now packed awaiting shipment and will have very little interest if any in placing orders ex-1974 apple crop. Please inform other Tasmanian members. 
The case has been put by 5 members for consideration by the Treasurer. 
(Before I call the honourable member for Eden-Monaro I warn the members of the Country Party who have been interjecting that if they do not quieten down they may be out of the House. I call the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
One danger in this situation is that resources will be attracted into luxury areas. It is clear that some shortages will develop in the building sector, for example in the coming year and as the honourable member for Melbourne maintained last night the construction of office blocks may be a luxury we cannot afford this year. It is interesting to speculate on the effects that a shortage of building resources could have on the Budget deficit. Clearly it is essential to supplement domestic supplies with imports and the special report on this subject which is incorporated in the Budget is of obvious importance. Where pricing rigidities exist in the market much thought must be given to increasing imports and perhaps even to subsidising imports in order to provide competition. One area in which such a tactic could perhaps prove profitable is in the area of importing petrol in order to bring the price down. This principle of substituting the commodity on the market is in general what the land commission will do in regard to land sales. 
It is ironic that the Leader of the Opposition calls this a 'socialist budget'. Let us take him at his word and consider the 2 elements that are clearly displayed in the Budget. The first is a major and genuine response to social need. The low income, under-privileged, defenceless sections of the community are provided for in this Budget. It is the response of a government with a social conscience. This is indeed socialism in this sense of the word and may the country at large hear the Opposition condemn the motives behind this Budget. 
The second aspect of this Budget is that it assumes that a productive economy is one that is free of restraints, that misallocates resources and enables a country to forgo a well educated mobile labour force which removes competitive pressures in the pricing mechanism and which provides a supply of materials to meet the legitimate demands of the community at large. The Leader of the Opposition questioned these assumptions in his speech last night. He condemned the Government for acting on these assumptions. He wants his supporters in industry to be protected from the cold hard reality of business life. For what other purpose are these assistances given to industry if not to protect it from the cold hard reality of a competitive business life? What other purpose do they serve? 
A major factor influencing price rises since December has been a rapid rise in food prices, in particular meat. The meat index has risen from 119.4 in December to 144.0 in the June quarter. Industry leaders have not served the Australian meat producers well by responding to this situation with banal slogans. We have been told that the Australian consumer has eaten cheap meat and now must pay. How absurd! How can the housewife pay more for meat when she does not have any more money to go around? Any clear thinking industrial leader should realise that as the price of red meat rises the demand for red meat will fall. People will find alternatives - pork, poultry, and fish. Once the market is established for alternative meats it will be hard to win back the market for red meat. The real question industry leaders should be asking in the interests of the meat producer is just how important is the domestic market to the industry. 
Will industry leaders jeopardise the future market share of a short term pricing situation or will they take a longer term view of the market in order to preserve a large component of it for the meat producers? This short term view of price rises is the very basis of inflation. Without co-operation between all sections of the community and without people involved in production and in the market place taking a long term view, no government would ever have the power to control inflation. To talk about an income-prices policy is to deny the fact that in order to control inflation and to run an income-prices policy the Government needs this essential cooperation. An income-prices policy without such co-operation simply bottles up demand and pressures as did controls during the last War - which are released as soon as the controls are lifted. There is no long term solution in an income-prices policy for its own sake without the co-operation and without getting to the core of the matter, namely, increased supplies where supplies are short. In any growth situation, of course, this will happen. Without these increased supplies the inflation ary pressures will continue. It is up to industry and producers in Australia, whose long term interests are at stake, to realise that if they are to keep a share of the domestic market they need to increase supplies on that market through their own voluntary industry effort. I commend this, a far sighted Budget, to the House. It is a Budget which lays the foundations for social reform which will bring to Australia for the first time a proper civilised response to the needs of our people. 
Can the Minister for Urban and Regional Development clarify his Press statement, made late last month, that $500,000 would be made available for preliminary work in developing the Tamar Valley in northern Tasmania as one of the first growth centres to be supported in Tasmania with Commonwealth financial assistance? 
'Is it not marvellous how righteous honourable members become when they find themselves in Opposition? It is absolutely amazing. Since the present Opposition started sitting on the Opposition benches haloes have been forming over the heads of each one of them as the months have gone by. 
I put mine away in my hip pocket. I am amazed at the attitude adopted by members of the Opposition who were members of the former Government. They talk about mistakes. I sat in this Parliament in Opposition for 23 years. I listened to their mistakes over and over again. These errors do slip into legislation; I will admit that. I will admit that this piece of legislation should have spelt out in more detail the matter in dispute. Let us be quite frank about this matter. The provision with respect to brucellosis assistance should have been spelt out in the legislation. I suggested yesterday that this error if it is an error, or omission if it is an omission, should be remedied in the Bill when it is transmitted to the Senate so that what is proposed is made quite clear. Let us be frank on this point: The nation will not fall to pieces if we state our own mind on this matter. 
I wish to take up another matter now and it concerns the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the last Minister for Primary Industry in the former Government, who is sitting at the table. He dealt with the Department of Primary Industry for many years. I hope that he did so on a most straightforward and honest basis. In the Parliament yesterday and today he has said more or less that the figures given to us by that Department are inaccurate. That was an astounding statement for an ex-Minister to make with  respect  to a department that he must have trusted day after day, week after week, month after month and year after year to give him information. 
Yes, when the honourable member was on this side of the chamber- 
I was sorry that the honourable member did not, before he made his statement, have an interview with the representative of the Department who is here today. I looked at the figures yesterday; I studied them. There is no ambiguity in those figures at all. They show that $74m will be raised by this levy over a 3-year period - virtually 33 months, as the crow flies. This will meet an expenditure in the same period of $74m. No profit is made after stamps, etc., are paid for. There is no profit at all in this deal. Yet honourable members opposite had the nerve to rise here yesterday and to say that a profit of approximately $30m according to one honourable member, $18m according to another, would result from the provisions of this Bill. If we could make deals like that, we would never need to budget for a deficit. But I definitely say that the Government will not be raising its money and its profits in that way. 
I ask the Minister for Education: What amount has been allocated to country areas in the Australian States under the isolated children's allowance scheme instituted by this Government a few months ago? Will this expenditure of Federal money remove many of the worst disadvantages suffered by country children who seek to fit themselves for a wider range of careers in the country or in the cities? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197309255_79_0.jpg"></graphic>

Subsidy first introduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis. (b) Subsidy changed from a one-for-one to a two-for-one basis. 
Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service from information supplied by the Department of Social Security. 
Thank you, gentlemen. My colleague, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  has been here 30 years and the honourable member for Fremantle, the Minister for Education &lt;Mr Beazley), has been here 29 years. We are the only 3 members of this Parliament who were here when  Mr Chifley  was Prime Minister. If honourable members wish to know the secret of survival we will be quite happy to tell them. The survival rate in this Parliament is just on 10 years. Anyone who survives beyond 10 years is on borrowed political time. As a member here for 28 years I have seen the changes that have taken place in this Parliament - for the better, too. The Standing Orders have been amended on many occasions with respect to the time allowed for members to participate in debates. Members have been given more and improved speaking rights in the Parliament. The time limit on speeches has been changed to give members more flexibility. These changes have been most sensible. 
The Labor Party was in Opposition for 23 years and faced a Liberal Party-Country Party coalition Government. We co-operated with the Government on the Standing Orders Committee and quite a number of changes were made to the Standing Orders. But the argument that we were not successful in winning in that time was that seeking a sensible adjournment time for each day's proceedings in the Parliament. The Parliament used to sit beyond 12 o'clock at night. The staff of this Parliament never knew when each working day would finish; neither did we. The House could rise at 11.15, 11.30, midnight or past midnight. The adjournment time for each sitting day was completely flexible and changed from day to day. 
Many times the Parliament sat right through the night to finish Budget sessions in late November or early December. As I am reminded on some occasions sitting days finished at 6 o'clock or 7 o'clock in the morning. 
Yes. That is one of the reasons why we have changed the system. Since the honourable member has been Leader of the House, the revolutionary change of fixing an adjournment time for each day's proceedings has been introduced. Proceedings now finish each day at 1 1 o'clock. 
On only one occasion under this Labor Government has the House of Representatives sat past 11 o'clock in the evening since this new provision was introduced. This provision gives everybody a chance to recover from the sitting day. The Hansard staff has a chance to relax. Those people who are required by regulation to remain in Parliament House for an hour after the sitting concludes now know that they will be able to leave for home at midnight; in the past their hour of departure may have been 1 a.m. or later. 
The honourable member for Bradfield speaks as a disillusioned, desperate, discarded member. According to him, there is nothing right with the 'House of Representatives at all.  His  speech was 10 minutes of continuous criticism and scandalising, as it were, as to what this Parliament does not do. Yet there have been great changes since I was first elected to this place and, as I have said, they have been for the better. Speeches now are of a higher standard than those to which I used to listen 20 years ago. Members take more time in preparation of their speeches. I reject those critics who say that the reading of a speech is undignified, unethical or whatever else they may call it. I would far sooner hear a good prepared speech than to hear someone start at Genesis and finish at Revelations, not really knowing on what point he has begun or on what point he will finish. 
Yes, but it would be a most exciting one, especially when going through all the battles of the Old Testament. I think that the first responsibility of a member is to give this Parliament a logical, well-prepared speech. He may make his points as (a), (b), (c) and (d) or use headlines numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 as his guide. Such a prepared speech is better to listen to in the chamber and over the parliamentary broadcast. It sounds a lot better here and it reads much better in the Hansard report. Why does not the honourable member for Bradfield resign? Why does he not get out of this place? 
Why does he not? He is in one of the safest seats in this Parliament. But he is the worst critic of the Parliament - of his own mates in the Parliament, as it were. The only good thing about the Parliament as far as he is concerned is the salary - I am sure of that - and he does not need it. 
He spoke about the committee system. He criticised the committee system. A few years ago, we had no parliamentary committees. Now we have joint committees investigating various matters that we never even thought of before. The Senate is working flat out with committees investigating all sorts of subjects. Honourable members are running into each other going to and from committees. We hardly know where we are because of the number of committee calls on our time. In addition to joint parliamentary committees, we have Party committees covering a tremendous range of subjects. If the committee system is to be increased in the way suggested by the honourable member for Bradfield, I will give the game away, stay out of committees entirely and have a good time in this place, and have a bit of a rest away from committees and get down to working on the problems concerning my constituents and also undertake the study and research that is required of a member of Parliament. 
I feel that we need to come to a decision about a site for the new parliament house. This building has been patched up like an old pair of pants for so long that it is no longer a joke. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent on extensions to this building and maintenance costs run into thousands of dollars each year. I think it is time that we took a decision on the new site. That is all that is stopping us from going ahead with the new building. It is important for us to begin construction of a new parliament house because it will take 10 or 12 years to build. But once built it will be there for eternity. I was on the joint committee that brought up the report on the new parliament house. We planned for 400 years ahead. That is the only way to plan it. I think that the members of this Parliament are doing the job which is required of them. We are all dedicated members. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
First of all, I wish to comment on what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has just said. As  chairman  of the Government primary industry committee, I am most disappointed that no Labor man was at that meeting. I would in no instance countenance this sort of thing. If these men were invited to the meeting, they should have had the courtesy to send a man to that meeting, even if it was a South Australian or a senator. I do not know who was invited but those who were should certainly have had the courtesy to send someone to represent our Party. This sort of thing is absolutely necessary if we are to have proper understanding and proper relations between Government and primary industry. 
I have been asked to address a big meeting of dairy farmers in Tasmania next Tuesday night and on Thursday night of next week I have been challenged to a public debate at a branch of the Liberal Party at which there will be 400 or 500 dairymen and others present. That debate will take place between  Senator Wright  and a  Mr Bessell,  a Liberal Senate candidate,  Senator Wriedt  and myself. I do not want to run away from any challenges that are made to the Government on these issues. The resolutions referred to by the honourable member for Angas are all sound resolutions and I hope that the Federal Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  will put these propositions to our committee so that we can study them and make recommendations through him to the Cabinet. 
 Good, Tonight I should like to speak on what is happening to the Post Office. The Post Office is on the warpath to downgrade 284 official post offices in Australia to non-official status. On top of this, in Tasmania alone 75 more non-official offices are to be closed in addition to about 45 others which have already been closed over the last 5 years. This information has been conveyed to a union leader in Launceston in a letter dated 10 September 1973, File No. 236/1/48 from  Mr Pollock  of the Postmaster-General's Department.  Mr Langford,  who is Secretary of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists, sent me a telegram two or three days ago which stated: 
Strongly protest decision to downgrade eleven grade two post offices and one grade one post office in Tasmania to non-official status. As proposal not discussed with union demand immediate halt to proposal until such time as discussions held with unions concerned. Proposal considered to be detrimental to staff already occupying positions at offices concerned and would affect service to the public in towns nominated. 
The Post Office conducted a survey in 1970 under the previous Administration and out of this survey has emerged this plan to emasculate the Post Office, reduce its services and scatter its staff. We are the unlucky Government to be here when the report comes down. 
What are the details of this move? The Post Office proposes to reduce 284 official offices to non-official status over the next 3 years. The State figures are as follows: 103 official offices in New South Wales to be reduced to nonofficial status; 48 in Victoria; 45 in South Australia; 39 in Queensland; 36 in Western Australia; and, 13 in Tasmania. The 13 offices in Tasmania due to be downgraded in this manner are at Swansea, Campbell Town, Oatlands, St Marys, Westbury, Railton, Beaconsfield and Cressy, all of which are in my electorate of Wilmot; Cygnet and Geeveston, which  aTe  in the electorate of Franklin, where the Federal member is  Mr Sherry  who most certainly would be opposed to this move; Savage River and Stanley, in the electorate of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  - he too will have something to say about this; and, New Town in the electorate of Denison, a suburb of Hobart. I had the honour to open 5 of those 8 official offices in Wilmot during the past 20 years, and excellent offices they are. Now, however, they are to be reduced to non-official status. 
The status of the staff of these official post offices will be downgraded in many cases. The staff in most official offices consists of the Postmaster, a postal clerk and a postal officer. When reduced to non-official status at least 2 and perhaps all 3 of these officers will have to be transferred to other places, probably to the nearest city. This movement of staff will cause a lot of heartburning and disruption of homes and families and possible setbacks in the careers of the displaced staff members concerned. They will have to sell at moderate prices the houses which they own in the country towns where they are living and will have to buy homes in the cities at inflated costs. 
I believe this decision of the Post Office has been made on economic grounds. Service considerations have been and are being ignored in these matters. In recent years, the Post Office has been obsessed with profit making procedures. It is not in a bad economic position, anyway. In the financial year 1971-72 the telecommunications branch of the Post Office made a profit of $68m while the Post Office itself incurred a loss of $14m, which was reduced from $26m the previous year. These results indicate a total profit over the 2 divisions of the Post Office of $54m. Why therefore should this emasculating process be launched amongst Post Offices and staff when the Post Office in total is in credit? Why should even letter boxes - letter boxes, mark you - as well as public telephone booths have to be profitable before they will be approved by the Post Office? Why should rentals on telephones increase? Of course, there have been wage and salary rises, but does the Post Office have to increase all these and other charges, downgrade 284 official offices and knock out 75 more non-official offices in Tasmania alone over the next 3 years? 
I hope the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  can answer these questions because I am very disturbed at this latest guerrilla action by the Post Office to reduce postal services in hundreds of Australian towns. This is not happening in the cities. The cities have everything. In one part of Launceston, along Hobart Road, there are 4 public telephone booths in a distance of three-quarters of a mile. Yet one cannot get a public telephone cabinet in the country where there is a distance of 28 miles between Post Office telephone cabinets. This is outrageous discrimination against country areas. And this is not all. I understand on good authority that it is proposed that as from Tuesday of next week, if a person moves from his home for a holiday and wants his mail re-directed to another address, he is going to have to pay $1 a month for that privilege; businesses will pay $3 a month. 
This means that pensioners who want to stay with their daughters or sons for a holiday and want their mail to be redirected will have to pay $1 a month for that privilege or leave the mail to be delivered at their old address although nobody is there to collect it. This is another pettifogging attitude of the Post Office which horrifies me. The Post Office had a $54m profit in its telecommunications branch, yet it is getting down to this sort of pettifogging attitude. I only hope that the indiscriminate closing of post offices throughout the country and the downgrading of official offices to non-official offices will be reconsidered because the staff will be affected, the country towns will be affected and it is not justified on economic grounds. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. In view of the unique servicing position of local government at the grass roots level of Australia's economy and in view of the fact that already 25 per cent of local government income is going to be used to pay interest on borrowed money, will the Treasurer consider exempting or partially exempting local governments' 1973-74 borrowings from any increase in interest rates or can their difficulties be eased in some other way? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
What Senators and Members of the House of Representatives, on leaving the Parliament, have been appointed to Government positions at home and abroad during the period 1949 to 1972. 
What was (a) the position or office, (b) the remuneration or salary, (c) the Party affiliation of the appointee and (d) the length of the term served in each case. 
Has the Prime Minister made any progress in giving local government authorities access to an enlarged Grants Commission as a new source of Commonwealth finance? 
I think I will be the last speaker in this debate this afternoon so I will be as quick as I can. When Burley Griffin was in consultation with the Government of the day in the early 1920s he was horrified when he discovered that the Public Works Committee of the day had decided to put the present Parliament House on this site. He did not want it here. He said that the new and permanent parliament house would, in due course, be on Camp Hill and that if the temporary building were placed on its present site it would destroy the symmetry of the whole of the parliamentary triangle. In other words, this building would block the view right across the lake to the Australian War Memorial. The proof of what he said can easily be seen by walking behind the present building and looking across the lake. So the mistake that was made by a stupid Public Works Committee at that time is still with us. 
 They are not all good. That mistake is still with us. The mistake was made by the bureaucracy in charge of planning at that time. The man who knew what he was talking about was ignored. That is why this House is on the present site. 
In 1968 a joint parliamentary committee, of which I and many other honourable members in this House at the moment were members, was set up. That committee which was called the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, consisted of 21 or 22 members. It had on it the leaders of 2 parties together with the  Speaker  and the  President.  It was a very worthwhile committee. The Committee met over a period of  2i  years. We sent a delegation overseas to study parliament houses around the world. This was the right thing to do. The Committee's report was presented to the Parliament and drawings for the new and permanent parliament house were included in that report. That report covered all the details of what the new house would contain, including facilities for television and all modern requirements. It dealt with every conceivable thing. We planned on the basis of the new building lasting for 400 years. We suggested that both chambers would encompass a system of movable walls so that as the Parliament grew with the growth of Australia the walls of the chambers would be moved out without the necessity to have huge structural changes. 
It was a marvellous design to cater for the expansion of the Parliament that would inevitably take place as the nation grew. Where is that report and design? Where has all that work gone? It has gone down the drain. The report is in the archives. I am utterly disgusted with what has happened in regard to this matter. I would like to walk out on this debate. I would like to walk out without voting and take no part in it as a protest against what has happened to that magnificent report of March 1970 after  2i  years of hard work. The new members in this House would not know anything about it. But the report is in the archives for anyone who wishes to see it. That Committee was set up to bring down recommendations for a new and permanent parliament house. A vote was to be taken on the site for the new building. That is something that we did not decide as a committee. We said that Parliament should decide it. That was its right. What happened when we voted in this place on the site? The honourable member who is interjecting was not here at the time so I would appreciate it if he did not interrupt. However, we took a vote in this House and I think there was a majority of 11 for Camp Hill. A vote was taken in the Senate and there was a majority of about 40 for Capital Hill. So, the senators in their wisdom said: 'We will have a joint meeting to decide it.' That did not take place because we would not let the Senate dominate the final vote at that stage. 
Then there was a period when no action was taken, and one day in 1971 the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  came into this House and made the shortest speech a Prime Minister has ever made. In effect, he said: 'The Cabinet has met and has made a decision to resolve this deadlock as to the site of the new parliament house. It will be built on Camp Hill'. He then sat down. Unfortunately, the forces that were at work to destroy him - mainly the Press - finally destroyed him. They destroyed John Gorton, a Prime Minister.  His  successor did not make a decision on this matter. He did not go on with it. He, like any Prime Minister, has the privilege of putting in the wastepaper basket the decisions of previous Prime Ministers. He did just that and I suppose that if ever there was a man guilty of not having started or planned anything in relation to the permanent parliament house, it was the successor to the right honourable member for Higgins. I admire the* right hon ourable member for Higgins for his courage and for many of the things he did in this Parliament, and the decision he took to place the new parliament on Camp Hill was one of them. But it did not go any further than that. That was  2  years ago and we have got no further fast. 
I turn now to the 2 motions before the House. We have the one moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  which states: 
action should be taken forthwith to initiate the planning and design of the new and permanent Parliament House; 
That has already been done. It is all there in detail in the report that was brought down by that Joint Committee. His amendment continues: 
the design should encompass the total building complex but should permit staged construction; 
I cannot have a bar of staged construction of a parliament house. If we built the future parliament house in this way, it would be the only parliament house in the world that was built in stages. I know that the Minister wants to get on with it and I appreciate his initiative in putting the plans out in Kings Hall. I appreciate his energy in what he has done and tried to do but I cannot honestly support a parliament house built in stages. The third point of his amendment was: 
the site for the new House should be on Camp Hill, to permit the use of the first stage in association with the existing building, . . . 
The Minister was a Capital Hill man. He has changed his mind, and I appreciate that he did change his mind. Once he started talking about staged construction, he had to recommend Camp Hill as the site. We could not attach  this Parliament House to a permanent parliament house on Capital Hill. It had to be on Camp Hill, and that is the site on which I personally would like it to be built, though appreciating that it will have to be Capital Hill if a new separate House is to be built in a continuous program. But today I am going to vote for the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio. I still would like to see the new parliament house on Camp Hill but the joint meeting between the Senate and the House of Representatives will, I am afraid, defeat the Camp Hill site. But this is looking into the future. 
Nevertheless, let us come to this point: Wherever the new parliament house is built, on Capital Hill or Camp Hill, for goodness sake let us start the process moving as fast as we can. It will take 10 years to build a new parliament house. It will cost nearly $100m if it is to be built on Capital Hill because it will be a brand new building, not a staged building, not a bits and pieces building but a building started and finished and then lived in and worked in. That is the sort of building I want and I think most people around Australia would want that type of building, too. As the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  said a while ago- this will answer all the fears of honourable members - $100m seems to be a tremendous cost, but so it did for the Sydney Opera House. But that was built over 14 years. When we divide 14 into $100m, we find that that is not much a year and if we divided 10 years into $100m we would find the cost would be $10m a year. That is a small amount to put aside in each Budget for a brand new parliament house. So, I hope we will return to the decision of the Joint Committee and build that type of parliament house on Capital Hill, if it must be built there. However, I am disgusted with all the delays of the past Administrations. I feel that we are making an historic decision when we vote in this House on this matter today, whichever way the vote goes. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation on a decision I attributed to a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  I said that he overruled decisions of both Houses. In fact, he overruled the decision of the Senate. There having been conflicting decisions, the House of Representatives having decided on the site of Camp Hill and the Senate having decided upon Capital Hill, he took the view that because the House of Representatives was the appropriating House the view of that House should prevail. To that extent I misrepresented him. 

 Mr UREN (Reid- Minister for Urban and Regional Development) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In view of the 'Blythe Star' disaster and in spite of the miracle survival of seven of its crew, will the Minister for Transport investigate the possibility of having 2 amendments written into the Navigation Act, namely, that all captains of ships travelling around the Australian coastline notify their shipping offices of the route they intend to take to their destination, and that all captains of ships give notification of their position at sea at set intervals? I ask for these amendments because I understand that neither of these procedures is required to be followed at present. Will the Minister confirm that, had the first amendment suggested been in operation, the survivors could have been discovered within 24 hours of the disaster? What action is the Minister taking to set up an inquiry? 
I always have been opposed to consideration of the Estimates being interrupted by the introduction of Bills. I opposed it when I was Whip and I am opposed to it today. Bills should be introduced at the end of discussion of a group of Estimates, not half way through that discussion when honourable members are prepared to speak. I am very opposed to this. 
I do not share the paranoic pessimism of the Australian Country Party about the future of our Australian rural industries. Members of the Country Party are outdoing Jeremiah, the most pessimistic prophet of the Old Testament. They are having a field day in poisoning the minds of the farmers against us by making misleading and outrageously exaggerated statements and in sowing the seeds of misunderstanding in the rural areas. Members of the Country Party are prophets of doom today. It was fantastic, for instance, to hear the speech of doom this afternoon in this debate by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  He said that the rural man and rural industry were doomed. This is unadulterated rubbish. As proof I remind the Committee that the estimated rural export income for Australia for the next 12 months will be $3,900m, the highest in history and over $500m better than the exports for last year. The total income of farmers will rise by 30 per cent this financial year. To talk about doom in the industry is just utter rot, and I wish to emphasise that word. To say in this place that primary industry is doomed, or to go out into the country and say it, or to proclaim it through the medium of Country Party newspapers, is to tell those in the industry a great big lie. 
I want to refer to the rise in the butter fat price. The Australian Dairy Industry Council has been before the Prices Justification Tribunal seeking to lift the wholesale price of butter by 5c a lb. May I point out that in my opinion an increase in the price of butter to the consumer would be suicidal for the dairy farmers of Australia. My reasons are, firstly, that the dairy man would receive only a minimal share of the increased price and, secondly, that the drastic and dramatic fall in butter consumption in Australia over the past 12 months should startle the dairy industry into some intelligent reaction. The fall in the consumption of butter in the past 12 months is absolutely staggering. If this fall continues the industry will be forced into a serious reduction of its butter fat price to the producer. In Sydney, for instance, the decline in butter consumption in the 12 months from June 1972 to June 1973 was 20.4 per cent to an all time low of 42.8 per cent of Sydney's total consumption of commodities of this kind. In Melbourne the decline amounted to 18.1 per cent, down to 66.7 per cent. In Brisbane the decline in the consumption of butter has been 14.5 per cent, down to 49.9 per cent of total consumption of butter and margarine. These are frightening and disastrous figures for our industry. If there is a rise in the price of butter an accelerated buyer resistance will occur until the industry will have thousands of tons of butter on its hands to sell overseas at the ridiculously low price of about 25c per lb. Because the equalisation scheme averages the price received overseas and the home consumption price, it is easy to see that an increase in sales overseas, with a commensurate decrease in sales on the home market, will reduce the average price for the dairy farmer. There can be no other result. To talk of an increase at this stage is absolutely suicidal. 
Let me illustrate what happens when the price of butter is increased. The last price increase in the price of butter was 3c per lb in the wholesale price in August 1971. In the next 12 months after that increase was announced there was a reduction in butter consumption of 3,000 tons throughout Australia. That sort of thing will happen again if the price of butter rises. This time there could be an even greater reduction in consumption of 8,000 tons, according to one estimate, if the price of butter is increased by 5c per lb wholesale and 7c per lb retail. This would eventually reduce the farmers' total income. In fact, if the price rises by 7c per lb retail, it is suggested that the reduction in farmers' incomes will amount to $7. 98m. If we increase the price of butter, the domestic butter usage could fall from 88,000 tons a year to 69,700 tons a year, displacing about 1 8,000 tons of butter from the local market to be sold on the low price export markets. 
This is a disastrous situation, and I am amazed that the leaders of the industry are even suggesting such a ridiculous thing as an increase in the price of butter. Already the dairy farmer is squeezed by cost increases. The manufacturing and transport costs, of course, are passed on to him. A further increase in the wholesale or retail price of butter will ruin the producers' best market - their home market. A price rise for butter also will increase the demand for margarine and other substitutes and give them a field day. I believe that the present price should remain as it is or even be reduced by up to 3c per lb in order to increase the sale of butter in Australia. This would result in an increase in butter consumption and would mean that less butter would have to be sold on the cheap export market and more on the better home market. In due course this trend would result in a better equalisation price being received by our dairy farmers in the long term, and the home market would be saved and expanded. I am quite sure that a price increase would kill our home market. 
In respect of the dairying subsidy, there is a piece of history I want to give to honourable members. As you know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  the subsidy will be phased out over the next 2 years. During the 31 years of its existence, $77 3m has been paid to our producers, and $5 18m of it went to Victoria - to one State. Queensland received 8.5 per cent of the total butter subsidy; New South Wales, 9.6 per cent; Victoria, 69.9 per cent; South Australia, 2.5 per cent; Western Australia, 2.7 per cent; and Tasmania, 6.8 per cent. In spite of this subsidy, which was introduced as a wartime measure, 25,000 dairy farmers have gone out of butter production in the last 5 to 7 years throughout Australia - 12,000 of them in Queensland in the last 10 years. No one could ever convince me that the subsidy was designed to keep men on dairy farms. It has not done that and the money has now been built into the price of land and becomes a part of the economy of the farm. It has built up a sense of false security. It was never meant to be a permanent feature of dairy farmers' existence. 
I have had a look at the history of the subsidy. It was introduced in the Federal Parliament as the Dairying Industry Assistance Bill 1942 on 8 October 1942 by the Honourable Ben Chifley who was then the Treasurer in the Curtin Government. The reference to this is in Hansard, volume 172, page 1541. From 1 October 1942, $4m a year was allocated. Features of the subsidy were: Firstly, it was to be paid to producers of butter and cheese at 1.25d per lb for butter and 1.5d per lb for cheese. Secondly, it was a wartime measure and was paid to prevent a rise in butter prices to the consumer - a consumer subsidy. Thirdly, it was designed also to help dairy farmers to pay award rates to their workers, with the rates to be fixed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Court. Fourthly, the subsidy was to be paid on a differential scale according to the relative disabilities of the producers in different parts of the country and to assist drought areas. Fifthly, it was paid to stabilise the industry and to increase the production required to try to help the United Kingdom, which wanted 60,000 tons of butter from Australia and also to supply with cheap butter the Australian consumer and the American armed forces that we were feeding. 
The subsidy was criticised by the Liberal Party-Country Party Opposition when it was first introduced, although it finally voted for it. Most of the critics wanted a price rise in butter of 3d per lb, instead of a subsidy. Some suggested that it was a dole payment. Other speakers said that the subsidy should be paid on a flat rate basis to all producers. This course was finally adopted.  Mr Paterson  the then member for Gippsland, as reported at page 1594 of Hansard of 1942, said: 
One unfortunate effect of this proposal is that it will keep the problem of the dairying industry in the political arena year in and year out, and . . . that is undesirable. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  quoted a portion of the Coombs report to suit his own argument. Unfortunately most of us are inclined to do this, but that is dishonest. If I have ever done it then I think I too have been dishonest for not stating the facts fully. The Coombs report, quoted by the honourable member for Angas, states: 
Thus by spending an amount equal to 4 per cent of the wholesale price on apple juice they save in sales tax an amount equal to IS per cent of the wholesale price. 
That is the soft drink manufacturers. The report continues: 
The amount that the apple grower would receive from juice processors for apples used in producing the juice would probably represent less than 2 per cent of the wholesale selling price of the drinks. 
The honourable member for Angas quoted the following paragraph: 
There is little doubt that withdrawal of the exemption would have a marked effect on the incomes of apple growers, especially in the face of current adverse market conditions for Australian apples in the Common Market countries. The effect on citrus growers is difficult to measure but it is likely that there would be some falling off in the demand for citrus juice. 
The honourable member for Angas did not read the next paragraph which states: 
Nevertheless, looked at purely as a form of assistance to apple and citrus growers, the exemption is rather an uneconomic form of subsidy. For example, it is extremely unlikely that (net) benefits flowing to the apple and citrus growers whose products find their way into . the beverages concerned would amount to anything like the $25 million per annum at which the cost to revenue is currently running. If so, this would suggest that the concession may be an inefficient substitute for more rational schemes of both 'minimum income' support for the fruit-growers concerned and for appropriate industry reconstruction schemes. A scheme of the latter kind is, of course, already in being in respect of the apple industry. 
That fills out the story for and against the decision. I think the Coombs report is very sound in both ways. Of course there will be a detrimental effect on the industry with the cutting out of this particular assistance - a roundabout, back door assistance, as the honourable members for Denison  (Mr Coates)  aptly described it - whereby the growers are receiving about S5m a year. But it is costing revenue $25m a year to give the concession so that our soft drink manufacturers who are my boys - I support them 100 per cent - can use 5 per cent of this decoloured, deflavoured juice in their drinks. 
I should like at this stage to summarise the effect of this decision on our industry in Tasmania so that we can get it in perspective. The process of decolouring and deflavouring apple juice was invented in Tasmania in 1959 by a German refugee Jew, Hans Jacob of Hobart. He developed a new process for using apple juice in soft drinks. The process involved removing the colour and the taste from apple juice. One wonders what is left after this process has taken place. If one had to drink the stuff which is put into the soft drink on its own, one would be sick for a week. The process involves costly and sophisticated machinery and equipment. As a result of Hans Jacob's brilliant research and processing knowhow, there has grown up around the world a multi-million dollar industry. Until 1959 small, oversized and hail damaged apples had to be picked from the trees and destroyed or fed to pigs because there was no other outlet for them. The process developed by Hans Jacob has meant to apple growers million of dollars in income which, prior to 1959, they did not receive. 
Of course. Growers are receiving 50c a bushel for these culled apples. In Tasmania culled apples are worth $500,000 a year to our growers. One company alone, Port Huon Fruitgrowers Co-operative Association Ltd, uses 16,000 tons of these culled apples per year in making this sort of juice. As a result of the sales tax decision, one million bushels of apples will have to be dumped in Tasmania unless other uses can be found for them, lt will mean not only a loss of $500,000 to our growers but also that road transporters will lose about $125,000 in cartage fees and Hobart business houses will feel the effect of a reduction of spending power. Most of them are in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Denison. I am just putting the story before I start telling what has to happen to satisfy me on this decision. Smaller processors such as the Cygnet Canning Co. Ltd, L. H. Roberts and Son and E. W. Seabrook and Co., which supply juice to the big processors in Hobart such as Port Huon and W. D. Peacock and Co. Pty Lid will suffer a serious loss of income also. So will the Mersey Valley growers situated in the electorate of Braddon where my colleague represents them so ably. They have signed a contract to supply this sort of apples to Schweppes (Aust.) Ltd in Hobart. But the contract will now fall through. 
The decolourised and deflavoured juice goes from Tasmania by ship to the mainland ports to serve giant processors such the the Golden Circle Cannery in Queensland, Tom Piper Ltd and Plaimar Ltd in South Australia and Western Australia. All those firms cancelled their orders as soon as the Budget decision was announced. The juice is transported from Tasmania in 45-gallon stainless steel drums to all these destinations. The Budget decision will mean that 20,000 tons of shipping space will be lost to Tasmania in one year. Another serious repercussion is that one of the processors has $600,000 worth of juice on hand which he cannot sell anywhere else. This juice, decolourised and deflavoured, is useless for anything but carbonated drinks. He has tried to sell some of it overseas. He sent cables after the decision was announced but he tells me that he has had very little success in getting rid of this surplus. Therefore, I feel that when we look at it in the broad picture the effect is quite serious, but it is not hopeless. 
I want to mention now what happened in a debate on this matter on 23 August. I spoke on this subject on that night and was followed by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Today I am following him instead. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  also spoke. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was here on that night and listened to us. He made a very profound speech. 
Yes, he was moved. He gave the reason why this benefit was removed. He said: 
I think that once certain tax benefits are perverted by certain areas of industry we are entitled to take steps to correct the position. 
He claimed that the manufacturers of soft drinks have been using 'the situation for their own selfish, ends. Later in his speech he said: 
We regarded the concession as a lurk which is being used not to the advantage of the fruit industry but to the advantage of these firms, many of which are of the multi-national variety. 
The point is that the Treasurer felt that the firms were using Government assistance for purely selfish reasons. What are they going to do now that they are not using the fruit juice? What are they going to use in place thereof?  Mr Giles  - Artificial additives. 
MrDUTHIE - Artificial additives and probably more water. Their drink of course will deteriorate. That night the Treasurer said that if the manufacturers used 10 per cent of fruit juice they would fall within the sales tax provisions. But the companies have not decided to do this. I sent out messages and copies of these speeches to various people and asked the industry organisations in Tasmania to get in touch with these big fellows on the mainland to ask them to use 10 per cent of fruit juice in their drinks so that they would get the benefit of the sales tax exemption. Nothing has been done. This proves that they do not want to help the industry. They are evidently a bunch of selfish manufacturers who were actually gaining from this exemption from sales tax and are not prepared to make any effort to help the industry in return. In his speech the Treasurer said: 
I have indicated that I would prefer to give $5m directly to the fruit industry. 
The manufacturers get $5m now by means of this back door method. The Treasurer said on that occasion that he would be prepared to provide $5m a year to this industry to help it through the difficulty which has resulted from the foreshadowed withdrawal of exemption from sales tax. That is the way in which we as a Government have to deal with this matter. The Labor Party's Rural Committee has discussed it. We gave one night to discussion to it. We sent our recommendations to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  We have suggested ways in which the sales of apple juice can be boosted throughout the country. We recommended that a grant be made available to make this possible, and that the Treasurer's promise be carried out. The Treasurer was quite definite. During the course of his speech he was asked whether the figure would be $5m each year. He said in reply: 
If the fruit industry can show that it has a detriment to that extent, yes, but I would be surprised that if it did not use a little more incentive it could not sell the product on its own merits. 
That is the promise that was given. I feel that this is the place in which to deal with this matter. The Treasurer will have to be reminded of his promise. He will have to ask the industry to submit a documented case as to how the money could be spent most advantageously. The suggestions that I have made in that regard are, firstly, that the processors would have to be compensated for the stockpile of fruit juice on hand that cannot be used for anything else. If they do not receive some compensation for that fruit juice, how can they be expected to pay a reasonable price for cold apples, for fruit juice or for any other purpose? Secondly, the growers who are affected - there are not that many of them collectively - should be compensated, in this first year of the changes in the scheme, anyway, for the loss of income. In Tasmania this would involve only $500,000. If we made a compensation payment to each person on the basis of his sales last season - that would be the only way in which we could deal with the problem - that would be the most satisfactory means of assessing the amount of compensation. Then in the next 12 months we pould probably have to work out a more practical way in which to help them. But this would be a very important beginning, in my opinion. Since the Treasurer has made this promise, surely he would be prepared to carry it out. What is $5m, anyway, in a Budget of $ 13,000m which was brought down in this place a few months ago? 
The industry in Tasmania, represented by the Apple and Pear Growers Federation, has presented a very good case to the Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt.  It has pointed out the problems that will arise as a result of $5m being taken away from the growers, and it has proposed solutions to the problem. I have mentioned one solution already, namely, that the percentage of consumption of fruit juice should be lifted from 5 per cent to 10 per cent. In the case it has presented to the Minister the Apple and Pear Growers Federation stated: 
It is imperative that existing stocks of juice be disposed of. Juice manufacturers could not be expected to carry 'the loss of such stocks and still be in a position to pay growers a reasonable price for any juice apples next season. 
In presenting its case the Federation also mentioned the possibility of the Federal Government providing funds for promotion and sales of fresh apple juice and products containing a high percentage of apple juice on the local market. This, of course, is a must, a matter of primary importance. Our Rural Committee would agree entirely with the submission from the Apple and Pear Growers Federation. We cannot just let this industry die. We just cannot do nothing about the situation after taking away a benefit that the people in the industry have received for 30 years - for far too long. I believe that the present position is uneconomical but nobody has been ever game to tackle this problem before. We just cannot leave the industry without assistance of any kind. Another suggestion made by the Federation is that the Federal Government provide funds for promotion and sales of apple juice on overseas markets. The Federation says that it is believed that export potential exists but that the necessity for very rapid expansion of this market would require substantial expenditure over a short period; it is not realistic to expect individual processors to risk such large sums of money. The Federal Government could help in the long-term by assisting in the establishment of overseas markets for processed apple juice. Another suggestion put by  Mr R.  E. Wolf, acting secretary of the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania, is that the Federal Government should provide funds for research into alternative apple products from apples which formerly were used for juice. This would be more of a long-term project, but I can see no reason why the proposal should not be adopted. 
I have illustrated a number of ways in which the industry can be assisted. I believe that it must be assisted because at present it is suffering from problems such as excessive shipping freight rates and the effects of revaluation. All in all, the future of the apple industry in Tasmania and also, probably, on the mainland is not very bright. The introduction of the apple and pear corporation in place of the Apple and Pear Board will, I think, help the industry overall, but it will take some time to see the effects from it. This is a move in the right direction, especially on the marketing side. It is my view that apple juice should be on the tables in the dining room of Parliament House in the same way as are currants and raisins, which the previous honourable member for Mallee succeeded in having placed on our tables. I have been pressing for a long time to have Tasmanian cider included on the list of our table drinks. This has not eventuated, despite the previous  Speaker  and the present  Speaker  both agreeing that apple cider should be available in the dining room. Apple juice should be available also. It is a delicious drink. I always have it in my refrigerator right through the summer period. We drink gallons and gallons of it. It is the most refreshing drink that I know of. One way in which we can help the fruit industry is to promote fruit juices as a drink. Pure apple juice is a fantastically healthy drink and is much to be preferred to the watered-down drinks that we know as soft drinks. Soft drinks are watered down considerably because in past years then have contained decolourised and deflavoured apple juice. 
Yes. The Treasurer said this in his speech on 23 August. I feel that the apple industry throughout Australia should hold a conference with the big soft drink manufacturers and put this proposition to them. I feel there is a lot of common sense in the proposal. The growers would benefit from it immediately because they would receive virtually $7m to $8m instead of only $5m which they receive under the present set-up. I do not think the amendment is necessary. I think we can handle the situation without this sort of amendment. Our committee is looking into the position all the time and pressuring the Federal Minister. I hope that we can get to the Treasurer also in respect of his promise to provide $Sm a year to help out the industry. 
Has the Minister for Shipping anything further to report on his investigations into the Government's plan to subsidise Bass Strait shipping freight rates in order to remove Tasmania's freight disadvantage when compared with equivalent ton mile rates on the mainland? The Minister will recall the Prime Minister's promise on this matter in Hobart last November. 
I shall not waste my time answering the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in detail but will point to 2 matters to which he referred in his short speech. Firstly, he hammered the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his insulting remarks to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  A few minutes later he slandered Ministers of this Government for using motor cars on shopping expeditions. How can a man be so irresponsible and so inconsistent in such a short space of time? Secondly, he spoke about an appointment to the staff of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  I have it on good authority that a  Mr Sheppard  has this week been appointed as an economist to the staff of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  at a salary of $15,000 a year. What is good for the gander is good for the goose. Honourable members opposite are completely hypocritical when they start criticising us for doing the things that they did themselves. 
I want to talk tonight about the Australian opinion polls. The Australian opinion polls have become a massive brainwashing device in this country mainly manipulated by forces opposed to the Labor Government. With the right people selected to do the questioning it is possible to get the result they are wanting, especially on political questions. The elector who is interviewed could easily be of the same political complexion as the interviewer who would know the people in his district and their political affiliations. There are very grave dangers and discrepancies in this sort of set-up. For a true and honest selection of people to interview it is important that interviewers operate in areas where they do not know the people personally. The public opinion poll representatives will still say that they get a cross-section of the people, and so they do, but a cross-section of what sort of people? Since December 1972 the opinion polls have set out to get this Labor Government and to show it up in the worst possible light. Never have so many surveys been conducted in Australia before in a given period of time. During the regimes of the Liberal-Country Party coalition the poll organisations seemed to select times which were most favourable for taking public assessments of the Government's performance. But this year opinion polls have deliberately, cunningly and shamefully exploited the slight fall in Labor's electoral image. It seems to me that they have developed an anti-Labor bias which destroys their credibility. The polls have ceased to be what they have maintained in their charter to be from the beginning, interested only in assessing public opinion on national issues, especially electoral opinion. They have ceased to be a means of gauging public opinion or a means of assessing public opinion only. 
The public opinion polls are now influencing public opinion in a diabolical and ruthless fashion which was outside their original charter. They are brainwashing electors and in one sense they are making Hitler look like an amateur in brainwashing techniques. Never has this attempt to brainwash and shape public opinion been more in evidence than in the opinion polls on the popularity of political leaders. This technique moved into full blast during the past 3 years. The opinion polls gunned for the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and later the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  The poll people fed to the Press what the Press wanted to know at the time. The opinion polls created an image of both leaders as incapable, unpredictable, inept and indecisive. This image was then taken up by the media which took the result of the polls as gospel and printed in banner headlines 'Gorton is finished', and later: 'McMahon is on the way out'. This was pumped into people's brains constantly, subtly and deliberately. From an assessment of public opinion this massive exercise became a clever shaping and moulding of public opinion with the public being brainwashed on a national scale. 
How do people really know how a government is going or how leaders are going except through the media? And if this image in the media is a biased and malicious image the people are basing their opinions on biased and even untruthful material or evidence. More recently the opinion polls have been after the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  fashioning, moulding and shaping public opinion against both leaders with the dutiful public making the right noises for the opinion polls. In this sense they are a fraud and are enemies of sane, unbiased and uninfluenced decisions. I believe they have become a national menace. This week Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls is showing the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in rapid decline with the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and Bob Hawke in a big deal upswing. I ask honourable members to please note that Bob Hawke is not even in Parliament. Therefore, to compare him with the Prime Minister is both dishonest and irrelevant. To compare the Leader of the Country Party with the Leader of the Opposition is also false and dishonest because the Leader of the Country Party can never be Prime Minister while he is Leader of the Country Party. What, therefore, is the purpose of bringing these chaps, who are in opposing camps, into public opinion polls? 
Opinion polls feed the Press with unreal and exaggerated material. Anti-government editorial writers then write screaming headlines to further brainwash the gullible public, taking their cue from highly suspect opinion poll material. They only have to pound away with this exaggerated material month after month to mislead and brainwash the people. Finally I ask, what of the old Australian adage: 'Give him a fair go'? It seems to have disappeared out of the country. The Labor Government has been in office for only 1 1 months and it has not for a moment been given a fair go in the Press, on television, in cartoons, in most editorials or by some competitors. Therefore, both the opinion polls and the media are working in conjunction to produce the sort of image of the Government and the Party leaders that both desire, which can be off course in reality. 
In conclusion I want to say a few words about the conduct of the Opposition in this 
Parliament. I have been here for a long time. When I came here in 1946 the Labor Party was in Government. Then for a number of years we were in Opposition, and now the position has changed again. From my experience in that time I can say I believe that the present Opposition is the most arrogant, most negative, most abusive, disruptive, most ill-disciplined, destructive and noisiest Opposition the Parliament has even seen. After 10 months the present Opposition has not put forward one new idea or one progressive thought. It is bankrupt of ideas, yet has the colossal nerve to declare itself fit to govern again in this country. There are huge chasms of differences running between the Opposition leaders. 
 Of course they -are. They have imported larrikinism into the Parliament from the back streets on many occasions. Not all honourable members opposite could be accused of that. Only a small group, I would say, could be accused of that sort of conduct, but it definitely degrades the whole Parliament. Noise is supposed to be intelligence; larrikinism is supposed to reflect responsibility. No attempt has been made to have in depth research, generally speaking, of legislation put forward. There is just opposition, opposition, opposition for the sake of opposition. The philosophy is: If you see a head, kick it. 
An Irishman arrived in Fremantle once and asked the first chap he met: 'What Government is in office at Canberra?' On being told he said: 'Well, I'm agin it'. That is the philosophy of this disunited Opposition. Whatever the Government puts up is wrong; it has to be opposed just because members on the other side of the House are in Opposition. That means that the Parliament is listening to expressions of this destructive, disruptive attitude day after day, week after week. 'If Labor introduces a Bill, kick it to death', they say. That is their philosophy. Never mind if the legislation is desperately needed for the building of a better Australia. Just because the Labor Party has introduced a Bill, and they do not like our philosophy or ideology, they want to kick it, and kick it to death; and if it passes through the House of Representatives, they will kick it to death in the Senate for sure. This is a terrible attitude for an Opposition to adopt. We know that they have to oppose if what is proposed is utterly against their principles, but they are overdoing this completely and creating a great imbalance in the Parliament as a whole. 
I ask a question  of you,  Mr Speaker.  Because alcoholic drinks have become gravely suspect at official functions in this Parliament, causing unfortunate personal repercussions and embarrassment and the interruption of normal parliamentary business, will you,  Sir, suggest  to the Joint House Committee that Tasmanian nonalcoholic cider and Tasmanian apple juice be added to the drinks available in the Parliament House dining rooms and at official functions in the future? I recommend these drinks as wholesome, palatable, pure and safe. 
I appreciate the concern of Opposition members who have spoken. I appreciate their constructive suggestions, which are most unusual coming from that side of the House. I appreciate, also, suggestions as to how this legislation can be improved. The establishment of the proposed Apple and Pear Corporation is a major step forward in the organisation of the apple and pear industry in Australia. I am grateful that the honourable members who have spoken have wished the Corporation well, even though they might not agree with other aspects of it or with other clauses of the Bill. However, I think that the Opposition agrees with 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the Bill. It is gratifying that approval for this measure is so overwhelming. 
The establishment of the Corporation comes at a time when the apple and pear industry is in crisis - as if it has not been in crisis for many years. But the crises that are occurring are becoming worse and more serious every year. For instance, in Tasmania a few years ago there were 1,350 growers; there are now fewer than 600 - less than half. I said, by way of interjection to my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  that 5 years ago this industry was worth approximately $20m annually to Tasmania. It is now worth less than half of that- $ 10m. This illustrates the decline in the apple and pear industry as it affects my State of Tasmania which grows 70 per cent of Australia's apple production. Therefore, if there is a decline in production in the major apple growing State the industry is really sick. This measure is an endeavour to try to pump some sense into the organisation of the industry. The new corporation will go a long way beyond the Apple and Pear Board which it replaces. 
I am  chairman  of the Government Primary Industry Committee. Before the election when we were still in Opposition we hoped to establish a statutory marketing authority for apples and pears which would take over the entire crop and handle it from the paddock to the plate, wherever it was sold - at home or overseas. Members of that committee envisaged a very strong marketing authority with full powers. But we were only 3 people within a party. Honourable members opposite have brainy ideas at times but how far do they get in their party rooms? It is the party that decides issues. This applies to all parties. The majority decides. Our rural committee fought hard for the establishment of a statutory marketing authority even if it were to operate initially only in Tasmania and later spread to the other States. We were not able to convince enough of our colleagues that this was the ideal way to solve the problem and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and the majority in our Party decided on the establishment of this Corporation. 
The Minister has put a tremendous amount of work into this legislation to get it to the stage tonight where it is being debated in this 
Parliament. When the Minister introduced the proposal our rural committee suggested amendments to the draft legislation. He accepted two or three amendments that we suggested including one which related to grower representation on the Corporation. He thought that 3 grower representatives would be sufficient but we said that we wanted four. Four was accepted as the appropriate representation and tonight it is written into the legislation that on the Corporation there shall be 4 growers out of a total membership of nine, including the independent  chairman. 
Though some of us might have wanted a stronger measure with far more teeth in it we must be happy with what is provided. It is far more than what we had in the past. The people appointed to this Corporation must make it work as the legislation requires and it is up to members of Parliament to keep on the Minister's back, or anybody else's back, to ensure that the requirements are carried out in toto as they are stated in the legislation which will be passed tonight in this chamber and I hope in the Senate very soon afterwards. The election of the grower representatives was referred to by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  He tried to make out that we said before the election that there would be a grower controlled board. 
Yes, growers' representatives selected by the growers. I think it is a tweedledum and tweedledee type of argument to make a great point of the fact that by this measure the growers will select their 4 members and those names will be submitted to the Minister. He is not going to select them. They will be selected by ballot by the Apple and Pear Growers' Association in Tasmania, which represents the majority of growers there, and like organisations in other States. Of course they will elect their own growers. There has been no breakdown in our suggestions at all. The method may be slightly different but the end result is exactly the same. 
The Bill says that all members of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry. By appointed' it means that members representing growers will be selected from nominations submitted by the Apple and Pear Growers' Association. 
The point is: How do they nominate their own members except by ballot? 
They will have a ballot, and those names selected in the ballot will be submitted to the Minister. The 3 other members referred to in the Bill - members with special qualifications - will be appointed after consultation with the Apple and Pear Growers' Association and any other appropriate bodies. The Minister is not picking names out of the air; he will appoint the people nominated by these representative bodies. 
I would like to see at least two Tasmanian representatives out of the four. The suggestion of the honourable member for Murray is a fair one. To have two from Tasmania, one from Victoria and one from Western Australia seems to me a pretty reasonable representation. It means that the pear growers would be represented on the Corporation largely by the Victorian representative. The annual report of the Apple and Pear Board for 1972-73 indicates that 1,730,000 more cases of apples and pears were exported to Britain, Ireland, West Germany, Sweden, Belgium, Holland, Finland, Denmark, France and Norway for the last season than for the season before. Despite the critical situation in the industry and the smaller number of growers, production and exports were up considerably. So we have the apples; we have the markets: what happens in between? There is a problem with shipping. 
The suggestion that shipping freights will rise by another 13 per cent or 14 per cent in the coming season has dealt the industry one of its worst blows. The growers are frightened to think that shipping freights will in future be so much higher. There is a suggestion in the Bill that the Corporation will charter ships. That is a wonderful suggestion. I think this could have been tackled long ago. I know of one instance a few years ago in regard to meat exports to North America when the shipping line intended to lift freights by about 10 per cent. The Austraiian Meat Board immediately asked the Israelis whether they could supply charter ships to take the meat from Australia to North America, and they said yes. As soon as that decision was known, the North Pacific Line or whatever it was that was taking the meat decided not to lift its freights. If we had had a little more competition like that in past years the shipping conference, which encompasses 22 shipping lines, would not have been able to be so dogmatic or arrogant with its price rises as it has been. As the honourable member for Franklin said, the conference has been saying to us: You take our price or leave it. If you do not accept our freight rises the fruit will stay on the trees and rot.' This is how we have been going on year after year. I know that the former Minister for Trade and Industry in the previous Government,  Sir John  McEwen, was having battles with the group but he could never win them. Neither can we. They are a power unto themselves. 
If we could charter some Israeli or North European ships to help us out we might be able to contain freight rates or prevent them from being increased a great deal. I hope that the Corporation will examine thoroughly the aspect of charter shipping. Of course, they have to be special ships. The new containerisation method is not affecting apples and pears at the present time. Conventional ships have to be used, and these conventional ships are getting older and older. Some of them are going out of existence. I am afraid that we will not have the shipping space available for the next season's crop unless charter ships are brought in to help us out. I believe that shipping operators have promised to take  2i  million cases from Tasmania. We normally export about 3 million-odd cases. A lot of our fruit will be left behind if we do not have charter ships to bridge the gap. These are not party problems. They are not political problems. These are economic problems, and all honourable members are concerned about them, no matter to which Party they belong. 
The export of our fruit has been conducted by the Board with a great deal of sincerity and dedication. There are 30 countries taking Australian apples alone and about 20 taking pears from this country. We have to increase our markets into Asia because, with Britain having entered the European Economic Community, our exports to Great Britain are declining. The figures show that in 1972 we exported 2,968,000 cases to Great Britain but last year we exported only 2,614,000 cases, which was a drop of 354,000 cases to Britain alone. We exported 110,000 cases to Ireland in 1972 and only 53,000 cases last year. The figure for West Germany has gone up from 278,000 to 1,359,000. Sweden has gone up from 443,000 to 677,000. Belgium has gone up from 5,000 to 88,000 cases. Holland has gone up from 25,000 to 604,000 cases in that one year. Finland has gone up from 58,000 to 91,000 and Denmark has gone up from 145,000 to 171,000 cases. France and Norway imported fruit last year and they did not take any the year before. So these are very hopeful signs. Apart from Britain, Europe is still taking a tremendous quantity of Australian apples and pears. 
The Asian market is gradually improving too. As the honourable member for Franklin said, the Minister for Primary Industry has just returned from Japan after an interview with the Agricutural Minister there in an endeavour to solve the codlin moth problem. There is no codlin moth in Tasmania and we have told the Japanese this. Our fruit could go straight to Japan without any trouble and could fulfil all their health and quarantine requirements. I am hoping that the Minister convinced them. I hope that he took a case or two up with him anyway to hand around, to show just what quality fruit we produce. Japan is one great market that we could acquire. I believe that the conference to be held here next month will be successful. I believe that the first breakthrough into the Japanese market will occur in the next few months - perhaps with the next season's apples. Japan is our salvation. We are exporting to Japan twice as much in value as we are importing from Japan. The figures show that we are selling to Japan about $900m worth of goods and we are buying back about $450m worth of goods. So it is a marvellous market. We have a great credit balance there, and it would be a big help to us if they will take some of our fruit. The actual problems of the industry have been tackled by two or three methods, including the stabilisation scheme which was brought in a couple of years ago and which is a sort of half and half stabilisation scheme. I would like to see far more teeth in it and I would like to see an economic price guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 
The Tasmanian Premier came up to see the Prime Minister  .(Mr Whitlam)  this week regarding this short-term problem. I do not know in which way the Premier has asked for help, but I imagine the purpose was to guarantee next season's crop. The Tasmanian Government - this is where the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  was a bit off the beam - only promised to guarantee the crop last season for $2.60 a case. Tasmania is not an economic giant, and even this was a very big promise to make. The Tasmanian Government guaranteed to help growers for only one year. It now falls back on to the Commonwealth to help out in guaranteeing this year's price. I hope that the Prime Minister will have been convinced by the Premier's case, because it would have been a very strong and sound case that he put to the Prime Minister. I know there are these immediate problems and that this Corporation represents a long-term solution. We have the stabilisation scheme and we have the tree-pull scheme, 1300 acres of trees having now been pulled out in Tasmania. That involves a tremendous area. 
I do not know exactly what the percentage would be. I do not have the figures on that. 
It started about two or three years ago and it was one of the former Government's last solutions. I think it is a shame that we have to destroy fruit trees to try to" save an industry. It seems a very Irish way of doing things, if I may be forgiven for using that expression. Where is the sound common sense in pulling out trees to save an industry? I cannot see it, but there it is, and we have been doing this. The revaluation payments have been made. I understand that the growers with up to 5,000 bushels of exports have been receiving revaluation payments. This is an important point too and it is a short-term solution. But these things have not yet convinced the growers that the industry is on the up and up and I am hoping that the interview with the Prime Minister will be successful. 
I trust that this Government will come to the assistance of the industry in the short term so that we can save what is left of it and make what is left a viable industry. We do not want to see any more growers leaving their properties. We do not want to see any more fruit trees hauled out. What can these growers do with an orchard area that has lost its trees? As it is only about 10 acres they cannot plant anything other than small fruits and they are not a very strong substitute either. They cannot put cattle or sheep on the land. A grower who has to have his orchard pulled out is finished. 
Yes, adequate compensation is required if a grower is going to be forced out. I think the reconstruction scheme is catering for the problem where a man has to go right out of the industry. But the area where the honourable member for Franklin comes from has about 70 per cent of the apple growers in Tasmania. The situation is really serious because the towns themselves are now feeling the pinch through growers having to leave the industry altogether. The main parts of this Bill which I do not have time to reiterate - but we may mention them in Committee - are very valuable. They are an experiment in giving this industry a proper organisational, marketing and promotional status and I feel that those sections of it will be of great assistance. I am most grateful to  Mr Speaker  for what he did yesterday about cider and apple juice. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Whilst welcoming the setting up of a government meat inquiry committee to establish why falling meat prices are not passed on to the consumer, I ask: Would the Minister examine the possibility of establishing, as the best and only method of stabilising meat prices to both producers and consumers, a Federal statutory meat marketing authority armed with power to handle the entire meat industry in order to guarantee and stabilise prices to producers and exporters, to fix prices from the paddock to the place and, overall, to keep this important industry on a secure, stabilised and even-keel basis, thus avoiding the great fluctuations in prices which have bedevilled the producers and consumers for years? 
Will the Postmaster-General consider suspending any further downgrading of the 300 official post offices and the closure of 1,000 non official post offices until the recommendations of the royal commission into all ramifications of the Post Office are available? The royal commission was set up with commendable foresight by the present PostmasterGeneral, and out of it he hopes to get the green light for many major reforms. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Naturally, I rise to support this Bill which indicates that the Government is appreciative of the remarkable and unique part that the wool industry plays in Australia's economy. Rural industries, in fact, are responsible for 50 per cent of our export income, and wool accounts for 40 per cent of that. As has been said, this last season was excellent for the wool industry; so much so that the total income to growers for 1973-74 will be of the order of $ 1,200m. This will be distributed throughout the economy. All honourable members are glad that this is so and that the price held up sufficiently to provide this sort of return after two or three disastrous years. In excess of 60,000 Australian wool growers will share this total income. This season the total rural exports of Australia will approximate $3,000m, which emphasises the tremendous part rural industries play in our economy. 
I turn now to some of the comments made by honourable members concerning this legislation. It always amazes me that whenever a Country Party member rises to speak he looks for something on which to bash the Government - something to criticise and to gripe, moan and grizzle about. Country Party members must be Australia's greatest grizzlers although I join with them the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who is the expert. In my years in this House I have never known an Opposition which has been so negative, destructive and bitter and so lacking in ideas as the present Opposition. Honestly, most Country Party members - not all of them, for I exclude the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  who are tolerant men - would, if given a suit of clothes for Christmas, grizzle about its colour. They would find something wrong with it. 
 The suits would have to be made of wool, of course; but they would grizzle about something. That is a terrible attitude to adopt in this Parliament. 
This is an excellent Bill. What is it all about? The Government proposes a few changes with respect to payments for research and promotion for the wool industry. Up to the present the Government has paid SO per cent of the promotion costs and SO per cent of the research costs. This is being changed in a most interesting way. The Government will provide onequarter of the promotion costs and the industry three-quarters. But the Government will even that up by altering the payments with respect to research; Three-quarters of the total cost of research will be provided from Government sources and one-quarter will be paid by the industry. 
 It may not quite, but if the honourable member wants to grizzle about $400,000 from a total income of $ 1,200m he is splitting straws. He would be the best straw splitter in this place. 
 The honourable member's arithmetic is very bad. I shall give the total amounts. In the 3 years from 1974 to 1977 the Government will be providing a total of $6 1.4m and the industry a total of $8Sm. 
They are the total amounts that will be committed by both groups in the program. The industry has approved this pro posal. Country Party members do not even read the reports of the Wool Industry Conference which has agreed to the changes the Government has proposed in the allocations. They grizzle and gripe; yet the industry is on our side, not their side. That is a change, is it not? They think they have all the growers in their pocket. They think they have every farmer in Australia in their pocket. But they will come a thud. The farmers are not all with the Country Party. 
We will see about that. At any rate, that is the main change contemplated by this Bill. The wool tax is to be increased by 0.35 per cent to 2.75 per cent for the next year. As the original Act provides for a maximum rate of tax of 3 per cent the proposal is still well below the maximum rate at 2.75 per cent. Any surplus from this tax is to be paid to the Wool Research Trust Fund, where it will be carried forward to help finance expenditure in future years. I suppose honourable members opposite thought that the Government would pocket that excess, but it will not do so. The excess will go back to the industry through the Trust Fund. This is a very good decision. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who introduced this Bill said: 
It is the intention of the Government that the question of Government assistance in rural research and promotion generally -will be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. The Government's policy in relation to the continuation of assistance for wool research and promotion beyond June 1977 will be determined in the light of the report of the Commission. 
I sincerely hope that this new Commission will have settled down by then and will know where it is going in respect of rural industries. I hope that it will not be responsible for altering adversely Government decisions contained in this legislation. 
I hope that the Commission will look at promotion. What I really hope is that the Commission has the expertise to look at these things. I am still very suspicious of the IAC. When it comes to rural industries I wonder whether the Commission knows the difference between a bag of wheat and a bag of oats. The Commission consists of a brand new team. I do not know of any champion rural man on that team. I shall be watching the activities of the Commission with great interest. It could be that the reference of the superphosphate subsidy question to the Commission may result in a dead end. I hope that this is not so. But 1 have great suspicions about the Commission's capacity to handle the rural industry. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, the Government intends to refer the question of Government assistance in the field of rural research and promotion to the IAC. But I hope that the Commission does not dismantle some of the provisions made by this Government in regard to research and promotion. I hope that the Commission will recommend that the allocations should be increased and not decreased. 
The next point I want to mention is that the Government in this legislation and in other ways recognises the tremendous importance of wool in the rural and national economy. Secondly, the Government recognises the urgency of a continuing research program. We cannot afford to be blase or over-confident about the place or future of wool in the national economy or in consumer demand. To slacken our research program because we may think wool is eternal or that our total production will always be sold automatically and inevitably, would be the beginning of the end for the industry. Research therefore must be a continuing, vital program. I would like to refer to a submission compiled by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council dated February 1974. Under the heading 'Production Research' at page 26 of this excellent report the Council, in paying a tribute to Australian agricultural research workers which it claims are pre-eminent in the world - and I will go along with that - states: 
Their efforts have enabled huge technological gains in the fields of pasture improvement, plant breeding, plant and animal nutrition, pasture establishment and management, soil chemistry, animal genetics and animal reproduction. 
That is a summary of what has been going on in the field of production research. We must continue this research all the time because, like death, disease will never be beaten. Research will still be needed in this country in a thousand years because disease in sheep and cattle and the like will never be beaten. Germs inhabit animals just as they inhabit humans. This Government recognises that although there has been progress in this field there will always be a need for research. 
The Government has recognised the paramount importance of promotion in wool production and marketing programs. For instance, I believe it would be suicidal and disastrous to spend &gt;millions of dollars on production and research and to neglect promotion and marketing. What we produce in quality and quantity must be sold. Wool has had a remarkable record in that we have been able to sell all of our production. But had we not had a research and promotion program we would not have sold all of our production. This production would not have been sold automatically just because it was wool or just because it was wool that came from Australia. It is misleading to say that we have sold our wool in total year by year if we do not pay a tribute at the same time to the fact that the promotion activities of the International Wool Secretariat and other groups have made it possible to get rid of our total production. If we did not sell this wool then our economy would be truncated. What we have to sell must be publicised, advertised and promoted with continuing vigour, expertise and dedication. 
I pay tribute tonight to the International Wool Secretariat.  Mr Maiden,  the Managing Director of the International Wool Secretariat, has addressed our Primary Industry Committee. I have great faith in him and I pay tribute to his knowledge of the industry and his work in the International Wool Secretariat. When one reads the report introduced by  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden entitled: 'Wool Promotion - its Role, Cost and Effectiveness', one has a feeling of pride that we have people working overseas in many countries on behalf of our wool growers. This is a fantastic document. I do not have time to read all of it to honourable members, but I would just like to mention what the report has to say about the role of the Commission in respect of promotional activity. The report states that activities in this area include: 
The development of processes and treatments to improve the performance of wool during manufacture, to impart improved characteristics to wool products, to make wool more economical to process and to develop new products offering additional outlets for wool. 
The provision of technical services to manufacturers, so that they can make the best possible use of new and existing technology and can incorporate desirable properties or treatments in wood products. 
The provision of styling and f ashion services to wool users to stimulate the use of wool in highly competitive products. 
The creation of marketing programs which ensure that manufacturers make the best use of those services and that retailers stock the product in their stores and market them effectively. 
Quality control and licensing operations to make sure that products conform to specifications and performance standards and are identified on the shop counter by a distinctive and trustworthy label. 
Advertising directed both at consumers (to see that the public is aware of the wool goods which are on offer in the shops, to stimulate demand and to foster consumer preference for wool goods) and at processors and distributors (to persuade them of the advantages of tying in their efforts with IWS promotional cover). 
The person, group or firm that does not advertise is like a boy winking at his girl in the dark. He knows what he is doing but nobody else does. That is a fact; members of the Country Party should try it sometimes and see what sort of response they get. It is true that if one does not advertise one is winking in the dark and no one knows what is happening. 
Someone asked the IWS: 'Why promote at ali when wool sells so readily? Is not advertising largely a waste of money?' Of course it is not. Only a fool would say that. I do not think that growers are fools. Growers in dozens of countries have been spending money on promotional activities. The Secretariat on page 4 of its report states: 
At present, we are involved in the commercial introduction and promotion of a number of major advances in technology, including full machine washability; with shrink resistance and much faster colours, and methods of achieving improved flame resistance in wool carpets and fabrics. 
The report further on states: 
At the same time, however, one of the most basic lessons from the wool industry's experience in demand promotion has been that research findings and technological advances rarely find their way into widespread application in the textile and clothing industries without promotional support 
If one has something new one has to sell it. In order to do this one has to promote and advertise that product. The report continues: 
Without advertising there is every chance that the improved produce will fail to be manufactured or sold, or will fail to achieve quantity production soon enough to survive, thus wasting the funds invested in research and development. 
If people do not market properly or promote properly they will be last in the selling race. The report goes on to give the countries where Australian wool has been sold. Part II of the report states: 'IWS Promotion Campaigns in Action'. Some of the figures are quite remark able. For instance, Germany has had success with 'Country Look' styles. The report states: 
In the first season, 1969, one million running metres of 'Country Look' fabric was produced. This was pushed up to 8 million running metres in the autumn-winter season of 1971. 
The report states that in 3 years the IWS directly accounted for the use of 19.1 million lb of wool in Germany including 10 million lb from New Zealand. As a result of this fashion based promotion, 60 German weaving firms are now producing fabrics for 500 garment manufacturers collaborating in the Country Look' project. Another heading in the report is: 'Austria: Revival for a Traditional Fabric'. Under the heading: 'France and Italy: Style Boosts Wool Sales' the report states: 
In 1970, there were 30 garment manufacturers involved producing 60,000 'Woolstyle' garments and in 1971 the output rose to 200,000 garments. 
The report continues: 
The Italian branch of IWS has used 'Wool Trends International' designs from the International Wool Fashion Office to achieve remarkable results based on style. 
The Italian branch has increased its garment sales to 346,000 metres of pure new wool cloth. Other headings in the report are: 'United States: Superwash Stimulates Single Jersey' and Japan: Old Barrier is Removed'. There has been a worry about the washability of wool. This has now been solved and 'Woolmark' wash cycles are now incorporated in 70 per cent of the output of the Japanese manufacturers. 
The United States again has done a lot with crimp in carpet. Special wool has been produced in Australia for the production of carpets in the United States. Fifty major carpet retailers have sold more than 80,000 square yards of Australian made carpets. Every one of these stories in every country shows a remarkable increase in the last 12 months to 2 years in the use of Australian wool in various forms. I pay a tribute to the International Wool Secretariat for its tremendous promotional campaign and the success of it overseas. For instance, the IWS now has 12,998 licences in 39 countries - 500 more than last year. It started with no licences in 1964. In the first 7 years of the 'Woolmark* label campaign $13,000m worth of textiles used the 'Woolmark' label. That fact in itself tells a tremendous story of success. I repeat that in 7 years $13,000m worth of textiles have used the Woolmark* label which was introduced in 1964. I believe that this legislation, with its concentration on research, promotion and marketing research and in new end products, is a tribute to those who designed it and brought the legislation to us. I know that the industry itself is in favour of it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hallett)  adjourned. 
 I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the fact that the Senate will undoubtedly render unrecognisable the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which was passed last year by this House, and in view of the Minister's desire to establish rural co-operative processing factories in Australia, can the Minister overcome the limitation in the existing Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation to enable the present AIDC to assist financially the setting up of such rural cooperatives? 
As a Tasmanian it is only proper and right that I should make a contribution to this debate, so ably introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in respect of the death of a very great friend of the Labor movement, Nick McKenna. Along with the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  I was in this place in 1946 when Nick McKenna was first elected to the Chifley Cabinet and as the Minister for Educa tion said, his was a most distinguished contribution to the work of that Cabinet. As the Prime Minister said, he was the architect of the first Australian national 'health plan which foundered on the non-co-operation of the Australian doctors. Of the 7,000 doctors at that time, 162 supported his plan. One of the greatest setbacks and greatest disappointments that Nick McKenna had was the reception that that all-round and splendid scheme of free hospitalisation met among the doctors of Australia who he thought could be brought back to support it. But it was not so. 
Nick McKenna was a logical, forceful, forthright and convincing speaker. It is an amazing thing that most lawyers seem to develop this sort of pattern in their speaking. They have a lot of training at it. They are in court and they may have to defend somebody who is undefendable. They must put up convincing and forthright arguments. Nick McKenna was one of those who in the great tradition of Australian lawyers knew what to say, when to stop and the efficacy of logic and truthfulness in his arguments. This was the pattern of his speaking in the Senate. It was also the pattern of his speaking at our Australian Labor Party conferences in Tasmania, which he never failed to attend. He was a giant in debate at Australian Labor Party conferences. He put those conferences on the right track many times when they were going far off the track. He brought us back to the argument and to the case in point. 
Nick McKenna was a friendly man and 'he had a great sense of humour. He will be missed from the Labor movement. A remarkable fact is that in the 24 years that Nick McKenna was a member of this Parliament tie spent fewer than 18 months on the back bench. As one who has spent all of his time as a member of this place on the back bench, I feel that that must be a marvellous tribute to any man. In conclusion, I point out that the Minister for Education who spoke a little while ago mentioned the 4 surviving members of the 19 Chifley Ministers- 
 Mr Makin  did not actually serve in Chifley's Cabinet. Neither did  Mr Forde. Mr Makin  was sent off to Canada as Australia's High Commissioner to that country in 1946. So he did not actually serve in the Chifley Cabinet. But that statement does show to honourable members what time does to parliamentarians. About 150 members of this Parliament have died in the period since I was first elected to this place. It is sad to stand here and speak about the death of one of my great friends, a great friend of this Parliament and of the Labor movement, Nick McKenna. I extend my sympathy to any members of Nick McKenna's family who remain. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the disturbing story that postal and telecommunication charges are heading for a massive increase, will the Postmaster-General and the Government consider the fact that already business is falling in thousands of post offices, especially in country towns? As it is an axiom in private business that customers must be encouraged to pass  through  the front doors and that reduced prices in certain commodities are a method of retaining those customers, why does the Post Office not do likewise? Why is there a frenzy to increase postal charges and frighten customers away? Why does the Post Office not do the sensible thing and reduce some charges to increase business in post offices, to create goodwill which is rapidly melting away, and to give hope to postal staffs whose future advancement will suffer through the business decline? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Is it definite Government policy to force a long term cut-back in the Australian textile industry? If so, why? If not, has the Government made a decision to reduce the 25 per cent tariff cut in relation to textiles on the basis that charity begins at home and that our workers deserve security of employment before overseas workers in this industry? Is the Prime Minister aware that with another 70 dismissals in Launceston yesterday nearly 700 textile workers have now lost their jobs in 3 textile mills in Launceston and George Town, where re-employment is almost impossible? 
-I ask a question of the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that when the Australian Development Bank was established the interest rate was fixed at 6 per cent? Is it not a fact that though hundreds of farmers and industrialists signed Development Bank loan contracts at an interest rate of 6 per cent those people are today being forced to pay 1 1 per cent? Why are these borrowers, whose loans were signed, sealed and confirmed prior to the interest rate increases, required now to pay the increase? Is not 1 1 per cent a completely unreal and uneconomic rate to pay for purely developmental loans? Will the Treasurer review the interest rate for Development Bank loans negotiated and fixed years before the recent increases in the rate which is now 1 1 per cent? 
-This Budget is an honest attempt to tackle the problems facing the country at the present time. As an instrument of Government policy it is an attempt to distribute revenues justly across the nation and to outline the avenues from which the income for the Government will be gathered. Having listened to the speech of disaster and gloom delivered by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who preceded me in this debate, I really wonder why he does not take a single ticket to Russia or Portugal or one of the countries of South America.  His  speech was one of utter exaggeration, and that is what we have had to put up with in this place ever since this Government was elected to office. The Opposition cannot take what we are trying to do for the country in new fields of initiative and endeavour because it lives in the past. Conservatism is of the past and present, not of the future. Change never comes out of conservatism; only the status quo. 
It is on that subject that I want to say a few words right now. The momentum of postive activity, which started in December 1972, has been maintained at a fast pace, and in criticim one might say that it has been too fast in some fields for the people to appreciate it fully or fully understand its purpose It is essential that the story of new ideas and programs initiated by this Government should be told regularly and widely throughout Australia, and that is a most difficult task. I fear that many people suffered political indigestion in 1973-74 from trying to digest the amazing range and depth of policies implemented throughout the nation. Some people are against change. These people are mostly those who are so cemented in tradition, so married to the status quo, so entrenched in conservatism, with such a massive vested interest in the private enterprise system, that they regard change as a threat and a danger. Other people fear changes. They are so contended, so smug, so self-satisfied with things as they are that they fear changes which force them to think or to act differently. It is like people being forced to travel to work by a new route, to tackle a new job or to meet new neighbours. They are annoyed at the changes from their previous experiences. They are afraid to tread new paths or to face new challenges to pre-conceived ideas or philosophies. The Opposition at the moment is completely in that category. But changes there must be if society and the nation are not to stand still in sterile stagnation. 
Labor is a philosophy and a Party of change. It always has been and it makes no bones about it. All the major reforms in this country since 1850 were initiated by Labor whether it was in or out of office. Change, of course, involves courage to do it. Courage involves vision. It involves perseverance and dedication. Since Labor came into office in December 1972 our program of legislation in every field of the economy has been a monument to the courage of the men who initiated it and the humanity of vast areas of it. The need for new attitudes to our concept of nationhood is important and relevant. But what do we find on the opposite side in this Parliament? We find a bunch of knockers. They are now professional knockers. If there were an application for a champion knocker anyone from the Leader of the Opposition down would get a job anywhere in the world. I have never listened to anything like it in my experience in this place. We were a constructive opposition. We put our ideas up frequently in regard to what we would do when we came into office. But all that this crowd opposite is doing is standing at the door and knocking all night and all day until one gets sick and tired of it. The Press falls for it and gives this stuff full headlines. A person who is opposing something gets headlines. A person who is agreeing with something does not get headlines. That is a natural thing with the media. Inflation itself is too much money chasing too few goods and the moment that we try to draw the money supply from the community we are accused of taking stupid action. 
We spend it in another field to try to maintain employment. There is no easy answer to inflation. The whole world knows that. We have had to put up for a long time with these people opposite, these negaters, these champions of disorder, defiance and arrogance telling us that they know everything about inflation and they know all the answers. These are the people who stumped the country urging voters last year to reject the referendum which was designed to give the Government power to control prices of a restricted range of commodities. They ask us to control inflation now that the referendum has been defeated and we have one hand tied behind our back. These are the people who are now going around the country screaming blue murder, disaster and doom. Why, the prophets in the Old Testament were amateurs compared with these prophets of doom sitting in Opposition in this Parliament today. 
This colossal economic problem of inflation exists all around the world. We can lift production. We can urge wage restraint. We can make tax adjustments. We can appeal for price responsibility on the part of manufacturers and retailers. We can increase interest rates to draw off surplus money. It is repugnant for  any  Labor Government to do these things. A more effective weapon in the fight against inflation would be for the State governments to forget their parochialism, their State rightism, their political opposition to the Whitlam Government, and transfer voluntarily price control powers to the Australian Government for a period of 2 years over a selected field such as housing, materials, clothes, steel, cement, farm equipment and the like. The Liberal Premiers are so one-eyed that they have taken one glass out of their spectacles. They are so heartrendingly attached to the gospel of State rightism and so viciously opposed to this Federal Government that they put party politics before the welfare of the nation and refuse to give us the powers we need. That is one simple answer to the problem- short of a referendum in which we would be given those powers. 
The social justice of this Budget is evident right through it. It provides the greatest range of assistance to the sick, the aged, the disadvantaged, the poor, the students and the crippled which has ever been attempted by an Australian government. Millions of people will benefit from this assistance. Millions of people will have their dignity restored and their security made more secure and upgraded. Millions of people will feel that someone cares for them. Our social justice program is driving many glaring inequalities into the corners of society and out of existence altogether, lifting the standard of humanity everywhere. 
The transport situation is important, particularly to us members from Tasmania. Tasmania suffers a very great disadvantage. Bass Strait, in spite of its oil and natural gas supplies, really is the Achilles heel of our State and has proved to be so through the years. The Australian National Line moves 85 per cent of our total cargo into and out of our State. It is doing a valiant job in trying to handle this problem. Next year 2 new ships will come on to the run. Both will be added to the present fleet. That will be a tremendous boost to Tasmania. 
The freight increase which has just been announced and which is the first for 2 years has encountered great opposition from everyone in our State. The Labor Party members of this Par.liament were in constant contact with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last week. We reminded the Prime Minister of the promise he made in Hobart during the election campaigns in 1972 and 1974, when he said that he did not want to see Tasmania disadvantaged because of freight problems when compared with the tonmileage basis between Melbourne and Adelaide and Melbourne and Sydney. In a few days we had the Minister investigating the present position of our freight rates in relation to the rail freight rates charged between those capital cities. An unfortunate factor that has come out is that the rail freights between those capital dues have increased quite considerably. 
But we are hopeful that out of this immediate investigation and assessment, with which the 
ANL Chairman and the Bureau of Transport Economics are helping, we will find a chance, a reason, a justification for some form of subsidy to be granted immediately to help alleviate this problem. Perhaps it could be a subsidy of so much a ton. This would be interim assistance pending the release of the Nimmo report in the next 6 to 9 months. The Prime Minister initiated the report to try to get the facts so that he could be helped to carry out the promise which he made not quite 2 years ago. We would not preempt this report, but we feel that the matter is so urgent that something must be done immediately. 
Again this year the Government is giving $ lm to the ANL to help it in its passenger service, so that it can try to keep its deficit down. The ANL had a pretty good run from about 1955 to 1971- for 16 yean. On its operations it made an $ 1 8m profit. It is only because costs have gone up and because of some industrial trouble last year which also affected it that it is now running into a deficit. 
-I believe that with the 2 new ships it certainly will pick up. That will be the answer to Tasmania's transport problems. I mention Air Tasmania Pty Ltd which was formed in Tasmania 11 to 12 months ago and which was established with $40,000 of State Government finance. This was about 80 per cent of its total initial capital cost. With a DC3 aircraft that is expertly piloted by Captain Terry Burns, the Chief Pilot, it has in the last 1 1 months carried 10,500 people intrastate - Hobart - Queenstown - Strahan - Wynyard - Devonport - Launceston - Hobart. I cannot praise the airline's operations too highly. It has never had an accident. It has never had a delay. It has never had anybody complain. It has kept to a strict schedule. It has really made an outstanding contribution to overcoming Tasmania's internal transport problems. 
Some of us have been trying to get the airline another aircraft. That has been most difficult because a DC3 aircraft which comes on to the market has to be tendered for and the tendering is open to foreign companies as well. It is a pretty difficult thing to break through. The DC3 aircraft that we have already had a look at have gone. The airline is still operating with one aircraft. It has offered to help Flinders Island overcome its problems. My colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has been working on this one ever since Ansett Airlines of Australia announced that it is going to pull out of the service. Air Tasmania has offered to provide the Island with a service in a very regular way and with a very good schedule. We hope that it will be given the licence to operate a service between Flinders Island and Launceston as often as it can. That would be a great boost to the Island, especially if it were to lose its present service, as it looks certain of doing. 
The airline has a tremendous success story to tell. I believe that, as a Government, we should be trying our very hardest to help it to get another aircraft. The Minister for Defence and I helped it to get a spare engine recently when its engine had to go in for maintenance. We got it a loan of an engine from the former Department of Supply. It has been helping the airline out over recent months. But how can an airline operate properly and be expected to do the job it wants to do with only one aircraft? I appeal tonight to all of those people who are responsible for aircraft in this country to let me know if they know of a DC3 aircraft that is up for sale. Air Tasmania certainly will be tendering for it. 
The devaluation of the dollar has generated a new wave of confidence throughout Australia. If one reads the Press of today one will find all sections of the community, especially the rural industry leaders, saying that it is an excellent decision, which it is. It will mean that we will be able to sell more of our products overseas. Perhaps we will have to sell them at a cheaper price, but what is the good of putting a high price on our products if we cannot sell them? It is much better to be able to sell our products and increase the volume of our exports to help our industries. That is exactly what devaluation will do. It was a most statesmanlike decision that was taken on the part of the Government in the last 24 hours. 
The fishing industry in Tasmania is a part of the Australian industry that the Government promised to upgrade. The Fisheries Research Division of the Department of Agriculture, which is administered- and administered very well by the way- by the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  allocates money to fishermen to help them to buy new boats and to upgrade their gear. The Prosser Fishing Company at Triabunna has just completed and launched a $140,000 mid-water trawler. It is the largest of its kind in Australia for trawling. So far it has not received any help from the Research Division in the way of the allocation of funds. I have again appealed to the Minister for Agriculture to have a look at the story of courage in investing in this magnificent trawler, which will carry 40 tons of fish and will operate more than 20 miles off the coastline. It will be an asset to our industry. 
The fish will be brought into Triabunna and processed by Albert Thompson and Son Pty Ltd. It will process the entire catch all the year round and sell the lot. I believe that this company, which employs only local men except a Canadian who is an expert in trawling and who is the captain of the vessel, should receive assistance from the Fisheries Research Division. It is part of our policy to do this as a government. I make that appeal tonight on their behalf. 
The rural problems in some fields persist but I believe all is not lost in our rural industry though there are things being done with which I and others on this side of the House could not agree. We were not in the majority. In the long term the Government will lift rural industry out of many of its problems. For instance in the 1 974-75 Budget there is a total outlay for rural industry of $48 7m, which is $150m more than that given in the Budget of the last Liberal-Country Party Government of 1972. This is in earnest in what the Government is trying to do for the rural industry on the financial level. It is true that the dairy subsidy will be phased out at the end of next year but the Liberal-Country Party Government would not have retained it either had it been re-elected at the last general election. The superphosphate bounty goes out at the end of this year. I am working now on the New Zealand scheme which I feel we should try to implement in Australia. In that scheme a subsidy is given of so much per ton up to 20 tons, which is the average usage throughout Australia for the 294,000 holdings in this country. Our resources committee will be dealing with a submission I have made at its request next Thursday night and I hope that might get to the Industries Assistance Commission for its consideration. This would answer the problems of superphosphate usage. I have worked out in my research on this matter that there will be 1 million tons less superphosphate used the moment our superphosphate subsidy goes and that Wl reduce our total production by $200 m a year. 
No. Whatever their usage they would get a subsidy in respect  of  up  ;o 20  tons a year and no more. All the big men would be subsidised in respect of only  X'-  ions and  all the average growers of Australia would  get  their 20 tons subsidised say, at  $8  a ton  or  something like that. That is the scheme  that  operated in New Zealand from June 1973 to  1974.  New Zealand has now taken the restriction off and it is going to pay a subsidy on all superphosphate used which will cost that country $36m. This is just another way to tackle this important problem. Superphosphate is to the soil what oxygen and nitrogen is to our bodies. 
In conclusion I want to say that the rural industry was responsible for earning $3,254m in export income last year. The total value of production from our rural resources was $4,909m. The growers are still in debt to banks, pastoral companies, machinery firms and hire purchase firms to the tune of $2,000m. Last year they were able to pay $589m off their debts. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. In view of the fact that Air Tasmania, which is 80 per cent government owned and which was launched without any Australian Government subsidy 12 months ago, is operating with only one DC3 aircraft, and in view of its splendid record in carrying 12,000 passengers and 60,000 lb of freight without incident, will the Minister's Department double its efforts to find another DC3 for this airline? Is the Minister aware that Air Tasmania has applied for a licence to operate Flinders Island and King Island services now that Ansett Airlines of Australia has pulled out? Finally, in view of the fact, as I understand it, that the Government intends to give 2 DC3 aircraft now at Sale belonging to the Royal Australian Air Force to  Mr Somare  for Papua New Guinea, as Tasmania's need is greater will the Minister give special priority to Air Tasmania in its battle to get another aircraft? 
-This legislation is long overdue. It is remarkable that under previous governments from 1956 to 1972 so little was done to provide essential improvements in the Australian National Line. The reason for this is that previous governments reluctantly brought the ANL into being in the first place. It smacked too much of socialism for a Liberal government to have anything to do with the setting up of an Australian owned shipping line. For years and years on the Opposition side of this House my colleagues and I asked the Menzies Government and the Holt Government to bring our shipping line into a compact shipping line in its own right trading around the Australian coast and overseas. Years and years went by before agreement was finally reached. In 1956 the Menzies Government established the ANL and we have supported it 100 per cent. But the Line was like a man with one arm tied behind his back or, in speaking of shipping, a shipping line with one of its anchors tied behind the funnel. 
I will outline some of the disadvantages that the ANL had to face in the early years of its operations. It has had only a part time Commissioner in charge of it. In the first instance, that is a downgrading act and it makes him a second class citizen. There was a part time Chairman, if you please, of this Line which even at that time had 42 ships under its flag. Then the Menzies Government decided to clip its wings in another direction. It insisted that the passenger bookings for ANL should be done by private shipping companies. That, of course, was the boner of the entire legislation. What a wonderful way for the Opposition to find out what was going on when the private companies, in effect, were carrying out the bookings for ANL passenger services. That was an outrageous requirement in establishing the Line. The first thing that the ANL had to fight against was the move to send it out into unprofitable shipping routes. Every time an unprofitable shipping route came along the ANL was sent to do the job. In the early years of its operations many of its losses were a direct result of having to operate uneconomic routes. The fourth disadvantage which the Line had under earlier legislation was that its operations were confined to coastal shipping. It was only very recently that the Line went into overseas trade. Yet from the beginning of the operations of the ANL we insisted that it should also be an overseas shipping line. 
They are some of the disadvantages that the ANL has had to put up with. Some of them will be corrected under this legislation particularly in relation to the part time Chairman. He will now be a full time officer. I think all the officers and the staff of the ANL have done a fantastic job when one considers all the disadvantages they have had to face and all the impediments that were put in their way by previous Liberal governments to which a socialist enterprise is anathema. I feel that, though they have had difficulties particularly in relation to trade between Tasmania and the mainland, they are to be commended for the way in which they have carried out their duties. I have had a lot to do with them. Whenever there is trouble you only have to raise the matter with them and they will do their best to iron it out as quickly as possible. Operating with one anchor tied behind the funnel I think the ANL has really carried through a magnificent work program for the benefit of this nation since 1956. 
I also mention that under this legislation a further improvement will be the provision to reimburse the Australian Shipping Commission for losses by way of subsidy. This is something which the Line has never had in the past. This provision will give the Line greater freedom of operation. It will give it a better chance to balance its budget and to carry out the policy of the Government. I commend the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has been active in this matter since he became the Minister at the end of 1972. There have been fantastic improvements in the ANL under the Labor Government. The Labor Government is committed to this type of enterprise and wants it to be the very best that can possibly be developed. In my opinion, the additional ships which the ANL has obtained since the present Minister took over are a credit to him and to his officers. In its shipping services the ANL started with 42 ships with a total dead weight tonnage of 250,960. That represents an investment of $24.5m. The fleet now, all these years later, comprises 31 vessels with a combined dead weight of 651,136 tons. The point is that the number of vessels has decreased but the tonnage has gone up. The vessels used in the early days, the E class vessels, have now completely outgrown their usefulness, and in their place have come much larger vessels. That is why there has been a decrease in the number of vessels, but not in tonnage carried. 
The Line has fixed assets valued at $183m. The turnover of the Line has increased from $32m in 1957 to well over $100m today. It was the first to introduce the roll-on roll-off concept of transportation into Australia's coastal shipping as a fast and economic method of moving passengers, freight and vehicles. The Line has a further 5 ships for the coastal trades on order. It has 4 modern vessels for the overseas trade at the moment. Another two, with a third on order, are planned. Four large bulk carriers for the overseas bulk trade are also on order. That is a remarkable program of modern ships which will put the ANL in the forefront of shipping companies. 
On the point of new ships, it is interesting to know that since Australia has gone into the trade with Japan with our vessels our share of the trade has increased, as a result of successful negotiations, from 17.2 per cent to a level which is expected to reach 30 per cent by 1979. The Line has also achieved an increase in the wool trade to Japan from 23 per cent to 28.3 per cent. To carry this increased cargo volume a hybrid roll-on roll-off cellular container vessel, the 'Australian Emblem', is being built for use in this trade and was launched on 9 August this year. It is a 22,400 dead weight tonnage vessel with a capacity of 1431 containers of 20 feet length. That is a magnificent vessel. The Line's Australian partner in the eastern sea road service, the Flinders Shipping Co., has negotiated the purchase of a similar vessel. The 2 vessels already in the trade, 'Australian Enterprise' and 'Matthew Flinders', are to be converted to the east Asia trade to provide an entirely independent Australian flagship service to Korea, Hong Kong and the Philippines. The Commission has arranged to purchase 'Matthew Flinders' from the Flinders Shipping Co. This is in keeping with the transfer or shift of trade from Europe and the United Kingdom to Asia. It is quite a remarkable ship. As a matter of fact, our trade with the United Kingdom at the present time is only about eight or nine per cent of our total trade. Our trade with Japan is nearly 40 per cent of the total, and she has become our greatest trading partner. This will mean that the Asian trade with countries besides Japan- countries like the Philippines, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Malaysia- will benefit from the Australian Shipping Commission bringing in an increased number of ships. Two vessels are on order for the Australian-European trade. There are also ships on order for the bulk minerals export trade and two more bulk carriers are on order also. For the coastal trade the Line has been given approval to purchase 2 general cargo vessels, the first of which is scheduled to enter service in February next year and the second a year later. In addition the Line has ordered two 25,000 ton bulk carriers, and these vessels are expected to enter service in November 1976 and May 1977. 
The final story of this part of the activities of the Line under this Government is that 1 1 ships are currently on order for the ANL as well as associated seaboard equipment necessary for their operation, involving a total capital expenditure of approximately $235m. Finally I just want to say a big thank you to the Minister for Transport and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for agreeing to the suggestions put to them by the Tasmanian Labor members over a period of one week, with 9 hours of interviews in all, for $2m subsidy to help Tasmania at the present time. 
-I was just one of the team. It is teamwork that counts, as the Richmond football team showed in Adelaide recently. The teamwork that we demonstrated really showed results. We achieved more than we ever did before in combined representations to the Minister for Transport and to the Prime Minister. The 25 per cent increase in the freight rates charged by the ANL was only the first increase for 2 years and was fully justified. The Government has been criticised for it, especially in the Tasmanian Press, but how easy the Press forgets the previous Government's record in any field. For instance, let me give the complete story of what it did with freights. In August 1970 there was an increase of 12ยฝ per cent in all Tasmania's general cargo freights. In July 1971 there was a 12Vi per cent increase in freights between Sydney and Tasmania and an 8 per cent increase in freights between Melbourne and Tasmania. These are very substantial increases. There was no attempt to subsidise Tasmania against the impact of those increases which amounted to about 30 per cent in all. Yet under this Government we have achieved a victory, as I said, with a combined approach, a teamwork approach, to the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister. Tasmania's situation was so desperate as a result of the 25 per cent increase in freights that we could not wait for the result of the Nimmo committee's inquiry. We pre-empted its report to a certain extent. I only hope that we give  Mr Justice  Nimmo some guidance in what we have already done in introducing this $2m subsidy. It means that he will know about it. It may come into his consideration. But anyhow we have done it for better or for worse as far as the Nimmo report is concerned. 
Once this Bill has passed through the Parliament the Government will be able to subsidise northbound freight from Tasmania immediately. The effect in Tasmania will be a $2 a ton subsidy. This is a wonderful way to help Tasmania in her shipping difficulties. Bass Strait is the beef road of the south, as it were, and freight carried across Bass Strait by ship deserves to be subsidised. Remember that the beef roads in northern Queensland were built with money from the Federal Government. Tasmania is only asking for what was received in the north when we ask for subsidisation of the Tasmanian freight. The Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister have virtually carried out the promises made at the 1972 and 1974 elections. I hope that when the Nimmo report is filed, presented and studied we may find the answer to Tasmania's sea road problems for the next twenty or thirty years. I hope that this report will dig out all the anomalies and give the answers to them all.  Mr Justice  Nimmo has gone overseas to study freight rates on the shipping service from mainland Great Britain to Ireland for the purpose of writing into his report what other countries are doing in this field. I hope that as a result of this measure the Tasmanian shippers sending cargo out of Tasmania, the farmers, the manufacturers, the mineral interests and others will appreciate that something has been done that has not been done before. We have broken new ground, and the Minister earns our praise and thanks for his willingness to consider the proposition Tasmanian Labor members put up to him. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  on a most moderate, reasonable and constructive speech. It would be better if we had a lot more such speeches from the other side of the House instead of some of the ravings that we have been listening to over the last 12 months. I agree with the honourable member for Forrest regarding the extent of the problems of the beef industry. On 3 October the Government Members Resources Committee, of which I am a member, met  Mr Baden  Cameron representing the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, a council formed about 8 months ago.  Mr Cameron  put forward his submissions to the Committee. I agree with the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  that it is now up to us to analyse the submissions and to see whether there is something practical that the Government can do for this big industry. To my knowledge this industry is the only one that has never received any government assistance. It is away out on its own; it is in Siberia as far as government assistance is concerned, mainly because it has never asked for assistance. It has been a self-reliant industry. But now with overseas exports and prices in a hopeless position because of the situation in Japan and the United States, it has now come down to bedrock and needs help. I am sincerely hoping that we will be able to tabulate the best ways of assisting this industry at the present time. 
The rural industries of Australia are our most important industries. Let no one, no matter what side of politics he is on or where he lives in this country, forget that fact. With 53 per cent of our exports coming from the land, no government can afford to neglect any sector of rural industry. Rural industry is hit by weather conditions and economic conditions harder and faster than any other industry. Things may be going really well one year, and then within 9 months a drought, a flood or some wretched holocaust may descend upon the country and all the profit of the previous 12 months may be lost overnight. We must have flexible policies dealing with rural industries because of the impact of weather and other conditions upon them. 
Last year, for instance, our rural industries earned $3,254m of export income. The total value of rural production in Australia was $4,909m. Last year, in the good times, the rural producers of Australia paid $589m off their overdrafts in the one year. 
We have initiated new ventures in the rural area. Not everything we have done has been bad, as some honourable members on the other side of the Parliament would try to make us believe. Constructive programs throughout rural industry have been initiated under the excellent guidance of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  who is deeply concerned with all aspects of this industry. For instance, the rural reconstruction plan is being continued at $28m a year. Let us look at the difference in the number of applications for assistance under the plan. In 1971-72 the monthly average was 791; last year, the number dropped to 16 per month. 
Yes, I know. But the point is that the number of applications might creep up again in the next 12 months. Rural reconstruction assistance is available for men if they need it. The Government has introduced expertise into marketing boards. We do not believe that just because men are producers they are good marketers. 
Just a minute. Men in rural industry agree with us. Today we need men who can sell products on the tough competitive world markets. So the Minister for Agriculture is appointing to our marketing boards one or two men with expertise in marketing. 
We have also established the National Rural Advisory Council whose members are meeting the Resources Committee tonight. They will be bringing forward some of the problems of rural industry. We have also established new overseas markets, particularly in China, for wool and wheat. We have upgraded the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia and widened its power of assistance to rural industries. We have also introduced a guaranteed price of 250c a kilo for 21 micron wool, and this has been appreciated. The honourable member for Forrest acknowledged it, but precious few ever acknowledge it. The more you do for some people in this country the less thanks you get. I have found that out in my 28 years in Parliament. That applies to people in rural industries as well as other people. 
We have guaranteed to stabilise the apple and pear industry. We are continuing what the previous Government did. We have also set up the Apple and Pear Corporation with new powers and new initiatives, but I still believe that we should have set up an apple and pear marketing scheme to handle the whole crop because the industry is going downhill fast and needs some drastic measure to restore it and hold it from going out of existence altogether. 
The dairying industry has received a lot of assistance. I must commend the Australian dairy adjustment program, which includes the dairy assistance plan. I have never had more requests for help, guidance and information from any section of farmers than I have had from dairymen in the last 2 months about this scheme. It will provide interest-free loans to dairymen who wish to switch from butterfat production to whole or bulk milk production. They will be the only loans in Australia that are interest free. Honourable members opposite tell us that the Government is doing nothing for rural industry. The only interest-free loan available to anybody is the one we are giving under the dairy assistance plan. It will enable farmers to purchase and install type 95-40 refrigerated vats, make structural alterations to the dairy, improve roads into the dairy and make any water and electricity alterations consequent on the installation of the vat. Repayments of the loan are arranged between the authority in each State and the individual dairyman according to how long he wishes to repay the loan. There are many other wonderful features of this scheme. It will be backdated to 23 July 1973. Anyone who borrowed money to buy a vat on or after that day will be recompensed under the scheme for his interest repayments but not his actual capital repayments. 
The whole dairy program has been uplifted through the extension of the broadened dairy adjustment scheme. All in all the dairy industry will receive perhaps the most practical assistance of any industry. The idea of switching from butterfat to whole or bulk milk is to give the dairymen a better price for their product. This will lift many of them out of their economic insecurity because there is such a demand on overseas markets for the by-products of our milk. I commend the Minister for bringing down and the Cabinet for approving this remarkable assistance plan for the dairy industry. I want to mention also that the superphosphate issue is still a very virile one in the country. I would say that this one issue cost the Government more support than any other issue throughout the country because everybody on the land uses superphosphate. It is like eating; everyone has to eat to live. Superphosphate is used extensively throughout all sections of rural industry. It is hoped that the Industries Assistance Commission will come forward with some practical proposals to help farmers on this issue. 
The phosphate rock position is quite serious because the price is going up overseas and Australian fertiliser companies will be paying more next year for their phosphate rock- a basic raw material- than they are paying now. The subsidy of $12 a ton to the farmers will be gone by the end of this year, and this, plus the increase in price, could bring the price to the farmer to around $50 a ton. This would definitely mean a decrease in the use of superphosphate. If the farmers use 10 per cent less next year, that is one million tons less of superphosphate that will be used and the production decrease would amount to $150m because of the reduction in superphosphate usage. So to maintain overseas markets, to maintain the viability of farming, to maintain quality of production and fertility of the soil, some form of assistance will have to be given to maintain maximum production through maximum superphosphate use. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
I am going to try again,  Mr Speaker.  I hope I get through this time. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. 
Can the Minister reaffirm the Government's specific plans to assist Launceston 's textile industry? 
-Every time an Opposition member gets up to speak we hear the same old record. The only difference is that we hear a different voice from a different electorate. But we are hearing the same sort of speeches being made day after day. These speeches are being repeated in the media day after day. Commentators and writers in the newspapers love the sheer exaggeration that is uttered in this place. It is incredible that members of the Opposition can keep on repeating the type of tripe that I heard tonight from the honourable member for 
Indi  (Mr Holten)  who has just spoken in this debate. 
The honourable member talked as if the Government wanted to take over every private industry in this country. What a lot of rot this is. This is the type of fear campaign that is being generated by the Opposition. If members of the Opposition had spoken during the war in the way they have spoken in this place in the last few months they would have been up for sedition. They would have been charged with trying to damage the status of the country and the attitude of the people to their country. But, of course, in peace time they can say the most outrageous things in order to get publicity. As I have said, the Opposition keeps telling us, like a record being repeated over and over again, of its philosophy of doom and of the destruction that is upon us. But have a talk to the retailers about what will happen at Christmas and they will tell you that they will have record sales. A total of 10 colour television sets were purchased for cash in one shop in Launceston a fortnight ago. But according to the Opposition the country is going to the dogs. I ask honourable members opposite to get down and find just how much truth is in their predictions. 
Of course there are areas of great concern but why should members of the Opposition make criticisms across the board when they are really talking about some individual downturn in unemployment. This is the attitude that I condemn. The Opposition has every right to condemn us where condemnation is warranted but it does not have the right to extend this criticism across the entire Australian economy where large areas are still going well. And the retailers will tell us, if they are telling the truth, that this is so. 
We are discussing the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Every time members of the Opposition talk about manufacturing industries they say, of course, that the country is closing up or that we are in the middle of another depression or another recession. As I said, if some honourable members talked this way in war time they would be put behind bars. A depression is not on the way. The downturn in the textile industry which has been hit the hardest has now been held. I admit that the 25 per cent across the board tariff reductions finally bored into the textile industry, and perhaps the footwear industry, harder and deeper than any other industry. It was sometime before we were able to learn the true position in which the textile industry was placed. Once the true position did surface the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to their credit set to work to stop the rot They held conferences with representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian textile industries. 
The first moves in this direction were taken way back at the end of July. They resulted from figures which showed that imports of basic textiles had increased from $347m in 1972-73 to $579m in 1973-74. This represented an increase of 67 per cent. The figures showed that the value of clothing and accessories imported into Australia increased from $63m in 1972-73 to $122m in 1973-74. This was an increase of 94 per cent. Some people were able to make a bonanza when the tariffs were lowered. They were able to buy cheap clothing from, for example, India. They could buy a shirt for $2.50 and sell it at an 800 per cent profit These are the people who ought to be put on the rack. These are the people who viciously and villianously exploited the cheap imports that came into this country under the lowered tariff boom. 
When this situation finally emerged and was correlated and assessed the Ministers concerned immediately set to work to try to rectify it. Then, for the first time an Australian Government sought restraint in regard to international trade in textiles under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. These negotiations were conducted by a top level team from this country. As a result the Textiles Authority, which was set up within the Industries Assistance Commission, recommended restraints to take effect from 1 July on the following products: Items of knitwearmen's and boys' shirts; coats, cardigans, jumpers, sweaters, women's blouses, shirts and the like; dresses; tracksuits, playsuits, rompersuits in respect of imports from Taiwan, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea and the People's Republic of China; women's and girls' dresses, blouses and shirts of woven fabric in respect of imports from India and Hong Kong; and women's, girls and infants' coats of woven fabric in respect of imports from Hong Kong. How many newspapers printed this in full? Cut-backs are being extended constantly. I feel that the textile industry as a whole will soon start to feel the effects of various items being brought into the country under an import quota system. 
In Launceston there are four or five big textile mills. Last week, when the Minister announced restructuring assistance, the people in Launceston spat in his face. I am absolutely ashamed of the leaders of the textile industry in Launceston. After the Minister announced last week that the Government would help they issued Press statements downgrading the Government, criticising the Government and in effect throwing the assistance out of the window. This is the way the Government is being treated all around the country. If it tries to help any section of industry where does it get? It does not get any thanks. It gets kicked to death for trying to help people. When the Government tries to assist industries which have been screaming for months and months a thousand people in Launceston have been put out of work. 
Coming back to the quota, I feel that the downturn has been arrested even in Launceston, but the textile industry has to get back to a healthier economic state. It may never fully regain its previous status because of the various changes that it has had to make. I feel that the import quota system should be examined further in respect of the items affecting the industries in Tasmania and in Victoria where the situation at Wangaratta is of concern to the honourable member for Indi. I believe that the 2 Ministers concerned have started to stop the rot. They have started to stop the downturn becoming disastrous, and now it is up to the textile industry, if it is dinkum, to co-operate to the best of its ability to re-employ some of the men it has put out of work. One of its excuses for not doing so is that the retrenched employees will not come back because they are now getting paid in unemployment benefits what they were earning in the industry at the time when they left. 
Yes, but this is not the law of the Medes and Persians. Surely the situation can be altered if we are prepared to assist financially to the extent of millions of dollars to enable the industry to get its men back into employment. I think it is a pretty poor excuse that the industry puts up. 
Finally on the overseas trade issue I congratulate the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Government for increasing our overseas trade in all fields and extending it into all corners of the earth. One of the finest records of this Government so far, for which it does not get any credit, is the way it has extended markets for our rural products, particularly in China and other parts of the world. 
I have got woollen socks on. The 2 Ministers to whom I have referred tonight deserve congratulations for the way they have dealt with their difficult portfolios at a difficult dme in history. I particularly congratulate the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Inflation affects all countries. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the Treasurer recall the representations I made to him last month following an approach to him by the Minister for Agriculture seeking the establishment of a fisheries development loan fund of between $2m and $3m initially within the Department of Agriculture? Is the Treasurer in a position to state the result of his examination of this suggestion, which is designed to give urgently needed financial assistance to fishermen and fishing boat builders in order that our fishing industry can be upgraded by the purchase of more modern vessels and equipment, thus enabling our fishing industry to, among other things, compete with foreign fishing fleets around Australia's coastline? 
It is certainly most encouraging to have an Opposition supporting a rural measure introduced by a Labor government. After all the months and months of bashings we have received from it, the criticisms and the misrepresentations of our rural policy, it is good that at last we are on the same railway line and agreeing to a measure of this nature. Both the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  have been 95 per cent in support of this measure. 
Yes, we actually are coming up to date. It was the attitude of the dairy farmers at the last election which hit the Government the hardest because the dairy farmers responded very emotionally to the news that the subsidy was to be phased out over 2 years, which would take it to the end of 1975. 1 was against a 2-year phase-out. I thought it should have been a 4-year phase-out, as did most of the members of the Government Members Resources Committee. The' Minister too wanted a 4-year phase-out but the Cabinet decided on a period of 2 years, and the industry was very upset at the time of the last election. I hope that as a result of this measure we will restore the confidence of the butterfat producers particularly, within the dairy industry, because they are the hardest hit of all. 
The honourable member for Angas criticised the early introduction of this measure but the late arrival of it in the House. The reason for that is that this is a consolidation measure consolidating 2 other marginal dairy farm schemes that were operating earlier this year. On 9 May, during the election campaign, the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  spelt out the details of the free of interest loan to the dairy industry and it has taken quite a time to get it into legislative form because there is a tremendous amount of detail required in spelling out the principles.  Mr Earl  Hoffman, of the Australian Department of Agriculture, is the key man administering this scheme at departmental level. He is a wonderful chap, tremendously knowledgeable, easy to talk to, and I have received a lot of help from him in the last 4 months as I have answered questions from dairy farmers in my electorate. I pay a tribute to Earl Hoffman for the tremendous amount of work he has done on this measure, dotting the i's and crossing the t'S and so on in this legislation. 
This Bill embraces the most comprehensive and the most effective assistance to any rural industry in recent times, and with the phase-out of the dairy subsidy at the end of 1975 this level of assistance is wholly warranted. The industry deserves it; the industry needs it. 
The butterfat producers are the lowest paid of all primary producers. This segment of the industry is almost completely tied to the dairy factories, and the previous  speaker  spent quite a lot of time discussing this aspect. Prices paid for butterfat run the gauntlet of the factory cost and profit structure and of the operation of the equalisation system. Butterfat prices have risen only marginally over the last 15 years. In fact, the prices being received in 1974 are very similar to the prices the butterfat producers received 20 years ago in 1954, and this is not good enough when their costs have gone up by 100 per cent in that period. That is why I am very concerned about the butterfat producers. They are the depressed section of the dairy industry. They work probably the hardest too, and they deserve a better go than they have been getting. The dairy assistance plan aims at lifting the butterfat producer out of stagnation and giving him an interest free loan whereby he will be able to purchase a suitable vat to enable him to go into bulk or whole milk production and thus receive a higher price for his product. Ancillary expenditure is also on the interest-free basis. The fact is that the Bill is timed perfectly for this operation. I envisage a very big decline in butterfat production in the next 2 years and a very large increase in bulk milk supplies. One might ask: Is this possible? Can the factory side of the industry, the manufacturing side, handle the big increase in bulk milk that will be pouring into factories? The interesting point about this is that in the last few years there has been a great increase in demand in Asia and in other countries for the by-products of milk. Each year this demand is growing and we need more and more bulk milk to supply the by-products section of our manufacturing industry. I feel that it will be no trouble at all in disposing of the bulk milk production which the dairy farmers will switch to when they accept the industry 's free loan system to switch over. 
-Yes, they are getting an excellent price for their pigs at present. 
I have had many inquiries about this plan from dairymen anxious to accept the interest free loan system. The dairy industry has suffered bigger setbacks over the past 10 years than any other Australian industry. More than 28,000 dairymen have left this industry in the past 10 years. This is in spite of the dairy subsidy of $27m which the Federal Government has been paying for many, many years. 
An amount of $27m a year has been paid by way of subsidy. Yet in spite of that 28,000 men have left the industry. This plan is designed to pour in assistance at the point of greatest need whereas the subsidy system meant that in many cases the dairymen who did not need assistance received the subsidy. Anyway, 67 per cent of it was going to Victoria. The dairymen in that State were lucky in that respect. 
I am not against the subsidy being paid where it is needed most but it should not be paid to men who do not need it. The scheme that is before us in this measure will provide a broadening of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme into a more comprehensive dairy adjustment scheme- a $28m scheme, in fact; Interest free loans will be made available to suppliers to change over to refrigerated bulk milk delivery with concurrent assistance as necessary to factories. It also provides for relocation assistance to displaced dairy farmers and dairy farm workers. Further, it provides for interest free loans to be made available to all of those who have switched over to vats since 23 July 1973. 
Some specific measures contained in the program are the inclusion of liquid milk suppliers; direct conveyancing in the amalgamation of land; write-off of redundant assets on home property- this was previously confined to acquired property; and interest free loans for changeover to refrigerated bulk milk delivery with repayment periods being flexible to meet individual circumstances. There is no other industry in Australia receiving interest free loans. I hope that the dairy industry appreciates this point. Each individual dairyman can arrange with the State authority how much he pays back and over what period payments will be made. These arrangements are flexible. Another interesting feature about the program is that a dairy farmer is to be recompensed for any payment which is outstanding on a vat that he has purchased. Also, the interest that he has paid on his vat to his local bank will be met by the Government. This is a very important aspect of the scheme. If a dairyman bought a vat in 
January this year for $4,500, which is the average price paid for these very special vats, and he has paid $500 off the capital and $300 in interest to his local bank, under the scheme he will receive back the amount paid in interest and will pay off the remainder of his loan interest free. This part of the program is retrospective to July 1973. It is a most generous scheme and it means that hundreds of men who switched over in the last 16 months will be eligible for assistance. 
The program also proposes that assistance be given to develop uneconomic dairy farms into economic units other than by whole-farm build up, that is, by paddock purchases or by finance to clear land, improve pastures, water supply and so on. It provides for diversification out of dairying where appropriate, by loans for land purchase, property development, livestock and equipment, and by grants for the write-off of redundant dairy bails and plant. It provides for finance for built up producers to develop more readily the full potential of the enlarged property, loans for property development, purchase of livestock and equipment and so on. It also provides for the relocation assistance for displaced dairy farmers and help to dairy farmers to cope with the increase in bulk milk intake. 
The local State reconstruction committees will have a big job to do because every individual case, of course, will be dealt with individually. The scheme does not have a means test. As long as the farm is viable and it is going well there will be no question about its being assisted. If it is discovered that the farm might last only 6 months I doubt whether the farm would get assistance. But no strict means test will apply to the interest free loan or even to the other loans that are mentioned in the legislation. It is sufficient that a farm is a going concern. In such a case the dairy farmer will get his loan interest free. The State authority in Tasmania that has been selected to handle the scheme is the Agricultural Bank in Hobart, the manager of which is  Mr Peter  Rowland who is also in charge of several other rural schemes introduced by the Federal Government. He is an expert in this field and a good man for the job. 
Yes, excellent. Finally, I want to mention some of the positive sides of our rural program of which the program now before us is a part. In the last Budget, for instance, we outlaid $488m-$150m more than the last LiberalCountry Party Government did, and a . net increase of $88m over the 1973-74 Budget provision. An amount of $56m has been allocated for an animal health laboratory in Geelong; $28m is to be made available to the dairy reconstruction scheme outlined in this legislation; $40m is being spent in the first advance on wheat $28m is being spent on rural reconstruction overall; $45 m is being spent on the National Disaster Fund; $ 11.5m is being spent this year on the isolated children's allowance throughout country districts; $21m is being allocated this year to rural universities- it was only $6m in 1972; $47m is being allocated this year to colleges of advanced education in rural areas- it was only $ 12m in 1972; and $880m or 46 per cent of our expenditure on social security payments goes to rural districts. The 12 per cent devaluation will benefit our primary producers by approximately $200m a year. Our tax cuts for people paying tax on income below $10,000 a year will assist many farmers. Mortgage interest payments as tax deductions will also assist. The guaranteed floor price of 250 cents a kilo on 21 micro wool with the Australian Government underwriting the wool industry by $300m because the private banking system could not do it is another important feature of our rural work. We are also underwriting the wheat industry to the tune of $70m a year, with a first advance going up to $1.50. 
It is all right, Stephen; I am just about finished. I commend this scheme to the country and to the dairy farmers of Australia as a genuine attempt by this Government to correct the problems of a very wonderful industry. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture aware that the price of feed wheat at least in Tasmania rose yesterday from $7 1 a tonne to $83.40 a tonne- a 1 7.3 per cent increase for the poultry industry? As the poultry industry uses 80 per cent wheat in its feeding program and as this increase could force many small producers out of business, will the Minister consider some form of Commonwealth assistance including the setting up urgently of a Commonwealth poultry industry stabilisation fund to give some security to this turbulent industry? 
What pettifogging suggestions we have heard from the Opposition over this issue. A panel of names of wool growers will be submitted to the Minister. 
Who is making this speech? To think that a Federal Minister would go outside a panel for which he has asked is utterly ridiculous. He will be doing his best for the industry. The industry will supply him with X number of names of good men, true men, all wool growers themselves from around Australia. 
That is a ridiculous suggestion. He will select someone from the panel of names. This legislation makes no provision for the Minister to select as members of the Corporation persons outside that panel. It is ridiculous to talk about him knocking the panel over and not selecting someone from it. I am sure this is just a stalling action by the Opposition. It is incredible the number of proposals the Government puts forward which the Opposition tries to knock over. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who is trying to interject, opposite thinks he knows everything about everything. That is his trouble. Members of the Australian Country Party think they are the Encyclopaedia Britannica about wool growing, dairying, wheat growing and apple growing. We also have studied these matters. We also have been growers, and we are not idiots all the time. I think this legislation is sensible. It is bringing the whole concept of the Corporation's work up to date. This provision seeks to put on the board of the Corporation an expert in marketing. Anybody who disagrees this proposal is just bloodyminded. 
-I rise briefly to reply to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who has just resumed his seat. He was the Minister involved in the negotiations which were mentioned by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  The honourable member for Gippsland is probably more aware of the story than anyone else about the 'Straitsman' and the ships prior to the 'Straitsman' and the development of the port at Grassy which was so important for the operations of Houfe 's ships, particularly the 'Straitsman'. To the Government's credit at that time $677,000 was granted as a non-repayable grant, plus $677,000 as a loan. But the non-repayable grant segment of this assistance from the then Commonwealth Government was given on condition that when the 'Straitsman' commenced operations the King Island shipping subsidy would end. I cannot figure the logic behind that decision. It must have been a great disappointment to Bob Houfe. After all, all that the previous Government did for him was to have a port built- a proper entrance for his ships- but that did not help him at all financially. He did not get one cent out of that deal. It only made it possible for his ship to run into the port. When the previous Government removed the subsidy that meant, of course, that Captain Houfe was operating entirely on his own. 
For the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  to get up in this place today as the new spokesman for Tasmania and talk about these things is rather amusing. After all, no honourable members on that side of the House can teach the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  anything about shipping or King Island. He has represented it since 1 958 in a fantastically efficient way. There has not been a problem on the island that the honourable member for Braddon has not understood from top to bottom. He has spent hundreds of hours in interviews and deputations, particularly in the days when the previous Government was in office. He has always battled for King Island. I am disappointed at the way the people of King Island treated him at the last election. He has done a lot of work for that island. I ought to know something about it because my wife came from that Island. I lived there for 2 years- from 1938 to 1940. The honourable member for Wentworth does not even know where King Island is. He has got to look at the map to find out where King Island is. Yet he is the new Opposition spokesman on Tasmania. What utter confounded impudence. What impudence this is on the part of the Opposition to set up a member from Sydney as the spokesman for King Island and Tasmania. If the Tasmanian people fall for this humbug they are more easily duped than I would have thought. All these people have been hoodwinked lately by the Opposition into believing that the Opposition has the answers for this State. I have been fighting for Tasmania for 28 years. I have given thousands of hours to it- almost the whole of my political life. For newcomers and humbugs to come into this place and tell me how to represent Tasmania is outrageous impudence. I am utterly disgusted at the Leader of the Opposition and the attitude he is adopting towards Tasmanian members of this Parliament. 
I want to make it quite clear that the honourable member for Braddon has worked his eyeballs out for King Island. In the days when the honourable member for Gippsland was the Minister we had deputations to him. I ask honourable members to listen to this: The previous Government stopped the subsidy to King Island. They left  Mr Houfe  absolutely 'subsidyless'- if one can use that word. They left him battling without any assistance at all in his operations. Later, when the 'Straitsman' went bad financially for reasons outside Bob Houfe 's controlafter only 7 weeks of operation- the previous Government offered no help to him at all. I should like to tell the honourable member for Wentworth that we Tasmanians had meetings here in the Minister's office, trying to get assistance for the 'Straitsman' and each time the honourable member for Gippsland came up with a negative answer. After the meetings with us the former Minister- when the official receiver moved in on the 'Straitsman' and on Bob Houfe- his Government refused to give any assistance at all. They left King Island for dead at that time. 
Honourable members opposite should not get up in this Parliament and tell us what has happened to King Island. We know the history only too well. This new Government now is offering this loan to Tasmania- a loan for 15 years repayable at the bond rate- to pay for the 'Straitsman' so that the reconstructed vessel, after the accident in Melbourne - 
It is about 8, 9, or 10 per cent at the moment. 
I am not very happy about the bond rate being the interest rate. But that is what it is fixed at at the moment. We at least made it possible for the Tasmanian Government to own the 'Straitsman'. We are grateful to the Minister for what he has done to help this situation on King Island. The honourable member for Braddon deserves to be congratulated for what he has done for this island. I hope that the people of King Island will show more appreciation for what he has done at the next election than they did at the last. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. It deals with the beef crisis. Will the Minister examine  the possibility of setting up long term credit facilities for countries which find it difficult to finance imports of beef from Australia, such as Italy and underdeveloped countries? Is the Minister aware that long term credit facilities are made available already to several countries in respect of wheat? As a further method of helping our beef industry, has the Government investigated the suggestion that we are able to can beef for export to the Middle East and other tropical countries? 
-Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of a special crisis among woodchip loggers and bushmen in Tasmania in that many loggers with costly trucks and equipment worth from $50,000 to $150,000 have become unemployed because the 3 woodchip companies in Tasmania have had their exports to Japan drastically reduced by the Japanese paper companies? Is he aware also that at least one of the woodchip companies in the north pressured many of these men into this expensive business even as late as October to December last year, that the loggers are paying from $700 to $ 1 ,000 a month to finance companies and that the huge log trucks are of little use anywhere else without costly alterations? Will the Minister treat this crisis as urgent and make one of his key employment officers available at a log haulers association meeting at Launceston next Sunday? Because this woodchip crisis is unique to Tasmania can he make special arrangements to help these out of work hauliers to stay solvent? 
It is incredible that one should hear honourable members opposite criticising the land settlement scheme when they were in Government for 23 years. Both the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and I, together with other Labor members, over the years were members of deputations to Ministers of previous governments seeking the alleviation of some of the problems of the soldier settlers. For honourable members opposite to stand up now as though they have the answer to everything, as they are doing in respect of all legislation, is a good illustration of sheer humbug. 
The honourable member for Angas is one of the genuine members in this House. He is interested in soldier settlement and he is very deeply concerned with the problem. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  has soldier settlers in his electorate also. But for honourable members opposite to try to blame this Government, which has been in office for only 2 years, for what has happened to soldier settlers over 20-odd years is just unfair, unreasonable and completely wrong. We realise that many of the problems of soldier settlers stem from the fact that their properties are too small for them to make a proper living. The properties on King Island are an illustration of that. Flinders Island, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  also to some extent falls into that category. The honourable member for Braddon, whose electorate takes in King Island, has worked tirelessly over many years and has led powerful deputations to Canberra to try to help the soldier settlers. Some of the mistakes were made in the early days of the scheme, and unfortunately those mistakes have been allowed to continue on down through the years. The problems got so big that no one in the previous Government was game to have a go at changing some of the conditions which have applied to the scheme since its early days. 
In which you would effect change? 
Yet the honourable member for Barker is saying that they are still walking off their farms. 
Yes, of course they were walking off their farms when honourable members opposite were in Government. That is what I said. Hundreds of farmers walked off their farms during that period, in spite of the marvellous schemes that the honourable member puts up today. Why did not the honourable member convince his Party when it was in Government that his suggestions had some viability? That is the point. While I am on my feet 1 want to answer the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  who attacked me this afternoon in my absence. I would like him to say to me personally outside the House what he said a while ago. I want to correct what he said on the matter of the superphosphate subsidy, for instance. I have been fighting for a superphosphate subsidy for ten or eleven months. 
I did not vote against anything concerned with providing a superphosphate bounty. The scheme which I have proposed is now before the Industries Assistance Commission for consideration. I have suggested that we incorporate the New Zealand concept, which operated from June 1973 to July 1974 and which provides for the subsidy to be paid up to a certain tonnage. Their subsidy was paid for 30 tons. This scheme has been discussed by the Government's rural committee and accepted by it. The matter has been taken to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I know. I was against the subsidy being taken off. I said so openly in the Press and at meetings. I have been criticised by certain people here because I said so. 
You had better get on your right side. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the recent House of Lords rape decision which gained massive publicity around the world? Does the decision have any application in Australia and does the Government propose to take any action as a result of the decision? In view of the increasing incidence of rape crimes, Australians are deeply concerned in legislation dealing with the matter. 
-That was the most incredible utterance made among so many incredible utterances. How the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  ever became Opposition Whip I do not know. They must have elected him in the dark when they were very much - 
Yes. The subject of the debate is the redistribution of Tasmania into electoral divisions. All the poppycock talked by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bendigo, had no reference to this matter. Most of it was completely untrue. The inferences were wild and woolly. If the honourable member talks that sort of material in his electorate he will not be here next time. He must have a few fairminded people left in Bendigo. The reflections which he passed on the Commissioners and on the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  were outrageous. If he made them outside the Parliament there would be a definite case for libel. He suggested that the Minister had gerrymandered seats throughout Australia. That is an outrageous lie in any circumstances. The Commissioners are all neutral men. To suggest that a Minister should go around telling the Commissioners what they should do in each electorate and what boundary changes they should make is the depth of ignorance. 
-I have my facts right. I shall remember what the honourable member has said, whatever he tries to explain afterwards. If he said outside what he has said here about the Commissioners' involvement, they could have him up for libel. There is too much loose talk in the Parliament about a gerrymander of federal electorates. Honourable members may talk about it in State parliaments if they like, but not in the Federal Parliament. I have been here a lot longer than the honourable member and through many redistributions. To my knowledge there has been no gerrymander in the years that I have been here, and that includes the time of Liberal governments as well. What utter humbug the honourable member talks. 
The Australian constitutional fathers were very kind to Tasmania. In section 26 of the Constitution dated 1901 we read: 
Provided that if Western Australia is an Original State - 
Western Australia finally came inthe  number shall be as follows -  This is for the House of RepresentativesNew  South Wales, 26; Victoria, 23; Queensland, 9; South Australia, 7; Western Australia, 3; Tasmania, S. 
On all considerations at that time Tasmania should not have had 5 electorates. It would have been entitled to three at the most at that time. But the constitutional fathers, looking into the future, decided that Tasmania should have 5 electorates. This is something for which we have been criticised time and time again through the years by Opposition spokesmen. It is not our fault that we have 5 seats for Tasmania or that we had five at the beginning in 1901. That was a decision of the constitutional fathers. They dealt with Tasmania generously. 
At that time the population of Tasmania would have been about 140 000 with an average elector enrolment of 16 000. Of course, there was a much higher average at the time in the mainland electorates. The number of electors enrolled in Tasmania in 1903 were: Bass, 17 571; Franklin, 16 261; Denison, 16 607; Darwin, as it was then known but now Braddon, 16 111; Wilmot, 15 718. That is a total of 82 268 electors enrolled in Tasmania in 1903 when the population was about 140 000. To criticise the Tasmanian situation in this debate and in any other debate on electoral matters is to criticise the constitutional fathers. Why, 74 years later, we still have 5 electorates! I repeat that in 1903 the 5 electorates had 82 268 electors and Tasmania had a population of approximately 140 000. Today Tasmania still has 5 electorates. They will have an enrolment of 245 991 after this redistribution and the population of the State will be about 400 000. It has taken 72 years for Tasmanian enrolments to grow from 82 268 in 1903 to 245 991 at this time. My prophecy is that the population of Tasmania will have to reach 550 000 before Tasmania is entitled to a sixth electorate. It will be at least 2020 AD before this population level is reached in Tasmania. That will be at least another 45 years. This means that Tasmania, starting with 5 electorates in 1901, still has 5 electorates now and will have 5 electorates 120 years later. They are the facts of the situation. 
I do not think that the proposed redistribution is really justified in Tasmania on this occasion. I must be quite honest about that. In December 1974, 45 846 electors were enrolled in the electorate of Bass, which had the lowest enrolment, and 52 206 in the electorate of Braddon, which had the highest enrolment. This is a difference of 6360. That is only a marginal difference between 5 electorates. The proposed redistribution changes will mean that 3392 electors will be taken out of Wilmot and put into Bass. This will reduce Wilmot to the seat with the smallest number of electors, namely, 46 148 electors. That is one point which could justify the redistribution of electors between Wilmot and Bass. Bass had the lowest number of electors in the previous set-up. The only sensible way Bass can be increased- a very remarkable method which I will mention in a minute was knocked overboardis at the expense of Wilmot. The Bass electorate has been jammed into the north-east corner of Tasmania and includes Flinders Island. It has been ably represented by the Minister for 
Defence  (Mr Barnard)  since 1954. The electorate of Braddon has been ably represented by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  since 1958. 
The Commissioners felt that the increase in population in Bass was fairly marginal and they had to take electors out of Wilmot. They took nearly 3500 electors from around the city of Launceston to build up the numbers. The population in the electorate of Bass is increasing at a much faster rate than the population of Wilmot is. What staggers me about the redistribution proposals in respect of Bass and Wilmot is that there is little scope for expansion in the electorate of Wilmot. The only expansion that will take place will be at Bridgewater, where there is a new housing division, and East Devonport which is connected with the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. They are the only 2 areas in which it is likely that the population in Wilmot will increase in the future. The numbers are decreasing in country districts. My electorate is a rural electorate, with 20 different types of agriculture. The number of people in the country part of my electorate is declining slowly, as is happening in other country areas, with people moving into the cities. The flow of people to the cities will counter any increases in population which may arise from the new housing developments that I have mentioned at Bridgewater and East Devonport. I think it will be years before the Wilmot electorate will have 50 000 electors. 
I express my grave doubts here about the redistribution. The Distribution Commissioners have tried to remedy some loss to Bass by giving Wilmot more than 800 electors from the electorate of the honourable member for Braddon in the north-western corner of this scrambling electorate which takes in half of Tasmania and occupies more than 13 000 square miles. 
The other way the Distribution Commissioners tried to help the electorate of Bass was to take King Island off the honourable member for Braddon. I will not mention the reaction of the honourable member for Braddon to this proposal. It was quite ridiculous because it would have meant that the honourable member for Bass would have had to fly to the north-west of Bass Strait and visit King Island from Launceston, which is in his electorate. It was geographically an outrageous suggestion. That proposition was finally rejected after representations were made to the Distribution Commissioners. King Island remains in the electorate of Braddon, where it should be, and Flinders Island remains in the electorate of Bass, where it should be. The 
Liberal Party wrote to the Commissioners about the electorate of Wilmot and said: 
We cannot see that such a low enrolment can be justified for Wilmot in view of the relatively slow growth rate of that electorate, especially having regard to the new provision in the Act which does not now take into account any disabilities for distance, remoteness or other associated problems of representation. 
I agree with that assessment. I do not know where we will get increased numbers from in the future. However, I feel that the Commissioners did have to do something about the electorate of Bass. They had to take numbers out of the Wilmot electorate and put them into the Bass electorate because Bass cannot get electors from any other electorate. Big housing estates will be set up in the electorate of Bass. Many people from the electorate of Wilmot go to live in Launceston. I help them from time to time to obtain houses in my colleague's electorate after they have spent years in my electorate. The electorate of Bass will definitely increase in numbers much faster than the electorate of Wilmot. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  made a personal attack on the redistribution proposal for Tasmania earlier today. He criticised the smallness of the electorate of Wilmot. He quoted the number of electors in that electorate. The honourable member for Gwydir has 60 000 people in his electorate. That is his bad luck; it happened because he was born in New South Wales. If he had been born somewhere else he might have a smaller electorate. He has to take what the Distributions Commissioners have given him. That is the rule that was passed through the House at the Joint Sitting. The honourable member for Gwydir screams, but what about the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who has the largest electorate in the world?  His  electorate covers 980 000 square miles. 
Yes, but to build up the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie to 10 per cent of the quota, one electorate in Western Australia would have to be wiped out. In his criticism, the honourable member for Gwydir forgets that Tasmania, which is a small area, has a compact population. The honourable member for Gwydir can go 50 miles in his electorate without meeting anybody. If he goes 50 miles in my electorate he would travel through 5 towns. That is the difference. This is my answer to the criticisms made by the honourable member for Gwydir. My electorate, in area, is only 13 000 square miles. The honourable member for Gwydir has many thousands of square miles in his electorate. But what about the number of people in the electorate? Fencing posts do not vote, trees do not vote, bridges do not vote and roads do not vote. 
They do not vote down our way. In the electorate of Wilmot there are 40 towns with a population of more than 500 people and there are 70 towns with a population of less than 500 people. Until recently there were 176 polling boths in the electorate of Wilmot- the fourth largest number of booths in the 127 electorates. The electorate of Wilmot and the electorate of Braddon are closely populated electorates. The situation in the electorate of Braddon is the same as in Wilmot. I do not care how large an electorate is; I am concerned about the number of people in the electorate and where they are situated. Though there are only 46 000 electors in my electorate they are evenly distributed and I have fewer miles to cover between the towns. On the mainland, of course, there are big distances between each town. 
In view of the subversive, irresponsible and politically motivated statements about Australia's defence program by armchair strategists among the Opposition and their cohorts around Australia, will the Minister for Defence give figures on the preparedness of Australia's defence forces today as compared with the last year of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government, 1971-72? 

 Mr BARNARD The state of the permanent defence force is that the current strength is higher today than it was at the height of the Vietnam conflict. We now have a total of 69 037 volunteer troops compared with 68 467 in March of 1972. 1 am referring to volunteer strength. Without national service, the best the previous Government could muster was a total volunteer force of 54 700 in June 1965. Today, under this Government, the volunteer strength is 26 per cent higher. The honourable member for Wilmot asked for the current volunteer strength. The current volunteer strength of the individual services is: Navy 16 211; Army 31 336; and the Air Force 21 490. What one should point out for the benefit of the strategists from the other side is that they should well remember that back in 1972 they were telling the people of Australia that we would not be able to raise an all volunteer army in this country, that we had to rely on conscription. As I have said, the strength of the volunteer forces today is higher than it was under the previous Government back in 1 972. 
Only a short time ago- in fact, only a few days ago- the right honourable member for Higgins made a very precise and, I think, clear statement -and one would assume he was speaking with some authority on behalf of the Opposition- that conscription should be reintroduced. Not only did he suggest that conscription should be reintroduced but he would go back to the most divisive issue that this country has ever had, that is, a selective form of conscription which the Opposition used between 1965 and 1972 to provide a proportion of the forces which were committed to Vietnam. I do not believe that Australians want that kind of force in this country. The right honourable member for Higgins was supported at a symposium which I addressed at Cooma slightly more than a week ago by the honourable member for Riverina. The honourable member for Riverina did not go quite so far in his remarks. He said that he believed there ought to be a debate in this Parliament on 2 aspects of defence- firstly conscription and secondly nuclear weapons. I would assume that if the honourable member for Riverina wants a debate on conscription, then obviously it would be intended to support the reintroduction of conscription. That is the only interpretation that one could place upon his remarks. He was on that occasion representing the shadow minister for defence who had been invited to attend the symposium. Instead of being represented at that allimportant symposium which provided an opportunity for the Opposition to debate with me on the platform - 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What progress has been made by Broken Hill South Pty Ltd in respect of the mining of phosphate rock in Queensland? What reserves of phosphate rock have been determined by survey and testing in this area? What effect upon local fertiliser companies could eventuate in respect of price and quantity as a result of the opening up of these large deposits? 
-The Opposition takes a very strange attitude to this Bill, stranger than most of its attitudes which are straight out opposition to legislation which we put to this Parliament. I think there is a fair amount of politics intermingled with its attitude or motivating its attitude to this Bill. After all, Tasmania will get approximately $80m over the next 10 years under this agreement. No Opposition would want to go to Tasmania at election time and say that it opposed the Bill in this Parliament. That would be disastrous for the Opposition. So apart from the beginning and the ending, we get a highly critical and analytical speech, by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I would expect it from him. He said: 'We will support the Bill. We see no real reason to oppose it', yet he spent 20 minutes telling us how crook it is. I cannot really understand the Opposition's attitude. He talked about the very important contribution to the debate in the Tasmanian House of Assembly last week by  Mr Bingham,  the Leader of the Opposition in that State.  Mr Bingham  criticised the relative assistance to South Australia and to Tasmania. But he forgot to tell the Tasmanians- and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who is an ex-Minister for Shipping and Transport this afternoon forgot to tell us- that there is a vast difference between the railway systems of South Australia and Tasmania. There is the width of the tracks, for a start. Tasmania has a narrow gauge railway of 3 feet 6 inches; South Australia has the standard gauge and the 5 feet 3 inches gauge. Think of the extra cost of track laying and the capital investment in track laying alone. Then there is the size of the rolling stock travelling on those 2 systems, one a narrow line and one a broader line. Then there is the work force. South Australia has very many more railway workers than Tasmania has. So it is incredible to suggest that Tasmania is not getting a fair deal under this Bill. The comparison with South Australia is completely and utterly irrelevant. 
The Tasmanian Government has approved of the measure. It has been passed by the House of Assembly and is now anchored in the Legislative Council which, as the honourable member for Wentworth rightly remarked a moment ago, is asking for an undertaking before it will pass it. Do honourable members know the undertaking for which it is asking? It is this: That there be written into the agreement the power for the Tasmanian Government to take back the railways in the State at some distant date. That must be the most laughable amendment ever suggested by an upper House. What State would want its railways back after handing them over lock, stock, barrel and debts to an Australian government? All those in a State who wanted the railways back in those circumstances would need to be mentally examined, from the Premier down. That request by the Legislative Council is utterly ridiculous. Surely it is only a delaying tactic. 
Let me come back to the actual losses, etc., that Tasmania has been suffering. I shall quote official figures. In 1973-74 the railway losses growth rate in Tasmania was 27 per cent; but the financial assistance grant increased in that year by only 10 per cent. So, each year Tasmania's railways have been going backwards financially. Over the 3 financial years to 1973-74 the losses on our railways reached 67 per cent; the financial assistance granted in that time reached 35 per cent. So, each year Tasmania has been getting further behind in its financial status in respect of its railways. In other words, the losses were increasing at a more rapid rate than was the financial assistance that Tasmania was receiving. So Tasmania was reaching an impasse. How could it continue to finance these losses on its railways? The Commonwealth offer, in my opinion, has come at a most opportune moment for Tasmania. Any Tasmanian who really opposes this scheme surely must have a strange philosophy. The Commonwealth proposes to take over everything- the rolling stock, the buildings, the land, the equipment, the superannuation schemes, the protection for the workers in the Tasmanian Railways, the debts which are considerable and the losses which have been enormous. What State in its right mind would refuse such an offer? I am only hoping that in the next week or two the Legislative Council will be convinced to support the Tasmanian Bill so that the agreement can become law in Tasmania and will be able to begin to operate from 1 July. 
It has been suggested that we are going to nationalise State transport and take over the road transport services that feed the railways, and others as well. As far as I know there is no truth in this suggestion. I would be against the Commonwealth taking over all road services. I believe the private operator has a part to play in the internal transport system in my State as much as in any other State. I have no desire to see all road transport taken over by the Australian Government or State governments. What this really means is that we will co-ordinate State and Federal road matters and where the Tasmanian Government operates road services at the moment to feed our railways, these services will be co-ordinated with the Australian National Line in a road-sea transport system. 
The Tasmanian Government Railways was the pioneer in Australia of the container system when it forwarded farm produce and other goods from our Tasmanian factories by container to the ports and across to the mainland on ferries and then by rail to Sydney. I must congratulate  Mr Collins  who was the brain behind this move a few years ago. He revolutionised the Tasmanian railway system, connecting it with the mainland railway system by the use of ferries. It brought about the cheaper transport of goods to Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, a more regular transport service to those centres and a far more businesslike transport system. 
Honourable members opposite cry about socialism and centralism but the railways have always been a socialist enterprise except for a small railway on the west coast of Tasmania owned by the Emu Bay Railway Co. Ltd of Burnie. For over a century all railways have been government owned. I know that a few privately owned railways started in Australia way back in the middle of the last century but they did not last very long and later the State governments took them over. So today, apart from the Emu Bay Railway, the Tasmanian railway system is a socialist railway system and the governments of all States, no matter what size or political colour, have agreed to the railways being in government hands. 
They are socialised now. 
They are socialised now and the Liberal governments of the States through the years have agreed to it and have poured money into the systems. They tried to meet the losses but they could not. 
We are going to do nothing of the sort. They are a State socialised enterprise. Liberals in Tasmania for many years have condemned the railways' indebtedness, the burden of interest payments they are forced to make, unsafe tracks and out-of-date rolling stock. What humbug it is now to fight against a transfer to the Australian Government. There is criticism that railway workers in Tasmania will be worse off under this proposed scheme. A study of the Bill's superannuation clauses completely torpedoes this assumption. Railways workers in Tasmania, in conjunction with the Australian Railways Unions have consulted with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on this issue and they are completely satisfied that the conditions on which the Australian Government takes over the railways will not jeopardise their position at all. 
In total and over the long term it will probably improve the conditions of railway workers throughout Tasmania. The State will be millions of dollars better off each year as a result of this transfer. The losses which I mentioned before will be absorbed by the Australian Government so the State will not have those to worry about. It could possibly be $3m a year better off in total with the Australian Government taking over the railways- perhaps it would be more than thatand the State will also be better off because a tool annexe is to be built in the next 10 years on land outside the railway area of Launceston.There will be new rolling stock and an upgrading of the tracks which in some areas are in a bad way. The debt burden will be lifted from the Tasmanian Government. A nominee from the Tasmanian transport system will be appointed as a 5-year term commissioner to the Australian National Railways Commission. He will have his say in all decision making, as will the nominees from the other States who are appointed to the Commission. A nominee from Tasmania will be appointed as a part-time member of the Australian National Line. This is being done because of the Australian Government's determination to co-ordinate rail and sea transport more effectively for our State. 
I put forward the fond hope that at some time in the future- it might not be in my time- some portion of the Tasmanian railway system will be electrified. Our hydro-electric system provides us with the cheapest electric power in Australia. I know that initially the hydro-electric rail system is expensive, but in the long term it is cheaper and safer to run than diesel engines. All States have to import diesel fuel to run their diesel engines, but we generate our own hydro-electric power in Tasmania. Why could not the Hobart suburban rail system or the Launceston to Bell Bay section of the railways be electrified in the future? Tasmania is coming out of this deal probably better than South Australia, because the South Australian railways are in a much better condition in every respect than the Tasmanian railways are. 
When one considers the losses to which I have referred, the Tasmanian railways could be described as the Minister for Transport has just described them. 
Yes. Earlier in my speech I mentioned that in 10 years it will cost $80m to upgrade the Tasmanian railways. The 27 or 28 miles of the new Bell Bay section of the railways have been built during the last 5 years. The Liberal Government in Tasmania set the ball rolling for this section and estimated the cost at $4m. The section cost $30m before it was opened. Tasmania had to meet that cost. That extra cost is included in the takeover bid by the Australian Government. So Tasmania is very fortunate that the costs of that section of the Bell Bay line will not run on into the future. I believe that what is proposed in the Bill will in the long term increase Tasmania's capacity to earn money through the railways. I believe that upgrading the railways by providing better tracks and better rolling stock will contribute towards confidence in the State. People will use our railways more and more and this will increase the total income from our railways and so help to pay off the debt in the long term. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Cabinet have before it last week the Industries Assistance Commission interim report recommending restoration of the superphosphate subsidy? Was a decision made by Cabinet for or against that recommendation, or did Cabinet refer the question to the Government Resources Committee? If the latter is so, were not Press reports that Cabinet had rejected the recommendation wholly, utterly and mischievously false? 
-What a pity that such an excellent member of Parliament as the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  should deliver such a shocking, negative speech as he gave this afternoon.  His  speech was full of negativism, criticism and knockerism the like of which we are hearing all over the country ad nauseam night after night, day after day. In spite of everything the Opposition has poured out in the Press and over the television and radio in recent months, 85 per cent of the Australian people have never been better off than they are today. This is something that one cannot get through to the people or the critics. The amount of purchasing power in the community today can be illustrated by the fact that savings banks deposits rose by $3 11m in June this year to an all time peak of $ 12,768m, and these deposits are earning very substantial interest. 
According to the Opposition the country has gone bankrupt, but there has never been more money circulating in the country, there has never been more families with 2 motorcars than there are today, there have never been more families with a full range of home appliances than there are today. 
-In the first fortnight in which colour television sets were on sale in Launceston, 10 sets were purchased and every purchaser paid cash. Yet we are hearing all this tripe and talk of gloom day after day from the people all over the country who are trying to convince us that we are living in the worst country in the world. Opposition spokesmen whom we have heard in this debate would make Jeremiah, the prophet of gloom, by contrast appear to be the happiest man in the Old Testament. 
Retail sales have never been healthier. What is all this grizzling, growling and whining by private enterprise? Private enterprise controls the bulk of the Australian economy. It always has done and it always will. This Government has done nothing to stop private enterprise. Look at the number of factories in Australia owned by private enterprise. The number of employees working in those factories is increasing, year by year. Yet we are supposed to be wrecking private enterprise. The old cry that we hear day and night is that business confidence is languishing. This is the cry of people who run private enterprise- people from this heaven-sent sacrosanct private sector. It is essentially a political cry. We are a Labor government and they support the Liberal-Country Party. They are doing their utmost to sabotage the Australian Government. That is what it is all about. So much of this criticism is deliberate sabotage of the Australian Government by private enterprise. Let private enterprise point out any one field in which by government action we have destroyed it or caused it to lose profit apart from sections of the textile industry. The Government has taken no such action in any centre deliberately to try to sabotage private enterprise. The story is completely the reverse. 
The real destroyers of confidence in this country are sections of the media and the Opposition in the Parliament. They have sought to do this by an outrageous exaggeration of the situation, by falsehoods, by misinformation to the public, by wild accusations and by extravagant comment repeated over and over again. The mental outlook of this Opposition is appalling. It is also frightening and dangerous. The Opposition is bereft of vision, new ideas and an ideology. It cannot get above the gutter level of constant nagging criticism of this Government. 
-Well, I am not saying that. Members of the Opposition are a conglomeration of ultra conservatism, blind negativism, subversion and planned sabotage of confidence and hope in this country. One of the reasons we lost the Bass by-election was the constant harping I have been talking about. The lack of confidence in Australia exploded in one electorate at one point of time. It was Goebbels who said: 4 T-1 a lie for long enough and the people will believe it'. That is the soundest philosophy that has ever been stated in the political field. Goebbels found that it worked. He misled the German people for 8 years by adopting that approach. Now it is being done in this country repeatedly by people who want to destroy the Labor Government in Canberra. Those people do not care what statements they make, short of libel, to achieve that end. 
The people of Australia have fallen for the big lie which has been repeated over and over again, night and day, on television, in the Press, in editorials and in letters to the editor by cowards using nom-de-plumes. These scum of the earth who criticise individuals and condemn governments in this way are the biggest cowards in the country. Snipers are the most despised fighters in wars killing from concealed places. To my mind the most despised people in this country today are the people who criticise other individuals and governments from the protection of a nomdeplume. They do not have the guts to tell us who they are. They are the people who are destroying the confidence of Australians in Australia. They are the saboteurs of this country today. They represent a standstill party, which during 23 years in government- I have been in this place for that period- introduced only a handful of new initiatives. I know that only a handful of new initiatives were ever introduced into this Parliament by Menzies and all the rest who followed him. In  2lh  years this Government has put more new initiatives on the statute book than were introduced in 23 years by other governments and Prime Ministers who stood still, who held on to what they had clung to- the status quo. 
-I said that a handful of new initiatives were introduced; I did not say that there were no new initiatives. I have been in this place for a lot longer than the honourable member for Wimmera so I know what I am talking about. 
Members of the Opposition in this place and in the Senate are professional knockers. For  2lA  years they have demonstrated that they are apostles of negativism, destruction and unadulterated conservatism. John Shaw, the  Time  magazine man who is now looking over Australia, says that he knows of no other country in the world where people are so ready to blame the government for their problems. Even the softdrink manufacturers attacked us the other day because not so many people were buying softdrinks. The following comment was made in the newspaper after the John Shaw story: 'God help Gough if our cricketers lose in England'. We are blamed for everything. We are blamed for sciatica, housemaids knee and pains in the neck. They come into this House and in speech after speech they say that we are responsible for everythingthunderstorms, droughts, frosts. Good gracious, it is absolutely dreadful what we have to sit and listen to and read in our newspapers. 
People who go overseas are always glad to return to Australia. No matter what their political colour, when they get back here they say: "Thank God I am back in Australia. It is the best country in the world'. Honourable members opposite should not deny that either. Thousands of people every year come back from holidays in countries where the cost of living is outrageous. The costs are so high overseas that unless one had been warned one could be half way through a holiday and run out of money. Costs over there are great and inflation is running at very high levels. People do not know that they are alive until they go overseas and come back to this country. 
All these so-called Australians we have in Australia today- these so-called patriots- are pulling our country down into the gutter every day of their lives by their statements, their letters to the editor and all the knockers we see on television. These are the saboteurs. Let me say straight out that their tactics are even more diabolical than those of the few communists we have in this country. They are doing more harm to Australia's prestige and its standing and status in the world than the few communists in Australia. That is how serious the situation is. This constant tendency to knock Australia has now become a disease amongst the Opposition parties in this country. 
Yes. They are a lot of good fellows. The new honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  is an excellent fellow and we are mates already. There are more knockers to the acre in this country than there are anywhere else in the world. Editorials, letters to the editor and Opposition propaganda endlessly hammer the theme that Australia has had it, that it is a disaster area, that things have never been worse, that the economy is in a tailspin and that confidence is nil. This is the false picture such extravagant words outline. This theme goes on and on like a long playing record. It is a theme that is deliberate, jaundiced and negative. It does not describe the true position in Australia today. 
I repeat- honourable members opposite may try to disprove it- that 85 per cent of Australians today are better off than they have been in their lives or in the history of this country. The theme I referred to is a political theme. It is a vote catching theme. It is a brainwashing campaign. Those who expound it hope that by constant repetition people will believe it. This is how the Opposition parties, the Press and the other media are under.mining the confidence of Australians today. Private enterprise is the key to the whole exercise. 
-I have never said that. All the opposition in Russia is in the cemetery or Siberia, and the honourable member is still living a very happy life here and eating 3 meals a day. This is what was said about the Budget in the  Age  editorial on 20 August: 

 Mr Hayden's Budget is mostly restrained and balanced. The strategy adopted by  Mr Hayden  was not of course the only option open to him. He could have offset a large deficit by a tough monetary policy but this would mean higher interest rates - 
I believe that they are high enough-  financial disruption, further depressing confidence and serious company failures. 
That is about the only editorial in Australia that is worth reading. Graeme McDougal, the financial editor of the Age said: 
It is the best Budget Labor has produced. 
There were prophecies by Opposition experts that the Budget would have a deficit of $5, 000m. How wrong they have been proved. The doom and gloom protagonists of the Opposition have been answered by a thoroughly responsible, sensible, constructive Budget. 
Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  congratulated the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on the work he put in on this document. Nobody, whatever he thought of the Labor Government, could denigrate that. It is one of the best Budgets that I have listened to in this Parliament. I have listened to 29 of them, and this is not yet my last. At this stage I want to answer a false statement made by the honourable member for Bass and his mate,  Senator Rae,  who is also from Tasmania. The day after the Budget an article appeared under the headline ' Nothing in it for Tasmania '. It read: 
There was nothing for Tasmania in the Federal Budget other than increased hardship, 2 Liberal MPs said last night. 
I want to deny that now in a few well-chosen words. This year Tasmania will- receive $6,800,000 under the Regional Employment Development scheme as against $3,020,000 paid out last year. The Budget provides $1 53m for the RED scheme throughout Australia to help with unemployment. We have had the subject of unemployment bashed into us, thrashed out and talked about over and over again but do honourable members realise that we have always had 70 000 people unemployed in this country even in the best years when we did not have inflation? Approximately 50 000 married women are included in the unemployment figures. They should not be included. If a woman's husband is working she has no right to be regarded as unemployed. In Australia at least 30 000 people are unemployable. This brings the number of people actually out of work back to 1 70 000. No country in the world has such a low level of unemployed as that. One finds in America, Canada, England and the other European countries that there is between 6 per cent and 9 per cent unemployment and we have an actual figure of 2Vi per cent to 3 per cent. 
No. The Government does not want to increase it. It hopes that this Budget will not increase it. The Government wants private enterprise to play its rightful place in the economy- not to sulk but to get to work and do something instead of standing on the sidelines grizzling, which is aU it seems to be doing. Private enterprise has been helped by a reduction in company tax of 5 per cent in 2 years. 
It is 5 per cent in 2 years. To my knowledge in no other period of our history has company tax been reduced by any Australian government. This Government has decreased it by 5 per cent in 2 years but Still receives no thanks for it. Company tax has been going up bit by bit, year by year up to 1974. Grants to local government in Tasmania for 1975-76 will be $2,292,000-last year theamount was $ 1 ,669,000- as part of this Government 's $134m in direct non-repayable grants to our municipalities for 2 years. This year $840,000 has been allocated to the north-west coast regional water supply scheme as a start on a $10m project, of which the Australian Government will fund 60 per cent. Sewerage grants to Tasmania this year will total $1,800,000. 1 only wish that the Government would modify the criteria for the grant to include areas with populations less than 20 000 people. 
-I think it is unreasonable that big country towns should not share in this national allocation of funds for sewerage. City and suburban transport in Tasmania will receive about $19m in the next 3 years. Housing payments to Tasmania this year will total $22,608,000. This is a reduction on last year's amount but it is still huge assistance to Tasmania. Provision has been made for $560,000 for pensioner housing. Capital works programs for government and non-government schools will total $4,442,000 this year as against $6m last year. That is part of the total reduction in government spending. I suppose that expenditure in some areas of education had to be reduced because it is such a large section of the Government's budgetary proposals. Tasmania will receive big increases in grants for recurrent purposessalaries and maintenance for government and non-government schools. The rise will be from $5,912,000 up to $9,917,000. Grants for capital works on colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges in Tasmania will rise from $2,969,000 to $5,750,000. 
Subsidies on the Australian National Line freights Will rise to over $4m for northbound general cargo other than bulk cargo this financial year from $2m last year, with $lm for the 'Empress of Australia' and $1,600,000 for the wheat subsidy, making a total of $7m. Tasmania's loss on the railways, which amounted to $ 17m, has been taken up by the Commonwealth. We are going to absorb the Tasmanian railways and upgrade them for a total cost of $70m over the next 10 years. Nursing homes have received a big increase also of $2 1 a week up to $30 a week in all States. Of course, Tasmania will share in all social security benefits throughout the island. Tasmania will get $4.5m for total health grants as compared with $2.9m last year making a total of over $ 16m more than last year and the Liberal MPs say there was nothing for Tasmania in the Budget. 
-I ask the Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has seen a report which suggests that the beef export industry may have passed through its worst stage. Is the Minister able to provide the House with any more information on the present position of beef exporters? 
I want to take up the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  on one point. He stated without bunking an eyelid that the Government had done nothing for the dairy industry. One of the worst features of listening to debates in this chamber - 
-I am sorry that the honourable member did not know that. The statement he made was completely and utterly false. Let me illustrate that under the dairy assistance plan the Government has allocated millions of dollars to assist dairymen to change over from butterfat to whole milk production. Just recently $580,000 was made available by the Government to King Island to change the factory over to milk powder production. It was part of the agreement that factories was well as dairymen could be assisted. 
Honourable members opposite criticise the scheme and now say that the scheme has run out of money. Why are you fellows not consistent? 
It is a funny way to support it when you just said in your speech that the Government has done nothing for the dairy industry - 
We might have been able to do more. We have done much more than you fellows ever did. For instance, the honourable member spoke also about increased costs in the rural industries. This is true. The farmer is at the end of the line and he cannot pass on his costs as retailers, manufacturers and wholesalers can. One factor in the cost of primary industry is the purchase of machinery. I noticed in  The Land  of 4 September an article by Brian 0'Donoghue. I think that he is the general marketing manager of Alfarm Industries Pty Ltd at Albury. He said that they are importing a lot of the big klass headers into Australia - 
-We have heard fond hopes from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  What does he think Australia is? We had a double dissolution in May last year, not 2 years after the 1972 Federal election. The Opposition in this place and in the Senate and the Press are building up this story that there will be another election to a great crescendo. I say this to the Opposition: If you take Australia to another election, you deserve to be destroyed as political parties. That would mean that we would have had 3 elections in the space of less than 3 years, in each instance as the result of your machinations and political banditry. We were elected in 1972 for a 3 year term, but the Opposition was not satisfied. It refused Supply, breaking all traditions in the Senate, and forced the Government to go to the people in May last year. Now, the Opposition is talking about doing the same thing again. If the Australian people fall for this 2 card trick, they are mighty simple. That is all I can say. If they are going to fall for all the brain washing that has been pouring out from the other side of the chamber and from the media over the last 6 months, they are more simple than I thought they were. Another election in this year- that is 3 elections in less than 3 years- would be an outrageous misuse of democratic privileges. 
And public money. So I hope that the honourable member for Griffith will not have his wish granted, that is, that the Minister for Transport is now occupying that portfolio in his last Estimates debate. I do not believe this is so. I think that there are enough sensible men in the Senate, like the new honourable senator from Albury  Senator Bunton,  and  Senator Steele  Hall, to ensure the Opposition does not have its selfish, arrogant wish to get back into power granted. 
That is all it is- a power drunk Opposition. Members of the Opposition have never got over the fact that they are in Opposition. They still think that they are governing the country in Opposition. I hope that the sensible men in the Senate will make sure that there will be no election this year, and that there will be no election before the due time, that is, May 1977. The people elected us into office for a term of 3 years. As far as the state of the economy is concerned, it is also a fabrication of the Opposition and its cohorts in the Press - 
The honourable member was siting up in the back of the chamber listening to the honourable member for Griffith talking about the next election and - 
I have answered the honourable gentleman as I wanted to answer him. The Minister for Transport has done a fantastic job over 4 fields of transport - 
Will you shut up? 
-I will do so,  Mr Chairman,  provided it does not get too rowdy to be heard. 
The Minister has done a fantastic job in the field of transport- air, rail, road and sea. They are the 4 great communications systems of the Commonwealth. In the field of rail transport he has helped to negotiate the agreements between 2 States- South. Australia and Tasmania- to take over the debts and costs of their railway systems and during the next five to ten years to upgrade those systems to the most modern systems possible. In Tasmania this will involve about S70m to $80m of Australian Government money over the next 10 years for upgrading etc. 
The Minister for Transport has made sure that new ships are on the stocks for the Australian National Line. It will not be long before one of these ships is launched at Newcastle. I hope that this ship will be called the  Tasmanian Trader  'because the only ship that has been named after Tasmania has been the  Princess of Tasmania  even though the ANL carries 70 per cent to 75 per cent of cargoes between the mainland and the island of Tasmania. I believe that the island of Tasmania should be honoured by having the word 'Tasmania' included in the name of the new ship which is to come out of Newcastle shortly. 
I also want to mention the national road system. I was the first member of this Parliament to battle for a national road system in Australia in the mid 1950s. 
We have it well on the way. The Government is taking over and upgrading the national highways of Australia as was done at great cost but with great success in the United States of America. The system in Australia will rival the United States system in terms of efficiency and the modernisation of road communications between capital cities. Tasmania has benefited and will benefit further from the takeover of the State highways under the Commonwealth financial banner. We are grateful for the moneys that have come into our State for this purpose. The new road works that have been undertaken in Tasmania are a credit to the Public Works Department of that State. The actual building of the roads is in the hands of the State authorities. The roads are not being constructed by a Commonwealth building authority; it is a Commonwealth financial authority which is permitting the State public works organisation to undertake this work. As I have said, the work in Tasmania is an absolute credit to our Public Works Department and the engineers, overseers and other men who work in and for that Department. I pay a sincere tribute to what they are doing to upgrade and modernise our main highway system in Tasmania. 
I wonder whether at some time or another we should not have a look at the hovercraft as a means of travel between Tasmania and the mainland. Modern hovercraft are being built in Great Britain by the Hovercraft Corporation. I think the time is coming when these fantastic modern vehicular hovercraft could be used on the Bass Strait run. Perhaps it would not be practical to use them during the winter time, but they could be used for 7 or 8 months of the year. Modern hovercraft that I saw being built in Britain 5 years ago are capable of taking well over 100 vehicles and over 300 people. 
I rode in them and I found the ride to be perfect. I think they have a future in this country. 
-One day the honourable member may go overseas. I hope that he will not come back. 
-I hope that we will give him a single ticket. 
I took my trip 5 years ago and - 
-I would like a bit of protection,  Mr Chairman. 
Finally, I hope that Air Tasmania Pty Ltd will soon have a second DC3 aircraft. This airline is the smallest airline in the world with one DC3 aircraft which is operating intrastate services within Tasmania. Tenders are being called at the moment for an aircraft at Nowra- at the instigation of  Mr Barnard,  the former Minister for Defence, before he resigned from the Parliament. It is the wish of all Tasmanians that this company Will be successful in that tendering. The company was founded 3 years ago by the Tasmanian Government which holds 80 per cent of the shares. The company has carried over 20 000 people from Hobart, Queenstown, Strahan, Wynyard, Devonport and Launceston in the  2Vi  years in which it has been operating. It has done so with great success, without an accident and without delays. It is doing a magnificent job within the island. I hope that this company which, as I said, was formed with 80 percent State Government money and 20 per cent west coast finance, Will be successful with the tender. If it is not I will certainly have something to say about it in this Parliament 
-Members of the Opposition are not the only people who appreciate the difficulties of rural industries. If they were on this side of the House they would not be able to solve all their problems either. Their problems are varied because agriculture is varied. My brother who is a wheat farmer in the Wimmera is at present watching his wheat die before his eyes. But farmers living about 20 miles from him had an inch of rain last week and thencrops will be saved. The tragedy created by drought and conditions approaching drought can be found in many parts of north western Victoria. Drought is hitting many parts of the country differently. Wheat and sheep farmers in the Darling River area in New South Wales are facing one of their worst droughts for many years. It is easy to talk in general about rural industry. But one has to itemise the details. In some areas things may be going well and in others not so well. Other areas may be in tragic circumstances. Australia is such a vast country that farmers in one area could be having a bumper season and farmers 200 miles further south could be experiencing a drought. 
Any government which is trying to solve the problems of the rural industries has the biggest problem of all on its hands. Problems are not so great in secondary industry or in the fields of education or health. Nowhere are problems so widespread, so hard to solve and so all embracing as they are in rural industries. It is a falsehood of the worst kind for the Opposition to charge us with deliberately trying to downgrade rural industry. We realise that 5 1 per cent of our total export income comes from the land. The Australian Government or the State Governments cannot be blamed for the fact that average earnings have dropped by a certain percentage. The price of our product rules that equation. If prices are down overseas for export commodities so will the average earnings of Australians be down. It is no use becoming super-political on this issue. One has to be fair minded about it. The Australian economy is related to overseas earnings and overseas markets. There are so many factors that change the day by day financial status of our primary producers that one is frightened when one looks at those factors sensibly and rationally. 
We have tried to help rural industries. In fact, honourable members will find on pages 28 and 29 of the Budget document entitled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the Year Ending 30 June 1976' that the Government is allocating $223,845,000 to many aspects of rural industry through trust funds and through direct grants and other aids. This money will go to the industries outlined on these pages. Last year the total was $184m. So this year we have had quite a substantial increase of nearly $40m in this field alone. 
We have also allocated $56m for an animal health laboratory in Geelong. Last year we made available $28m under the dairy industry reconstruction scheme. We gave interest free loans to dairy farmers who wanted to switch from butterfat production to whole milk production. That was not done by any previous government in our history. At this stage the fund has run out and I feel we will probably have to make more money available for this phase of our dairy industry during the next 12 months. 
The Government has also spent $40m on the first advance on wheat and, interestingly enough, in respect of the wheat stabilisation plan it is underwriting the wheat industry to the tune of $70m a year, with the first advance payment increasing to $1.50 a bushel compared with $1.10 a bushel under the previous Government. The floating pool has been increased from 20 million bushels to 74 million bushels. The Government also in the last 12 months has given $2 8m under the rural reconstruction scheme to be spread over all phases of rural industry. It has made available nearly $12m this year for the isolated children's allowance to help rural parents get their children to centres of higher education. This has been of tremendous assistance to our isolated children in lifting the standard of their education and giving them the same chances as children in the cities. The Government also made available last year $21m for rural universities; the figure was only $6m in 1972. Last year we gave $47m to colleges of advanced education in rural areas. In 1972 it was only $12m. In addition 46 per cent of social security payments goes to the rural areas of Australia. The 12 per cent currency devaluation 1 8 months ago was estimated to be worth $200m to our rural industries. Local councils in the coming 12 months will get $80m by way of direct grant from the Loan Council as a result of the implementation of this Government's policy Last year they received $56m. This will help our rural municipalities considerably in the next 12 months. 
As we know, the wool industry has been guaranteed a floor price of 250c a kilo on 2 1 micron wool. The Government is underwriting this industry to the tune of over $100m in the coming year. We are very worried at the moment by the way wool prices have declined. The Aus.tralian Wool Corporation is buying in about 25 per cent of wool at present. This is a serious development and may mean that this Government will have to find more money than is allocated in the Budget in order to buy wool on the declining market and store it for better days. Just prior to June this year the Corporation had sold a quantity of stored wool at a profit of $3m, so this is a splendid scheme. During all the years the previous Government was in office we never had such a guaranteed floor price for wool. So for the Opposition to try to tell the country that we have done nothing for the rural industries is a falsehood of the worst kind. 
In connection with the beef industry I asked a question this morning of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  in these terms: 
I ask the Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has seen the report which suggests that the beef export industry may have passed through its worst stage. Is the Minister able to provide the House with any more information on the present position of beef exporters? 
The information that has been supplied by his Department shows that the Japanese market reopened in June and that a quota of some 37 000 tonnes of beef has been allocated to date since then. Beef prices in Japan have recently strengthened and further quota increases before the end of this year seem certain. Prices in Europe have strengthened in recent weeks and the Greek market reopened last week. From the United States of America, Australia has received an additional beef import entitlement of 10 600 tonnes, over and above our quota of 279 000 tonnes. This the result of shortfalls from other exporters to the United States and another allocation this year is quite possible. The Government has been battling to open these markets again. Our overseas representatives, from the Department of Overseas Trade particularly, have been in touch with their counterparts in other countries, especially in Japan, and we are doing our best at that level to encourage the reintroduction of beef quotas. I believe that the future for beef is bright. We are also providing loan funds totalling $ 19.5m at 4 per cent interest with neither capital nor interest to be repaid for 12 months in co-operation with all the States. This will mean that something like $40m in this 12 months Will be provided to help our stricken beef industry producers. So the States and the Australian Government are combining in a magnificent fashion to help producers in their difficulties. 
They cost $50,000 to land in Australia and they have $500 Australian content. He pointed out in the article that time and again we are importing cost increases from overseas in new machinery. Of course he is right. But to listen to honourable members opposite one would think that all the cost increases occurred in Australia. That too is utterly false. 
The equivalent Australian machine costs more. 
-I am talking about imported costs. 
Let me deal with another point. Opposition members, particularly those who are or who represent farmers, are always criticising this Government for its socialism. It is marvellous how they want to socialise their losses and to individualise their gains; but that is the absolute truth. I invite the Committee to consider this: Socialism is not such a bad thing after aU. Every time we turn a tap on to get water in any town or city, we are using socialised water. If we switch on a light, turn on a stove or a refrigerator, we are using socialised power. Look out, you fellows on the Opposition side; you might get an electric shock next time, using this dreadful socialised power. 
If we pull the chain or press the button in the toilet we are using socialised sewerage. When we travel on the highways or on the city streets we are travelling on socialised streets and socialised roads. When we use port facilities around Australia we are using socialised port facilities. When we walk on footpaths, we are using socialised footpaths. When we travel by train, tram or bus we are using socialised transport. When we join the armed forces we are participating in socialised defence. Did honourable members ever realise that before? 
I could quote a whole lot of other examples which illustrate how we are living with this terrible, dreadful spectre of socialism every day and night of our lives. Yet honourable members opposite talk in this Committee as though socialism was a tool of the devil himself. Such a claim is utter rot. All social service payments, education payments, and payments to our State governments are examples of socialised expenditure. If they do not like socialism why do they not refuse to accept the money which comes from this central Government, this Australian Government, for their services. 
-What do they live like? 
-I do not know what they live like - 
Can the Minister for the Media give an assurance that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's splendidly produced and much appreciated religious programs will not be scrapped or curtailed? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is the Minister aware of last week's statement by  Mr D.  C. Urquhart,  President  of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers, that private wool selling is threatening the whole fabric of the auction system as evidenced in recent sales in Brisbane, Adelaide and Albany where the Australian Wool Corporation was forced to buy in 38 per cent of wool offered, costing $7m. Is the Minister aware that unofficial figures show that private buyers obtained 106.7 million kilograms of wool last year out of a total production of about 521.2 kilos, or 20 per cent, and that this privately bought wool is being sold overseas below the auction price? Finally, is any action available to the Government to prevent this deliberate sabotage of the auction system and the reserve floor price plan by certain conservative and selfish wool growers? 
-I will be very brief,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. The honourable member is a clever man. He should have been in vaudeville. I make one brief comment about the speech of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  If the details he stated are correct I agree entirely with his sentiments. I congratulate him on the way he presented his speech to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the sudden, dramatic and disastrous fall in the price of milk powder, on overseas markets from $400 a tonne to $250 a tonne with the consequent reduction of 10c per lb to our dairymen, will the Government consider financial assistance in some form to the affected sector of the dairy industry if an official application is made to the Government by the industry with a detailed submission as to the extent, and the effect of the setback? 
-The speech which the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has just made is the only speech he has made in recent years with which I fully agree. He said that he was rather pleased that the maritime college was to be established in Tasmania, but I think that deep down he hoped that it would be established in New South Wales. 
The honourable member did not mention that. Lakes Entrance would hardly be big enough to accommodate a decent dinghy. This legislation gives birth to another new initiative by the Australian Labor Party Government. It sets up a unique institution- a first ever achievement for Australia. It will be established in Launceston, one of Australia's finest cities. As the honourable member for Gippsland said, the establishment of this maritime college in northern Tasmania will be a real boost to both our employment and economic situation. It should be appreciated in Launceston 's education, business and communications circles, but I doubt whether many of them will appreciate it. Launceston is such a Liberal city, run by a Liberal newspaper that tells people what to do, tells them how to think, tells them what to say, tells them when to get out of bed and when to go to sleep. 
I am not saying anything of the sort. I am saying that I do not think the people of Launceston will appreciate the college as they should. The reason is that the Labor Government is establishing it. It is a pity that so many people there think that everything this Government does is wrong. They believe that there is not one ounce of goodness left in the Labor Party. However, I believe that the majority of people in Launceston will appreciate what it will mean to our prestige and to the training of these young fellows in the future. As a matter of fact, the first casino in Australia was built in Tasmanianot that I am in favour of that. Tasmania will have the first maritime college in Australia, and I am very much in favor of that. 
Tasmania pioneered the system of hydroelectric power in Australia also. It pioneered the woodchip industry and the area schools system. There are many other first-ups for our little island to the south of this continent. I must say out of loyalty to my State that this proposal is not just a by-product of somebody's imagination. Tasmania was settled next after New South Wales. If people want to see the history of this continent they should go south to Tasmania. The places of historical interest there are absolutely outstanding. I believe that the maritime college also will be good for the tourist industry. People coming from overseas will see the only college of its kind in the whole of the Australian continent. 
I pay a tribute to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  all of whom have played a vital role in bringing this project to fruition. I must also mention the historical side of it. The honourable member for Gippsland said that it had passed through his mind that it would be nice to have such a college in Australia. But he did not get it onto paper. It is a pity that, after so many years in government, honourable members opposite did not get this project on to paper and into the legislation of the Commonwealth. It took a Labour Government- the vile Labor Government, the terrible Labor Government about which the Press raves- to set up this wonderful institution. 
The project started on 25 September 1973 when  Mr M.  M. Summers was appointed the commissioner of the Maritime Industry Commission of Enquiry. On 6 May 1974 he brought down his report. I must congratulate him on one of the finest reports that I have read in my 29 years in this Parliament. I believe that for a one man effort this is a unique document. I have read it almost from cover to cover and honestly, it does him proud. It brought to light ideas, findings, comments, suggestions and history of this industry that none of us knew anything about. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland said, if ever there was an industry in this country that was behind the eight ball, hidden from sight and not thought of by the community at large, it was the maritime industry. As long as a ship runs when we get aboard, as long as we have our accommodation and our meals, that is all that most people think about. Right through the range, from passenger ships, big cargo ships down to the fishing boats, this industry has been a Cinderella industry. It has been growing like Topsy. It has been an industry of bits and pieces. It has been left out in the cold until this report came down containing in one volume everything about the industry.  Mr Summers  has done a first-class job and I would like to recommend him for a knighthood. 
Yes, a knighthood. 
Yes, the Order of Australia would be more appropriate. Anyway, that is a bit of the history of" this industry and in order to complete the story I must say that it was in November 1974 that the Australian Government agreed to implement this recommendation for the establishment of an Australian Maritime College to be associated with, if appropriate, an existing college of advanced education. On 10 June this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the College would be located in Launceston. Some people would think that decision had something to do with a by-election but I can say quite definitely that it did not as the decision had been worked out before it was known that there would be an election and it had been kept in the pigeon-holes in this place. We in Tasmania are very lucky to get this College. I know that the people of Newcastle put up a big tight to get this College in that area which also is an appropriate place for it. 
Yes. 
There you are; we people across the Bass Strait fought a little harder and we got it for Launceston. It was a great victory. It will be established in the Bass electorate held by my colleague on the other side of the fence, Kevin Newman. 
That is right. I think the facts would show that this proposal was well thought out prior to the by-election which came on very suddenly, and finished very suddenly too. Anyway, it has now been decided to build the Maritime College in Launceston alongside the College of Advanced Education in that city. It is to be built on the campus site as it is thought that the best idea is for the 2 projects to be a coordinated effort. The Maritime College will draw on the experience of the College of Advanced Education in certain subjects. I think it is an ideal set-up to have the Maritime College alongside the College of Advanced Education that we have in northern Tasmania. The Summers report envisaged that initially the Maritime College would cater for about 300 students, rising to about 600 in the longer term. It will not be a small college. The Prime Minister talked of a figure of something like $20m and I think the honourable member for Gippsland mentioned it also. 
Very well, $22m. It could reach that figure by the time it is completed in X number of years, with all the equipment, furnishings and the like. I imagine that the first stage might cost from $8m to $10m. This Bill seeks to allocate $20,000 to get the planning committee or the internum council into being and launched on its work. Most of the hard work from now on will be done not by this Government but by the interim council set up to run this College. There will be about 15 people on that council and they will represent a whole range of interested parties. 
Certain courses will fall naturally into the framework of this College, such as the advanced education level for people wishing to become deck, engineering or radio officers on the larger merchant and fishing vessels, and courses for members, of merchant and fishing fleets who wish to upgrade their qualifications or undertake refresher courses. It is expected that there will be a need to provide further training for former marine personnel associated with the fishing and shipping industries, such as fleet managers, marine superintendents, marine surveyors, marine education officers, lecturers, fishing technologists and fisheries officers. The college also will handle a much wider range than that. It is interesting to note that this also is spelt out as follows: 
In order to facilitate the provision of these courses, it would be preferable for the Newnham campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education to offer diploma or degree-level programs in engineering, applied science and business studies which would for example include the following basic subjects: mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, mechanical and electrical engineering, economics, management and legal studies. 
The idea is that the College of Advanced Education would be paid so much by the Maritime 
College for education in these fields and that the Maritime College might reasonably be expected to provide the following subjects at advanced education level to complement what I have just said: Navigation, nautical astronomy, hydrography, meteorology, aspects of marine science, fishing technology, ship construction and design, marine engineering, shipping practice, marine law and insurance, and sea transport management. That is a hefty program covering almost everything a mariner would need to know, except probably how to vote and that might come along the way. 
There will be fewer people at sea in that sense after this College gets going. It will tidy up all those problems.  Mr Summers  also said in his report: 
The major issues to be dealt with in this report are identified as: whether all those who work on Australian commercial ships are trained to a high enough standard using the present system whether the present methods of training will be adequate for the future whether the present method of certifying crews ' competency is suitable now and for the future whether there is a need for more technical training and a higher level of education whether an Australian Merchant Marine College should be established to provide a complete and extended education for seafarers. 
That was the sort of program he mapped out to examine and this report answers those questions. He also said: 
Up to the present, the training for each of the members of ships' crews has been non-existent or else piecemeal. For example, applicants for officer, and existing deck officers, have a special task in advancing their positions to learn enough not only to improve their knowledge by working on ships but to pass an examination set by the Department of Transport and obtain a Certificate of Competency. 
He then queried whether those things were adequate. He said: 
To all those who pass the examination, the Department grants a Certificate of Competency. These Certificates are the only evidence that any deck officer or engineer has to testify proficiency, other than his experience on the job. 
Yet these Certificates are mainly concerned with matters of safety. The examinations were set up in an attempt to ensure that an officer will handle a ship in such a manner that he will be acting in a way that is consistent with a knowledge of what he needs to do to sail safely and that he is aware of the laws and regulations setting out the safety requirements. 
He went on to say: 
The examinations have little to do with the commercial requirements of the owners of ships and the meaning of those requirements to an officer on a modern ship. The examinations are not always up to date in their references to operational requirements on board. 
He was quite convinced after examining all phases of employment in our seafaring industry that the industry desperately needed a college of this magnitude. He also suggests that because students will be coming from all over Australia to this college in Launceston, residential accommodation will have to be provided. That will be a pretty hefty addition to the college itself. He said: 
Subject to a means test the student would qualify for a living allowance, an incidentals allowance and a travel allowance under the Government 's Tertiary Allowances Scheme. 
That would come right within the field of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley). Mr Summers  continues: 
Whether shipowners wish to make payments to students seems to me to depend on the attitude which each shipowner takes. 
I understand that the leaders of this project were meeting the shipowners today on some of these issues. He continues: 
If a shipowner wants to select his own men before they begin training, then I would think that owner would make some form of payment to those men. I would certainly hope that owners would develop scholarship schemes for students at the college. 
That is fair enough. They will not have to pay for their training as such but a scholarship scheme would certainly encourage a greater efficiency by the students going to the college.  Mr Summers  also said: 
The college should obviously be near the sea, and close to a major centre of population with shipping and fishing operations. 
I think Launceston and its environs has a population of something like 70 000 people. It is at the top end of the Tamar Valley into which flows two rivers- the South Esk and the North Esk. The South Esk River is the freshest, best river. It flows through Wilmot. North Esk River is a poor, turgid kind of river flowing through Bass. But both rivers end up in the Tamar River which flows 40 miles down to the sea, past the wood chip industry, past Bell Bay and out to the Bass Strait. As I have mentioned, the siting of this college near the campus of the Northern School of Advanced Education is close to all these features that would be required.  Mr Summers  said: 
There should be a small advisory committee to assist the principal of the college. That committee- 
This is the permanent one I should imagine- should include representatives of shipowners, seafarers' organisations, the fishing industry, and the Government Departments issuing Cerificates of Competency. 
I say that that particular committee would be one of the most unique in the Commonwealth where there are shipowners and seamen's union representatives sitting round the same table with the fishing industry boys to work out the problem of higher education. That would be unique and a wonderful combination of people and groups.  Mr Summers  says: 
Later, the college could provide further courses of various kinds. These could include the following: higher level courses in place of those required for the Extra Master and Extra First Class Engineer Certificates. Updating, refresher and specialist courses bridging courses for ratings with the ability to go on to officer levels, a course leading to a qualification for senior ratings other related special purpose courses, such as for marine superintendent or marine surveyors. 
One further point I should like to mention is Commissioner Summers reference to recruitment on pages 54 and 62 of the report. He says that trends are continuing in that ships crews are becoming smaller in number, but more skilled as the ships themselves become more sophisticated. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Gippsland. That is the third time that I have mentioned the honourable member in this speech- favourably. It should go down on record. 
We are getting along, are we hot, Peter. I think that what Commissioner Summers means is that there is less recruitment required per total tonnage because the ships are becoming more sophisticated, more mechanised and more automated to run. Yet when it comes to recruitment itself, Commissioner Summers paints a remarkable picture. He says: 
Of the 946 deck officer entrants, 348 or 37 per cent were recruited, and therefore received some or all of their training in Australia; 598 or 63 per cent came from, and were consequently at least partially trained, overseas. 
He went on to say: 
The large proportion of entrants from overseas has been a feature right throughout the period. In 1965, 48 per cent of the entrants came from Australia and 52 per cent from overseas. In 1970, only 26 per cent of entrants were recruited in Australia, and in 1973 the figure was 45 per cent. It is clear the industry would have found it difficult to function without the aid of personnel trained outside Australia. 
The industry has been less reliant upon overseas sources for engineer officers and for ratings. From 1965 to 1973, 973 or 62 per cent of the total of 1574 new engineer officer entrants came from Australia and 601 or 38 per cent from overseas. 
So honourable members can see that this is a very important feature. With this sort of training we look like recruiting 80 per cent of our staff within the country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to speak to the House about the Opposition's threatened rejection of the Appropriation Bills. I speak as a Labor back bencher. I speak as one who has been in this Parliament for 29 years, who has sat through 29 Budgets and the reign of 7 Prime Ministers. For months large sections of the media have been relentlessly brainwashing and bludgeoning the people of Australia into accepting the concept of another Federal election, the third in 3 years. The media and their mates, the members of the Opposition, together with their powerful friends the bankers, investors, big business, cartels, monopolies and others, have formed a partnership to destroy this Government by hook or by crook. 
Let us not underestimate the power of the Press and todays television coverage.  Mr Syme,  once chief of the  Age,  speaking in 1929 or 1930, said he could make and unmake governments. Interestingly, the media create the issues by constant propaganda and use the Opposition to feed the material into this House and the Senate. They are trying to create a situation of doom and disaster. By constant repetition, Goebbels-like, they brainwash the people into believing things are bad when the majority of Australians have never had it so good. Their latest excursion into Alice in Wonderland is to convince the Frasers, the Anthonys, the Lynchs, the Greenwoods, the Withers and the Sinclairs that the best method of getting their way is to refuse supply in the Senate, an unprecedented act of political banditry never before attempted in any upper House in the world. 
The Opposition's action is political banditry, colossal arrogance, massive irresponsibility and sickening conceit unequalled in our parliamentary history. So desperate for power is the Opposition that it is prepared to plunge Australia into a constitutional crisis of frightening proportions. What has the Opposition to offer Australia anyway? The Opposition has established itself as the most negative, most destructive, most barren Opposition in our history. It has obstructed this Government in everything it has tried to do, especially in the Senate. Its cynicism, egotism and misrepresentation of Labor's policy is frightening and outrageous. The Opposition has contributed scarcely one new idea to the debates in the past 2'/2 years. It is still the merchant of the status quo and the architect of conservatism. It fights progress. It is the mental and economic dinosaur of this century. It has used its majority in the Senate with ruthlessness, malice and irresponsibility. It would prostitute the democratic processes by rejection of the Appropriation Bills. It wants to march this nation backwards into spoils for the strong and to hell with the weak. 
Australian electors put Labor into office in December, 1972, for 3 years, that is, till December this year. But that was not to be. The arrogant Opposition, through threats of refusing Supply in May 1974, forced a double dissolution. 
It was completely unnecessary. Labor was again elected in May 1974 till May 1977. Still not satisfied, still acting as if they are God's chosen people born to rule, still smarting in Opposition, still refusing to accept the umpire's decision, members of this miserable Opposition are again threatening to plunge Australia into another federal election by Christmas. If the Opposition succeeds with this banditry and gets its shabby, sordid way, it will mean 3 elections in 3 years at a cost of $7m in election costs alone. All these attempts to bypass decency, tradition, fair play and convention are nothing less than prostitution of our democratic processes. A few men in the Press have seen the light. Laurie Oakes' excellent articles over the last 3 days come to my mind. 
Let us reverse this situation and put Labor in Opposition with a majority in the Senate. Imagine Labor trying to engineer an election in like circumstances. What screaming headlines we would see in the Press and on the television. The Media would be writing about Labor's irresponsibility for hitting the nation with an unnecessary election only 18 months after the last one, causing confusion and uncertainty and lack of confidence such as the Opposition is responsible for at this moment. We would see in the Press stories tearing Labor to pieces for a shocking waste of taxpayers' money. But not so today. The Opposition's banditry is praised and supported by large areas of the Press and the media. Honourable members should read the shocking and ridiculous leading articles in the Press of today and yesterday. One newspaper, I believe, is an exception. I refer to the  Adelaide Advertiser.  Good luck to it. The other newspapers have not a word, not a line of criticism about the waste of taxpayers' money or about forcing the country into another election. The Press bosses want Labor defeated, so like Syme of the  Age  45 years ago- the policy did not change under the previous editor- they are out to destroy this Government by hook or by crook. 

 Senator Steele Hall laid it on the line in the Senate yesterday. He said some very fiery and truthful things about the Opposition. I have not time to read them but they are on page 1 175 of yesterday's Senate  Hansard  Also in the Press on 2 October  Senator Steele  Hall warned  Mr Fraser  that a rejection of the Budget would destroy the stability of Australian politics. He said that by blocking the Budget  Mr Fraser  's leadership capacity would automatically degenerate to the disadvantage of the Liberal Party.  Senator Bunton  also made an excellent speech on this matter last night. Eight professors around Australia, none of them belonging to a political party, made a joint statement, as reported in the Press of Saturday, 1 1 October. They warned that any move to reject the Budget by the Opposition in the Senate would threaten the stability of Australian society and parliamentary government. They said the move was a constitutional impropriety of the first order. They went on to say that for any party to depart from convention for immediate partisan advantage would jeopardise the consensus on which our system of government depends. Further, they said that the use of such power by the Senate would be deplorable and would debase the constitutional system. 
The Methodist and Presbyterian Churches annual conferences met in Melbourne at the same time this week and, unbeknowns to each other, passed resolutions condemning the Opposition for knocking out Supply in the Senate. An article appeared in the  Age  under the headline: Churches Hit at Threat to Supply'. The article stated: 
The Methodist and Presbyterian Churches have condemned the threatened rejection of Supply by the Senate . . . 
This is the first time in history that 2 great churches, representing 100 000 communicants in Victoria and Tasmania, have come out with an identical political statement. The statement is not against parties. It has nothing to do with parties. It is just that the 2 churches can see what this move will do to the country and to the people of Australia.  Mr Hogan,  the chief in the Australian Farmers Federation, last week expressed deep concern on behalf of his organisation at the Opposition's move. The late  Sir Isaac  Isaacs and  Sir Robert  Menzies would not be found in this company. They would strongly oppose this shabby, dangerous action by the Opposition. This attempt to circumvent tradition and the Constitution is an act of sheer anarchy- no matter what one may term it it is blatant political anarchywhich will add fuel to the fires of anarchy in the nation. It could sow the seeds of violent revolution in a few years time. If the Liberals and National Country Party senators do this thing and reject Supply how can they ever again rise against the forces of violence and anarchy in our community? They are sowing the seeds of anarchy and will be showing disrespect and contempt for law and authority which they have accused unionists and others of showing time and time again. Do not let us ever hear honourable members opposite get up in this House again and attack anarchist activity or violence in this country, for they are the architects of the same thing by taking this wretched and shabby action. If they get away with this rejection of Supply eventually we will see the disintegration of the Senate and later still its demise, and that might be a darn good thing for this country. Perhaps, after all, the members of the Opposition in this critical situation deserve to be named the political and constitutional barbarians of the 20th century. If they force an election, a part election in the Senate, in these unprecedented and dangerous circumstances, the people of Australia should reject them like we reject banditry at any level anywhere. 
It is a wonder the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has not broken his arm by patting himself on the back. I would like to put forward a few facts on the matter. The Bill has been held up in the Senate and not in this place. I think the Opposition should be very grateful to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for being big enough and co-operative enough to accept the amendments that were made in the Senate. 
-The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  has supplied us with some most interesting facts concerning the wool industry. Let me comment on two or three of the statements that he made this afternoon. I refer first to his charge that the Government has deferred or delayed the release of the report on nitrogenous fertiliser. The honourable member's knowledge is not very great as this week that report from the Industries Assistance Commission was tabled in this Parliament. It is still to be discussed by our Committee and then the Government. 
The others are also in the pipeline. The next point that I wish to mention is in respect of the charge -  (Quorum formed) 
The second criticism that the honourable member made was that wool growers have to contribute so much towards the wool industry through the levy of 5 per cent. This was partly an arrangement agreed upon between the Government and the industry at the time to establish the floor price plan. The wool industry itself agreed that its members would be willing to pay a 5 per cent levy towards the cost of stabilisation of the industry. There is no need to criticise that aspect as the levy was agreed to by the growers themselves. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  who spoke earlier today on this issue gave us his typical depressing, derogatory speech about this Government and its performance. It is remarkable to hear criticism from the other side on a measure of this type when, for 23 years in government, the Opposition parties failed to bring such a measure before the country. I might mention that the father of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who is at the table- I refer to  Sir Charles 
Adermann- in the 1960s when he was Minister for Primary Industry favoured the idea of a fixed reserve price for wool. He said so in 1965. He was able to go no further than that as the Liberal Party made sure that such a piece of legislation never hit the statute books. I pay tribute to  Sir Charles  Adermann because he had vision then but the Liberal Party made sure that his vision never took material form. So the wool industry continued for another 7 years without a guaranteed floor price for wool. It was up to a Labor government to bring it in. This is one of the historic acts of this Party which will always be recognised because the legislation will always be on the statute book, as far as I can ascertain, in the same way as is the legislation which introduced the wheat stabilisation plan in 1947. It is still part and parcel of the support for our rural industry and it was brought in by a Labor government. 
The honourable member for Canning also mentioned faction fighting within the ranks of the Government over the guaranteed price of 250c per kilo. We did have a bit of difficulty about this in June. There was a change of heart by the Cabinet but the decision was reversed in the Caucus in a substantial manner following a crisis spread over about 4 days. It was most unfortunate that there was this difficulty at that time- I readily admit this- but the decision was reversed and the Government is guaranteeing a price of 250c per kilo clean 2 1 micron wool. The so-called faction fighting was not faction fighting at all. Everything happened in 24 hours and the decision was changed in 24 hours. But faction fighting was going on in the Liberal and Country Parties over rural programs and rural policies when they were in government for 7 years before we came into office. That faction fighting did not last for 24 hours. It lasted for 7 long years. It was never resolved. It is still on too. 
It was scandalous for the Deputy Leader of the Country Party to suggest that this Bill we are now debating incorporates new guarantees to cover borrowings from private banks. He ought to know as an ex-Minister that all loan dealings with private banks to help statutory authorities and banks require government guarantees and government guarantees are given. This is an automatic procedure. We have just carried on in the same way as previous governments acted in this respect. There is nothing new about this; there is nothing sinister about it. But according to the Deputy Leader of the Country Party everything we do is sinister. Everything he says in this House has that element in it. He is all the time looking for mistakes in the sewers of this country. 
He lives in the sewers of this country looking for errors and mistakes that we have made. He is having a very poor time lately in finding anything worth while. I hope that one day he gets out of the sewers and gets a bit of fresh air. He needs a bit of country fresh air. 
I condemn the honourable member for the way in which he treated this Bill. He never sees anything good in our legislation- he has not said so openly anyway. He seems to be obsessed with the idea that anything the Labor Government brings down is evil from the beginning and that colours all his thinking and all his speeches in this Parliament. 
-Who is making this speech? You can come across here and see what you can do; come on. In respect of the guaranteed price of 250c per kilo for 21 micron wool there has been criticism amongst some of our growers that this does not cover a very big percentage of the total amount of wool produced in Australia. I have checked this out with the responsible department and I find that for purely illustrative purposes the level of floor price support is expressed in terms of a particular type of wool- in this case 2 1 micron wool clean basis. 
My question, addressed to the Treasurer, relates to the recent Budget which outlined expenditure of over $2 1,000m. How much of that outlay will be inoperative until the Opposition in the Senate is prepared to pass the Appropriation Bills? Is it time that among Budget expenditure which cannot yet be paid are all increases approved for civil and repatriation pensioners? Such increased expenditure in Tasmania amounts to $6m in one year alone. 
