At the moment we are debating the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech, to which an amendment has been moved. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  correctly pointed out, the amendment deals with the alleged refusal of Ministers to report to the Parliament on a number of matters. The Leader of the House dealt adequately with most of the 6 points that were raised. I find it hard to understand how the question of health came into this amendment, because 1 had the task of posting away quite a number of health statements issued by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and I know what the postage bill was. We are here on the 8th working day of the sitting and we have reference in the amendment to one thing only: The refusal to report and to add statements to a notice paper which already includes, for the 8 days, 23 Bills. The Bill that was introduced this afternoon makes it 24. 
I do not deny for a moment that the matters which have been raised are major matters. They have a very real import, and 1 intend to touch on some of them. I hold that the Leader of the House has been correct in drawing attention to the amount of discussion that has taken place on these matters already. Since about 5 o'clock we have covered the whole field in the debate. We have dealt with hours of sitting, the number of questions asked and the number of sitting days in various parliaments across the world, and we have dealt with censure debates. Right through I listened with interest to see if anything would be said on what 1 hold to be the most important responsibility of the government today, and that is defence. 1 did not hear it. Do we take it from that that the Opposition is satisfied with the Government's policies on defence and with the progress made? That is the only conclusion that one can come to. On the subject of primary industry we had an urgency debate. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  took part in the debate. There again I did not hear one constructive suggestion coming from the Opposition. Their whole approach was either to pull down or to criticise. I think people are looking for more than that. They are looking for something to put In the place of criticised legislation. I listened with very close attention to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who has just resumed his seat. He talked about the Government's policy and asked what action the Government was going to take. There again there was not one constructive suggestion that would have pleased anybody on the land. There may have been a suggestion from the Opposition that the problems of the sugar industry should be taken to the United Nations. I do not know whether this would have given much relief to the people of Queensland or northern New South Wales. 
The debate on the Address-in-Reply is an opportunity for honourable members to spend 25 minutes discussing any problem that interests them. It would be interesting to analyse the speeches that have already been made from the other side to see how many members of the Opposition have dwelt on the problems mentioned in the Opposition amendment. My constituents do not give mc the impression that they want to hear lengthy speeches. What they want is action. The Government is paying close attention to this nation's problems and action is taking place. Of all the matters for which this Liberal-Country Party Government is responsible defence has absolute priority. The Governor-General in delivering his speech dealt briefly with the history of Australia's discovery by Captain Cook. He then referred to the bi-centenary celebrations and the forthcoming Royal tour. The Speech then passed quickly to 
Australia's future. I was pleased to note that very early in his Speech the GovernorGeneral said:' 
The Government continues to support the principles of the .United Nations. 
The Governor-General then passed immediately to the subject of defence and forecast that a statement would be made on the subject by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That statement was made last week, ft was a comprehensive statement, dealing with our long range strategic policies. It listed the priorities and new proposals for the infra structure of the defence forces, lt dealt with fixed installations necessary for any possible military operations. It gave details of proposals for airfields and naval bases. The statement emphasised the basic premise that aggression must be seen to be unsuccessful. That is the basic theme of our entire defence strategy. 
The next important matter dealt with by  His Excellency  and upon which I wish to say a few words is the state of the economy with particular emphasis on the expert primary industries. Before doing so I would draw the attention of honourable members to the January issue of the 'Treasury Information Bulletin'. Constantly recurring throughout that document are such expressions as 'growth in demand', 'significantly fewer registered for employment', unfilled vacancies up', 'private investment spending 15% higher', 'consumer spending buoyant', 'retail sales up 7%', and 'registration of passenger vehicles 10% higher*. As you would expect under these conditions, the consumer price index is 2.8% higher than it was 12 months ago. Something which I always regard as very significant and which I often look foi is the level of savings bank deposits. They have increased 7.5% over last year's figure to a remarkable total of $6,940m or about $556 per head of population. But it cannot be said that the export primary industries are enjoying the level of prosperity that exists throughout the rest of the economy. Last year rural output declined by 4% . This was probably due to a reduction in wheat production in the previous year and to a decline in sugar production. A man named John Brunner wrote in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 2nd June 1969: 
Australia's rural scene today could best be described as a fair average quagmire from which not everyone is going to be extricated painlessly. 
The same man applied the domino theory to our rural industries. He described how the low returns from wool have caused a switch to wheat. Anybody who knows anything about the primary industries knows that this is correct. Some say that the wheat domino is toppling over. I still have faith in the wheat industry provided it is correctly controlled, and that is the policy of this Government - to co-operate with the industry in controlling it. Whatever happens to the wheat industry obviously has an effect on the growing of barley, oats and coarse grains. 
The shift from dairying has thrown extra weight on the beef cattle industry, but at the moment the industry can take it. The comparatively flourishing state of this industry is not due to low costs or even to costs being held; it is due in the first place to increased efficiency on the part of the cattle producer and secondly to world demand, which is sticking to us. I have referred to the efficiency of the cattle producer. To those who would pass derogatory remarks about the Government's actions I would point out that the industry has been helped to a large extent by this Government's policies. It has been helped by the hard negotiations entered into by the Department of Trade and Industry. I think immediately of exports to the United States and Japan. The market diversification policies have been of considerable assistance to producers. More and more trade posts have been set up throughout the world. I think there are now 46 fully operative trade posts in 35 different countries. 
I call to mind the recent sale of 30,000 tons of beef to Russia. A lot of people were amazed to hear of that sale. There are prospects of sales to such eastern European countries as Hungary, Romania and Czechoslovakia. I am pleased that of the 30,000 tons of beef sold to Russia 2,000 is to come from the Lachlan Valley County Council abattoir in Forbes in my electorate. This order will mean increased sales for producers in the area from which the abattoir draws its supplies. It will mean additional pay - overtime pay - for the slaughtermen employed at the abattoir. The order will assist the meat operator to overcome his market diversification problems and, incidentally, the Russians will get some pretty good beef. 1 have referred to increased efficiency. This has been encouraged by legislation brought down by this Government. In 1960 the Australian Cattle and Beef Research Committee was set up at the request of the industry to carry out research into the beef industry. In 1966 sheep meats were brought within the scope of the Committee's investigations and the Committee was renamed the Australian Meat Research Committee. A levy on stock slaughtered was called for and this Government provided a matching grant. Now another small slaughter levy has been imposed to assist the processing industry. Again, this will be matched by the Government. All of these policies are designed to assist the industries concerned. Those affecting the cattle industry have been of great value to it. The investigations being conducted into the processing industry will be of direct benefit to that industry. The efficiency of the industry, aided by the Government in the form of research grants, subsidies on superphosphate, taxation incentives, and assistance to find markets, coupled with increasing world demand, arc enabling the producer to keep ahead and to increase production. The prices at which he is currently able to sell enable him to maintain a reasonable gap between costs and prices. But I am afraid this is not so with other primary industries. Wheat has been hit with both barrels - increasing costs on one side and a decline in world demand with over supply on the other. The wheat industry certainly does not share in the prosperity that has been depicted. 
Wool is probably the industry of greatest concern to the Australian primary producer at the moment. The price has now declined to the point at which it was about 20 years ago. If we adjust the price to the marked increase in the prices of all materials and services which go into the production of wool the real value of I lb of wool is very much below what it was 20 years ago. If we go further and take into consideration present trends we find that the price of all inputs needed for production has increased repeatedly by from 3% to  5%  annually. Who is to say what will happen to wool prices in the future? The week before last they were shocking in Brisbane. Last week they opened firm in Sydney compared with the previous Sydney sale but towards the end of the week they dropped another cent and we note that the average price is now about the 39c mark. To sit back and adopt a Micawber type attitude will result - and I do not exaggerate - in derelict farms, displaced people, a hastened movement from the country to the city and financial ruin, no less, for a lot of people. One check on this is a concerted drive on efficiency in some of the secondary industries, particularly those which provide input materials for the use of primary industry, such as steel products, phosphate, chemicals and this type of thing. 
Some people are not fully- aware of the situation and if there are people who feel that the present unrest among farmers is some sort of passing phase or peculiar phenomenon which will pass with (he effluxion of time they had better get rid of that idea straight away because this time the effects could spread. I have in my possession a cutting from an issue of the Daily Telegraph' of last December. I will not go through it in detail but I. epitomise it by saying that it refers to a spokesman of the firm of Massey-Ferguson (Aust.) Ltd who speaks of curtailed production, severely depressed farm machinery markets, substantial reductions in the work force at Bendigo and substantial reduction in activity at Sunshine. I quote this article because unless this situation is corrected now it can spread. A representative of the International Harvester Co. of Aust. Pty Ltd has said that last May his company saw the writing on the wall for it regarding tractors and machinery for wheat. He spoke about gradually cutting down on production. 
I refer to an article which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 6th March 1970. That newspaper does not make many mistakes. It says that land prices in the central west and west of New South Wales are falling sharply. It puts the causes down as drought, low prices for wool and fit lambs, wheat quotas and the cost price squeeze. It gives some examples. Some seem to me to be exaggerated - I will be fair about this - and not representative of the real position, but I know . from personal observation and from mixing with bank managers, professional men and agents that in some areas properties are selling for below the Valuer-General's valuation. I mention this because of remarks I have heard in this House. 
From my knowledge of the rural1 economy I would say that the Government's decision to authorise and to guarantee the payment of $1.10 as a first payment on next season's wheat up to a set quota, which all farmers should know shortly, is the factor which will turn rural recession, affecting not only the producer but all who depend on him, into a comparatively stable situation which will provide a basis upon which a gradual1 corrective policy can be implemented. I cannot understand those people who talk of inflation in country areas - those who fear any form of inflationary trend - because of this payment for wheat. They just do not know the position of rural industries. As to corrective action, we know that rural industries and the Government have been active in seeking further markets overseas. Unfortunately the wool industry is still split in its approach to major changes in handling and marketing procedures. Some minor changes have been agreed to . but in the past the Government has twice offered to underwrite a changed marketing plan for wool and on each occasion the Government placed no limit at alt on the ceiling of its contribution yet the industry refused the offers. I can say from my knowledge that the Government realises that primary industry is greatly disadvantaged because of the increasing cost of input materials. It is realised that these increases are caused, to some extent, by deliberate Government policies which, for a start, are designed to increase Australia's population. Of course, it is important to provide jobs for the increased population and the Government has done this in the only possible quarter, namely, secondary industry. This leads to increased numbers being employed in the tertiary or service industries. To the extent that increased population expands the home market primary industry has been assisted but I am afraid that the result, on balance, is against it. Therefore the Government now stands ready to continue the assistance that has been provided in the past in many forms by way of subsidy, bounty and concessions. There is some pessimism at the moment about the possibility of the wool industry coming forward with a plan for Government co-operation in the rehabilitation of the industry. It appears to me that the industry is fairly active at present in its study of various projects. 
As I said a while ago, the Government and industry have combined in arrangements to set up a wool marketing corporation. This is active co-operation between the Government and industry. Financial assistance will be available for improved wool marketing arrangements and also for wool promotion and research, but this is only scratching the surface of the marketing and handling problem. Other moves are continuing in the Government and in the industry itself. In New South Wales alone some people have been seeking a royal commission to actually define the position. But I think most of us know it. A major mass meeting is being held in Moree next Saturday where it is expected that thousands of growers will attend with one idea in view - to discuss the compulsory acquisition of the wool' clip. I know that the Executive Committee of the Graziers Association of New South Wales will put forward to its general conference next month a development incentive arrangement for consideration. Who knows but that this might provide a plan for an interim period in which the whole industry will have to get down to basic bedrock values and plans. 
I did want to speak in particular on one or two problems of great importance to all rural industries. The one which I particularly wanted to mention but which I will not have time to break into is the matter of rates payable by the man on the land. This matter has been referred to by honourable members on this side of the House before. I wanted to give some detailed information to back up my claim that the primary producer is already heavily taxed and that his rates have almost reached the stage where they are unbearable. The position has been aggravated in New South Wales by the recent valuations of the State Valuer-General. It may be said that this has nothing to do with the Commonwealth. It does have some thing to do with the Commonwealth. I have here a letter from the Treasurer which is well marked now. In it he says, amongst other things: 
Valuations by the Valuer-General for State death duty or stamp duty purposes are ordinarily accepted without question for Commonwealth estate duty or gift duty purposes. 
So valuations are of great concern to the Commonwealth Government. When I get the opportunity to put figures in front of the Government later it will see that valuations are a difficult problem. I hope that the Commonwealth will look at valuations made by the Valuer-General's Departments and make its own assessment of whether they have been carried out effectively and on a fair basis. 
The Minister for the Interior will remember that I have asked questions on past occasions relating to the wishes of the United Arab Republic that Australia should remove its war dead from war cemeteries in Alexandria. I have coupled this with a suggestion that Australia should dedicate an Australian national cemetery in Canberra. Can the Minister report any progress in the investigation of these matters? 
Much of the debate this morning has centred on the Vietnam Moratorium, as well it could on an occasion such as this, lt is a grievance with me, but it is not the grievance about which I wish to speak now. I deplore the whole of the circumstances surrounding the Vietnam demonstrations. I will not honour them with the word moratorium', which is rather a clever misnomer. My views on this matter have been made known, quite adequately, to the people I represent in this place through the normal channels in the places where they live and work. 
Today I want to speak about the valuation of land, particularly in rural areas, and local government rating as it affects people in the rural community. During my speech in the Address-in-Reply debate I touched on this matter, but I did not have time to develop it as I wanted. It could be said that this matter is a State function, but that is not the case for a number of reasons. First. I shall quote part of a letter that I received from the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  when I made inquiries to check on the system of Commonwealth valuations. I shall quote 1 or 2 sentences from that letter. It draws attention to the fact that valuations vary from State to State. But the point I want to bring out is contained in the following words in the Treasurer's letter: 
Valuations by the Valuer-General for State death duty or stamp duty purposes are ordinarily accepted without question for Commonwealth estate duty or gift duty purposes. 
There is a second reason why this comes into the Commonwealth field. Some Commonwealth properties are within local government areas and are not rateable. Thirdly, the Australian Country Party realises - and I am sure the whole Government does - the impact of local government rates on the rural economy. It was announced in the last Federal election campaign that the policy objective of the Party to which I belong - and I hope it will soon become Government policy - is to grant assistance to local government authorities, through the State 
Governments, to provide civic amenities so that the really heavy rate burden about which I am speaking in rural communities will be not increased in future. 1 have some specific figures on valuations. I will confine myself to quoting those that apply to the New South Wales system of valuations. I will quote the figures that apply to my own electorate because they tell a very remarkable story. There are 7 shires which have their headquarters in the electorate which I represent. The total of unimproved capital valuations in the shire of Molong in 1963-64 was $8.4m. By 1969, that is 6 years later, this figure had risen to $ 16.6m. The figure nearly doubled after one valuation. In the shire of Boree in 1962 the figure was $4,182,941. By 1969 it had jumped to the remarkable figure of $15,546,965 in the one valuation. In the shire of Wellington total valuations in 1966 were $7,587,000. Now the total is $16,587,771, which is over double the previous amount. In the shire of Cudgegong the figures rose from $7,752 958 in 1967 to the present figure of $10,735,472. The last one for which I have figures is the shire of Jemalong, where total valuations jumped from $7,477,786 in 1966-67 to the present figure of $23,520,882, which is an almost unbelievable total. There are 2 other shires in my electorate. In one a new valuation is due this year and in the other it is not quite due yet. 
What crazy system brings about these figures? If the values are right - and one would only hope that they are - and if a lot of the country could be converted to cash at these values, a lot of people would be doing so. If the values are right now, they were wrong before, and vice versa. They are not right in both cases. I have confined my remarks to New South Wales, but I recall that on 12th March the honourable member for Mallee raised this matter in a question to the Treasurer. From reading that question, I see that much the same type of situation exists in the western part of Victoria. The basis of local government rating is the unimproved capital value of the land, and when the valuations to which I have referred increased they caused a tremendous, staggering increase in rates. 
Rates have become one of the major costs confronting the rural industries. In theory, this should not be, because it does not necessarily follow that because a valuation goes up the total rates levied should increase; but in fact something seems to slip up and this situation does come about. Local government rates throughout the areas with which I am familiar have risen very steeply. It is held by organisations in the area from which I come and in other areas throughout New South Wales and the other States that shire rates swallow up about 15% per cent of the gross proceeds from the average wool clip. I will quote an example of the sort of thing that is going on. It is so serious that the landowners in the Waugoola shire held a meeting, and as a result they are refusing to pay the council rates which have been struck for 1970. They say they will pay a rate based on 50% of the 1969 rating because, to use their words, that is a fair and equitable contribution by landowners to local government. It is not a question of discomfort or difficulty. They have come to the position where it is beyond their capacity to pay. We have to look at thos aspect quite closely. In the shire of Waugoola valuations have risen by 100% since 1966. 
I lead on to what I think could be part of the solution. On 4th March the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales announced that in the next budget the Government would increase the Local Government Assistance Fund to $5m. This Fund is to compensate municipal and shire councils for rates which are not paid on Government property. Four days after the announcement was made the Minister for Local Government called on the Commonwealth Government to contribute to the same fund. He said that he had asked the Commonwealth Treasurer to contribute to this fund on a $1 for SI basis. I do not know what result that approach had. I seek this information from the Government. At the same time I urge that the policy objective of the Australian Country Parly be adopted as Government policy, resulting in Government action. It seems to me that a $1 for $1 subsidy for local government assistance in New South Wales and other  States  is the type of action that was held in mind when this policy was brought forward. 
Finally, as the Commonwealth assesses some of its taxes and duties on the basis of local government valuations, and as the Government is showing so much concern at this time at the position of rural industries, it is up to the Commonwealth Government, when it takes these valuations from a State Valuer-General, to satisfy itself that the valuations have in fact been made on a true and fair basis. 
I want to identify myself with this Bill because I know, like a number of other people in this House who have been interested in this project for quite a number of years, that the project will give a boost to Australia's reputation in astronomy. My particular interest dates back to 1963 when the Australian National. University Bill was introduced by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. I raised this matter in 1966 and during the debate on the Budget Estimates in 1967. I remember well that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  led for the Opposition at that time. We also heard speeches from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is now the Minister for Social Services, and others, particularly one of our colleagues at the time,  Mr Failes,  who was then the honourable member for Lawson. He had a great interest in this matter because Siding Spring Mountain was in his electorate. The Australian National University Bill was designed to remove any restrictions of a geographical nature from the workings of the Australian National University in the field of astronomy. At that time some of us took the opportunity to advocate the building of the telescope with which this Bill deals. 
This suggestion received very strong support. The Australians received strong support from leaders in astronomy throughout the world. I think it is as well to remember these things because they have helped to put Australian astronomers in world class. I remember that Professor Ambortsumian, a Russian, at that time was  President  of the International Astronomy Union. He chaired a symposium in Canberra in 1963. The construction of a telescope of this size had the support of the Astronomer Royal,  Sir Richard  Woolley. Honourable members will remember that at one time he was Commonwealth Astronomer and I think he was Professor of Astronomy at the Australian National University. Professor Gold of the Cornell University in the United States of America expressed the opinion at that time that Australia was then in the top flight in the field of radio astronomy. He gave great support to the proposal for a 150-inch telescope, upon which we have now decided. 
I think I should digress here to refer to the great spirit of co-operation which exists among astronomers throughout the world. In this troubled world of ours we grab at anything at all which will unite the peoples of the world who are working for something better. They work together firstly through the exchange of information, which is given readily throughout the world. The time of use of the great telescope at Parkes, which is working 24 hours a day, is shared between certain nations. I remember being there not long ago with 2 Ministers of the House. We were spoken to by an Indian who described to us in a lay way the pulsing quasars that they have found as timed against the atomic clock. The fact that we have these people working in our observatories is all to the good. There is co-operation in relation to finance also. The telescope at Parkes was paid for partly by the Carnegie Corporation, partly by the Rockefeller Foundation, and partly by private subscription and, I am glad to say, the Commonwealth Government, which provided more than half the funds. Again in this Bill we see international cooperation. The cost of the telescope will be shared by the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth. 
At this time I think it would be fitting to refer to the work of Professor Bart Bok. 
He was known to a large number  of  people in this country. Here again there is an international aspect to the matter. He was born in Holland, he was a naturalised American, and he spent a great deal of his time working at Mount Stromlo and in astronomy in general in this country. He was a great agitator for the 150-inch telescope that will be built. He wanted it as a basic insrument to be used in what he termed the British-Commonwealth Southern Observatory. I remember, in a paper he delivered - I think it was to one of the international symposiums - under the heading The Galaxy and the Magellanic Clouds', he said: 
An instrument with an aperture of 150 inches should provide in Australia a major telescope that need not take second place to any now in the planning stage. 
This Bill provides for the construction of such a telescope. He pointed out that experience overseas had demonstrated that a 120-inch  reflector  was exceedingly useful but on the small side by modern standards. He pointed out that it was definitely too small to enable the astronomer to observe directly at what he referred to as the prime focus. I assume that that is the best focal setting or the best focal length. As a scientific instrument, he pointed out, a 150-inch reflector is clearly the very best buy. 
The honourable member for Fremantle has raised a question concerning the cost of the telescope. It is interesting to  compare  the estimate made by Professor Bok in 1963 with the present estimate. It is a tribute  to  him that, for such a complicated instrument as this, with the effluxion of time his estimate has been found to be very close to the present estimated cost. He estimated that it would cost us £A6m. Now we see that the cast is estimated to be $1lm. I think that  h  a particularly good estimate for something as sophisticated and complicated as  this  instrument. 
After the Australian National University Bill was introduced, the next thing that happened in relation to this telescope was the agreement in 1967. That was the agreement between the United Kingdom and the Australian Governments to build the 150 inch telescope. It was also decided at that time to build it at the Australian National University's observatory at Siding Spring 
Mountain. A joint policy committee was set up with a panel of particularly wellknown people. They included  Sir Richard  Woolley, to whom I referred a while ago, and Professor Fred Hoyle, Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at Cambridge University. They comprised the British side of the team. Other members were Professor Eggen, Director of the Mount Stromlo Observatory, and  Dr Bowen,  chief of the Radiophysics Division of the CSIRO. That distinguished panel was set up in 1967. It was pointed out by these people that the optimum site for this telescope was in the southern hemisphere. Its siting there would be of benefit in the study of the Milky Way and essential for the study of the Magellanic Clouds. Another reason for this siting was that if its location was too far north some of the advantage would be lost and if it was located too far to the south there would be too much interference from auroral intensity. 
It has been pointed out by scientists that obviously the best position for an optical telescope is on a space platform, away from atmospheric refraction and other forms of interference from the earth. The site we are talking about was chosen after very intensive investigation throughout the southern areas of Australia. One of the main factors taken into consideration was the absence of cloud cover. Under this measure we envisage the setting up of one of the largest optical telescopes in the world; it is certainly the largest in the southern hemisphere. It is exceeded in size only, as far as I know, by the Palomar 200 inch instrument in California. The proposed optical telescope will do tremendous work and will extend the already great range of knowledge which has come from our research in Australia. It will complement the work of radio telescopes and optical telescopes throughout the world, and particularly the 210 inch radio telescope at Parkes. That instrument was set up and went into operation in 1961. A lot was expected from it because of its great size. It was then about the biggest radio telescope in the world, although I think a bigger one has been built since. The Parkes telescope was designed to operate to very fine tolerances and it had the propensity for pinpoint focusing. That is what is was designed for and that is what was expected from it. With such things the plans often go astray, but in this particular case this world standard telescope achieved more than it was designed to do and far more than was expected of it. 
At this stage I should like to commend  Dr Bowen  for his work not only in this connection but also in radiophysics in Australia.  His  success has kept Australia in world class in radiophysics. I should also like to commend  Mr Bolton,  the man in charge of that great instrument, and his band of workers. One should not forget that in the building of the telescope at Siding Spring Mountain not only was the Federal Government involved but local government played a big role. The Warrumbungle Range is very old geologically. It is quite rugged and in parts inaccessible. The first step was to build roads. The Coonabarabran Shire Council did a magnificent job in putting roads through to enable the building work to commence. Provision of water had to be looked at, and one of the big problems was to provide electricity. The Ulan County Council did a good job. Apart from the rugged nature of the country, one of the problems was the importance of providing constant voltage at the site for the successful operation of this $1 Ira instrument. This has been achieved. 
I want to draw attention to 2 of the side effects which have come from the efforts in astronomy in this country. Firstly there has been quite a solid influence on decentralisation. We have the equipment at Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Mountain, which is a long way out; the Australian invention, Mills Cross, at Hoskinstown, and the interferometer at Narribri. 1 believe there is also a heliograph at Narrabri but I may be wrong. The CSIRO has quite a large establishment at St Marys. There is at Dapto a radio spectroscope. One of the reasons for setting up these projects in country areas was the absence of smog, which is common in our pattern of pollution today. The second important side effect that we should be very pleased about is in the scientific field. We have built this telescope and we are building a nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay. Before these events Australia experienced a great brain drain of young scientists. Our young doctors of philosophy qualified in astronomy, who in the past were limited in what they could do in this country, were being attracted to places overseas. The building of this world class telescope and the prospect of the new atomic reactor at Jervis Bay should have a profound and favourable effect on the brain drain amongst these young scientists and this will help Australia to maintain its position in astronomical research in the world. 
I not only support the Bill but warmly commend the Government for concluding an agreement with the United Kingdom for this $llm project. It will enable Australia to maintain its world position in astronomical research and it will also assist our radio astronomers to maintain their world lead in this branch of science. 
 During extensive travel of the electorate of Calare during the winter recess it became readily apparent that the 2 things which were concerning the minds of the people most were, firstly, the lack of maintenance of law and order and, secondly, the state of the rural economy. On the first subject I have made my representations directly to the Government. It is to the second subject, the state of the rural economy, that 1 will address my remarks in this Budget debate. I accept and support this Budget only because I accept the assurance categorically given by the Government that it is urgently examining wool growers' indebtedness and is at the present time trying to find the most effective ways of assisting farmers with their financial problems. lt was apparent from an answer given by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to a question asked by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in this House last week that he is quite aware of the effect of the present rural recession upon the business community in country areas. Because of that reply by the Treasurer I feel certain that he is looking at this latter problem in an effort to assist if at all possible. 
The decrease in personal income tax announced in the Budget fulfils an election promise. In fact it more than fulfils that promise, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Maranoa in his speech on the Budget today. There has been an increase in taxation in other fields. This has been necessitated, no doubt - we have to face it - by the need to find additional funds to pay increased amounts to the States as general revenue and the need for further large sums to meet the bill for education, health services and national welfare generally. 1 know that the Government has been exhorted by a wide field of the population to play its part in curbing inflation. We all know that deficit budgeting fosters inflation. I do not think the Government has ever received appropriate credit for budgeting for a balance or for a small surplus. The Government in this respect has played its part in curbing inflation. 
One of the major sources of pressure which is contantly with us in modern Australia is the migration programme. The Government believes, and I am quite sure that the great majority of Australian people believes, that our national birth rate is insufficient to give us a population close to the optimum, whatever that figure may prove to be. It will certainly be a long time before we reach that optimum figure. One beneficial effect of our past migration policies is that our home markets for both primary products and secondary goods in general have been significantly increased and 1 am quite sure that the man on the land realises this. One Minister has stated that these markets have increased by 20%, and this increase is not to be written down in its importance. We know that the home market is our best market nol only for our primary products but for our manufactured goods too. 
Although there will always be differences of opinion as to the intensity of the migration programme, there is general agreement in this country on the need for the programme. With a large number of migrants coming into the country every year there has been a great need for work to be found for them. Even when the rural sector of the economy is in good heart and flourishing there is not sufficient call from that source for labour, nor are the skills required for farm and station work in Australia readily available amongst the migrants who have come to this country. I have always supported the Government in the past in its policies arising from the fact that jobs must be found for migrants in the secondary and tertiary sectors. But of course vast industrial growth has been achieved only with the aid of protection for manufacturing industries. 1  have heard reference in the House to-day to the pressures on the provision of services - the millions of dollars required for education, the provision of water supply facilities, the National Health Bill and the provision of power, housing and many other like facilities for the migrants as they come in. These have accelerated a substantial lift in the general cost levels with which the farmer and grazier has to compete in his effort to produce foodstuffs and fibres which he has to sell to buyers outside our own economy. 
No one is asked to contemplate a future Australian community composed predominantly of farmers, nor can anyone be asked to accept the concept of a future Australia collecting its foreign exchange from the export of manufactured goods alone. I think we should not be content - there is no sign amongst thinking people of their being content - with another extreme position of an economy based on the frenzied export of the very ground beneath us in the form of mineral wealth. We know full well that for every  shovelfull  of mineral ore that comes out of the land a vacuum is left. At least the man engaged in primary industry knows that if he does not replenish the original soil he soon goes down. I think that the farmer is doing mighty little to accelerate the rush but between us all we have turned this country into what might be termed a 'high cost country'. The Australian farmer and grazier with his world acknowledged efficiency - not always acknowledged in Australia - can still look after himself and compete in world trade if he can produce on some real basis rather than on the present kind of hothouse engendered cost basis. 
At this point I should like to recall to the House the threat to the very existence of large sections of Australian primary industry as depicted in the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  to the House last week on the consequences for Australian trade of British entry to the European Economic Community. 
And we are still warning. Our high cost structure makes both primary and secondary commodities difficult to sell overseas for the purpose of gaining export income. I say that we should let them both compete from a far more equitable starting point. I know that in the long run we will never assist primary industry by trying to wreck secondary or manufacturing industry which has proved to be successful, but if our policies of protection have provided an unequal opportunity in export markets favouring secondary industry then those policies should be reviewed, not so much as to principle as to degree. There has been agitation and we have heard talk of wage levels and a member of the Opposition asked us to give a friendly hand in lifting wages. I say that you cannot look at the wage level as a cost factor in isolation. The wage level must be balanced against production per man hour or per machine hour. That is the criterion. That is the method which will give us a truer guide to results. 
When considering all the demands being made every day for more pay and less work it appears to me to be necessary to remind honourable members that all wealth comes from production. You have to produce it before you can divide it. The cost pressures to which I have referred do not apply only to one sector of the community; they apply to all export industries whether primary or secondary. Over the years the Government, by what it termed compensating policies, has done a tremendous job in counteracting the pressures which have built up. I think that now is an opportune time to remind people of the various features of those compensating policies. In the field of taxation there were concessions, depreciation allowances, investment allowances, zone allowances, sales tax exemptions, various forms of deductions as applying to primary industry, estate duty relief, the averaging provisions, and provisions relating to the carrying forward of losses and the treatment of forced sales. Then there have been bounties and subsidies on superphosphate, nitrogenous fertilisers, dairy products, cotton and on tractors. In addition there was the scheme for the equalisation of petrol prices. All of those things are part of the compensating policies which the Government has implemented over the years to try to level the balance. 
Millions of dollars have been spent in research, extension and marketing stabilisation schemes as well as on various forms  of drought assistance, the construction of beef roads, the brigalow land development scheme and so on. In the field of trade there have been commodity arrangements, trade agreements and the building Up of the Trade Commissioner Service. But even before this year's disastrous crash in world wool prices it was seen that the funds allocated in their millions for the implementation of the Government's compensating policies were not closing the gap and that the primary producer was existing only because of his ability to build up his own efficiency over the years and to turn out more saleable produce. But the odds, as we see now as a result of the drastic wool prices, are too heavily against him.  The whole thing has come to a head. The primary producer has responded - magnificently, I think - to the continued calls from experts of all kinds, and plenty of pseudo experts, for increased production. Primary producers are entitled to ask just how much longer they can be expected to continue their efforts without being allowed to retain a larger share of the product of their labours. 
I think we have to get back to the concept of the fruits of productive labour, in whatever industry is concerned, going to the maximum extent to those who produce them. Despite the extent of the complementary policies that I enumerated in a small way a moment ago, the gap has not been bridged and we have reached the position in which not even the provisions of an extraordinary Budget, as this one is, with a 55% increase in provisions for rural industry can close the gap. So the Treasurer in his Budget Speech announced a completely new principle which seems to have been lost sight of by a lot of those who rushed in quickly with their criticism of the Budget. The Government has undertaken to examine immediately the matter of the indebtedness of wool growers. I feel sure that the Government is working on it now. The Government will consider ways in which it can most effectively help farmers restructure their debts. Whatever attack we make on this problem we will need not only to hold the present position but also to eliminate increases in costs and to make a concerted drive towards a reduction in costs. After fully acquainting myself with the position of primary industry in my own electorate in particular, and in Aus tralia in general, and after studying the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry last week on the Common Market, the conclusion which I do not seem to be able to escape- -I do not want to sound too much like the prophet Jeremiah - is that there are rough times ahead for Australia. I said: 'For Australia', but the first impact falls as it so often does on the primary industries. This will be only the beginning. If present treads and agitations continue - and apparently only adversity and tough times will stop them - the high cost factor will dampen down still further Australia's ability to export progressively more costly manufactured goods to progressively shrinking markets eaten away by the impending growth of influence of the European Economic Community. 
In the speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry, I think he estimated that eventually up to 70 countries would be influenced to some degree by that group. We all know that there is no future for any country - I include this country - if it fails to earn sufficient foreign exchange. If, as I said, there are troublous times ahead Australian industry as a whole should bear the weight. In all equity and in all fairness the primary industries should not be left to take the full onslaught. Even if we allow for the $30m assistance to wool growers provided in the Budget and all the other provisions such as the devaluation payments, payments for research, promotion and so on, and even if we assume that the impending legislation will have the effect of satisfactorily restructuring the farmers' debt - whatever that means - and of streamlining marketing procedures and the handling of produce, I think we have only reached a position where a reduced number of farmers will still hold an equity in their properties and remain on them ready to produce and ready to do business. I am quite sure from observation that some commercial enterprises which rely on the prosperity of the rural producer will already have been squeezed out by the time the restructuring takes effect. 
The Australian farmer, despite his efficiency - I am speaking quite generally - will still not be in a position to compete in export markets with our present cost position. I say this after hearing, reading and re-reading the statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry. I think that the Australian public should not underestimate the effect of a collapse of the rural employment situation on both the country and the city. I think that the farm machinery industry is an example of what will come. Not only have skilled workers been retrenched in the country areas and not only have many of these skilled workers gone to compete on the employment market in the city but we also now see skilled operatives put off in their hundreds by major farm implement manufacturers in industrial areas. There is no short term prospect of them coming back into the industry. 
I would like to mention here the results of a survey. I mention this only because I know the man who was responsible for collating the material and because I know the circumstances .in which it was collected. It relates to the town of Forbes. It is a typical wheat-sheep town in the Lachlan Valley with a population of between  7,800  and  7,900.  These figures have already been made public so I can use them here. In the machinery and car sales field, sales of new farm machinery for the first 6 months of this year compared with the first 6 months of last year were down by  58%.  The gross profits from sales of farm machinery were down by  73%.  As honourable members know, if there is not much new machinery being sold normally more spare parts will be sold, but even sales of spare parts were down by  24%.  Net profits for the first 6 months of this year as against last year were down by  47%  and total car sales were down by  25%.  Figures supplied by the New South Wales Department of Government Transport show that over the last  5  years the average number of registrations in the town was  40  units a month. In the first 6 months of this year it was down to  27  units a month. In May the figure was  18,  in June  20  and in July  18  against the average of  40.  I know that the general stores are carrying tremendous sums in book debts. I will not mention them here. These stores in the country have always done this and they have played a remarkable part in the development of the country. Of course, the banks are calling on them for a reduction of their overdrafts too. I know that there are good regular payers in these areas who are now unable to meet their payments and in Forbes they are going to the Rural Reconstruction Board at the rate of  10  to  15  a month. 
The Mayor of Parkes, which is a bigger town with a population of about  8,500,  points out that it is a large farm machinery distribution centre and yet sales are down there by up to  75%.  There is a serious retrenchment of skilled personnel in that town. The building industry is slowing down and this, of course, accelerates the drift to the city. Honourable members should not fall for the trap of looking at the unemployment figures in a country town because as soon as a man loses his job there he leaves. He has to go because there is nothing else for him to do. This is the position in the Lachlan Valley, which had a drought a few years ago but seasonally is not badly off. Its poor position arises  from  circumstances in the economy. If this is the position in the Lachlan Valley just what must the business sectors of towns and provincial cities in a drought area in Queensland look like? 
Much is being said nowadays both inside and outside the Parliament about restructuring the primary industries and I want to make one or two comments on this subject. The term 'restructuring of debts' is used but nobody knows the details of this and just what it will mean. Whatever it means, at the best it will provide answers for only some of the people engaged in primary industries and the effects will not be seen quickly. The dairy industry reconstruction plan applying to the Commonwealth and Western Australia is not long on the statute book. There is already a call for something similar to apply to other primary industries. I have heard this call from some people engaged in both the wheat and the wool industries, and the harder hit the area is the more one hears the call. But I take it that the aim is to work towards a size of property which will permit of the optimum output being obtained from an accepted unit of land, plant and machinery. A lot of use is made of the catch phrase: 'Get big or get out'. To my mind, nothing could be sillier. I have never used the term myself and I do not think that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  to whom this is credited by some people, has ever used it either. I think we will find that it is now coming from the economists. 
Anyone who has a reasonable knowledge of rural affairs will quickly bring to mind a number of properties, particularly big properties, in the medium and high rainfall areas which would be a lot more efficient if they were broken down in size still further. Of course, some properties are too small for a living area. We know that. There are a number of factors which govern the size of a living area. They include climate, rainfall, the type of land and the type of production most appropriate to it. I am sure that the amount of labour involved has a very direct bearing on this optimum size because it is one of our greatest problems in the country, ft would be hard to find, in my estimation, a more efficient working group than the single family unit. The Australian Government - whichever government it is - should be warned against any precipitate move which would make it harder for the family unit to continue as the traditional, efficient labour unit in the pastoral and agricultural industries. 
The point of view expressed in the interjection coincides with that of  Mr Hawke,  and the further  Mr Hawke  proceeds with some of the things he is doing the more my warning will apply. There is quite an amount of talk about long term finance at low rates of interest and I support this objective quite solidly. But for many this will not be enough even to persuade them to start again. I think of the people in Queensland because I feel it is the people in such places who have been hardest hit. Their efforts over the years have helped to put Australia into its present position. What about those who through continuing drought have no income earning asset left except property in the form of a dustbowl. These people will need to be offered a standstill on loan and interest repayments. It will be impossible otherwise for them to service their debts. 
The provision of long term finance and the fixing of low interest rates when the finance comes from the Government requires only the will of the Parliament to legislate for it. This sort of finance cannot be expected to come from the private banking sector without Government backing in the form of interest subsidisation. So the task is ahead on all the fronts on which the Government has been fighting. The task is to develop not only our home markets and our export markets but also to proceed with our compensation payments and to carry out the job that we undertook to carry out in the Budget. That job is to look actively at the whole question of the indebtedness of the rural community. As well as the measures included in the Budget, as well as the further financial assistance promised in the Budget and with all the reconstruction that we have promised for primary industry, primary industry itself and the Government must strive not only to hold costs at their present level but to reduce them. 
I support the Budget, particularly as lt plans for a small surplus. This is a Budget which has been compiled by the Treasury at a most difficult time in Australia's economic history. I reject the amendment. I look forward to endeavouring to assist the Government to formulate in detail the further policies promised in the Budget Speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member will not continue speaking after drawing attention to the state of the House. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board has stated that 2 substantial sales of wheat have been made to the United Arab Republic. Will the Minister tell the House the terms on which these sales were made? What effect will these shipments have on carry-over stocks? Will the same terms and conditions apply to shipments against the 3-year agreement with the United Arab Republic? 
I do nol intend to follow the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  into the realms of international relations, strategy and tactics. I prefer to listen to those who devote their lives to the expert study of these problems. As we debate the estimates for the Department of Defence we know that Australian men and women at this time are serving in a very commendable manner in areas not only within Australia but also outside Australia. Their contribution in terms of manpower is beyond question. They have drawn praise not only from our allies but from people all over the world. There can be no question as to the contribution that they are making to the allied cause. When it comes to Australia's financial contribution, we are now debating the estimates which show that there has been an increase in defence expenditure of $34m in the last year, or a 3.1 per cent increase over the previous year, bringing it to a total of $1,1 37m for this financial year. That is about $2,500,000 for every day of the year in a country of 12i million people. This represents 14.4 per cent of the total expenditure for the year. This, notwithstanding the statement in the Budget that it will be next financial year before we feel the full impact of expenditure on the major capital equipment projects for the Services which were announced not only in the Budget last year but in the speech of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in March. 
In the little time 1 have I would like to say something about the question of manpower. Several points stand out, and I hope I can see them in perspective. It is true that the planned strengths for the various Services were not achieved. The Navy implemented its new system - the taste and try scheme, as they call it. Out of a batch of 531 enlistments, at the end of a specified period of 64 days after which they could make an election to slay. 47 elected not to do so. This is a figure of very nearly 9 per cent. Surely this must point to the fact that it is not only money that is at the bottom of these problems, because 64 days previously they must have had a fairly good idea of what the financial side was. 
I refer now to the Army and the National Servicemen. The Defence Report states: 
The  National  Serviceman continues to be a valuable source of manpower without which it would be impossible to meet our commitments. 
There, coming from those who are responsible for the correct functioning of the Services, is a statement which I think has a great bearing on our situation today, lt is impossible to meet our commitments without the national servicemen. They are essential. In the Royal Australian Air Force there was a very small decrease of 70 down to 22,642. Looking at this in its true perspective, I think it is not the end of the world. I think it is a matter which has been over-emphasised by the Opposition. Truly this Government is not underestimating the position. It is treating it as serious, and action is being taken. I have just read a paragraph from the Defence Report which throws a very good light on this problem. The level of recruitment, the rate of engagement, the extent of officer wastage have all caused concern. But it must be recognised that the Services are competing for manpower at a time of full employment in a community where civilian opportunities both for potential recruits and experienced serving personnel are considerable. These are the kinds of problems which the new committee announced last week is to look into. The committee will be under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kerr, and it will undoubtedly be referred to as the Kerr Committee. This is the type of problem that it will need to consider. I have mentioned the background against which the committee will have to operate. 
There has been a growth in the strength of the Australian forces and there has been a growth in efficiency. May I refer specifically to the citizen forces. I have some comments and suggestions to make. If a member of the citizen forces picked up the Defence Report, which is a public document, and read it he would have to be pardoned for feeling that he is not being made out to be a very important cog in the machine. There is very little space allotted in the Defence Report to the citizen forces. I doubt whether out of the whole 63 pages of the report the references would fill up one column. I feel that this is unfortunate. 
In the Citizen Naval Forces there are 1,245 officers and 3,074 sailors. In the Defence Report we read that members of the Naval Reserve Forces, the main training component of the CNF, have continued to make good use of the support" craft attached to their training establishments. Reference Ls made also to periods of training carried out with the Fleet. No further mention is made of this important arm of the Navy of which the officers total 1,245. No indication is given of its establishment or of any recruiting target. Apparently no undue problems have occurred in this area. 
In the Citizen Military Forces, we find that the actual strength at 30th June 1970 was 31,397 compared with a target level of 36,000. That figure is again being set as the target for this financial year. I point out that this 'actual strength' figure is the lowest figure for 5 years. In the Civilian Air Force we find fewer personnel than in any  other arm of the Services. The strength decreased by 66 during the last financial year to 841. I cannot pick up any reference in the Defence Report to requirements concerning organisation, role or establishment. The problems in relation to the citizen forces in our Services must be dealt with. The forces must be upgraded in the next financial year. 
In the short time left to me, I wish to make a suggestion relating both to our permanent military forces and our citizen military forces. I make this suggestion having considered several factors. First, General Brogan, the General Officer commanding Eastern Command, drew attention in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of 9th September to the pressures from the public and from politicians - we have heard remarks of this type in this Committee and I think that they are quite justified - for the moving of military establishments from housing development sites, etc. I believe that these remarks refer to such places as Middle Head, South Head and Holsworthy in Sydney and similar establishments in other capital cities. The suggestion put is that training areas remote enough from the community so as not to offend the public should be provided. These areas should not be isolated completely because soldiers and their families should not be denied certain necessary facilities. This proviso is readily understandable. One thinks automatically of educational facilities, medical facilities and access to some of the better things of life, including drama and the arts, and contact with different people away from barrack areas and so on. I suggest that this type of movement should be considered deeply at this time and that action could proceed very quickly. I think that there are many provincial cities and large towns, where isolation is not complete, in which service personnel would be thoroughly welcome. 
I make a. second suggestion. As training grounds and accommodation are moved to the less thickly populated areas, a corresponding move in Citizen Military Forces headquarters should occur. Ideally, movements into country areas should be to the level of regiment or battalion. One of the main reasons I advance in support of my argument is that the recruiting rate for the CMF is better in the country than it is in city areas. I think that this fact is proven. The special battalions to cater for CMF trainees, which have been set up under this Government, for trainees of national service age, because of the circumstances of seasonal employment predominantly are made up of recruits from the country. That is my second reason on that point. 
In conclusion, I make 3 points. I look to the finding" of the Kerr Committee to show the way to the solution of some of the manpower difficulties in our Services. Secondly, I hope that the interest displayed by the Minister for Defence in his March ministerial statement dealing with the CMF is translated into action and that we see the result of this action in the next Defence Report. Finally, I urge that action be taken to transfer some headquarters, some establishments, some training areas and some personnel inland away from congested areas to points close to a number of people, who, I know from experience, will welcome service personnel as they have in the past and in previous periods of war. 
At the outset 1 wish to dissociate myself from the contention of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who laid the blame for the present parlous position of the wool industry, as I understand him, on the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Board. I am quite sure that the great majority of wool growers appreciate that the principal cause of their predicament is the disastrous world price of wool combined with the high cost structure under which they are forced to operate today. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  said something which I must take up. If 1 remember his words correctly, he said that the Government exhorted the farmers: 'Grow as much wheat as you like, boys, and we will pay you $1.10 a bushel'. That statement cannot fairly be attributed to this Government. He also used a rather grating term, in this situation. He spoke of holding the buyers to ransom. The last thing that the industry or the Government wants to do through this Bill is to operate in terms of holding buyers to ransom. If that is the approach. I think we will be in for a great deal of trouble with this scheme. 
The Bill is not designed to enter the field of farm restructuring, but that is a most important base from which to work in reconstructing the industry in the future. In supporting this Bill I know that I am reflecting the views of the great majority of the wool growers I represent. It is only in comparatively recent times that any representative of the wool areas could make that claim. But there are still many retentionists and conservatives who want to retain the existing system of marketing, despite the calamitous depths to which wool prices have fallen. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that they have been forced to those low levels. 
It is a matter of historical fact that the wool houses have resisted any change to a reserve price scheme or to a similar scheme which might enable the producers to take any action resembling placing a price on their own product. I command the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for so clearly setting out the recent history of events leading up to the introduction of this Bill. It is only in the last few months that it has become plain that a clear majority of growers favour changes of the type set out in this measure. In fact, many will hold that it does not go far enough. 
The great wool industry involves the lives and economic activities of a great number of people as well as a very substantial financial investment. It has always been the policy of this Liberal and Country Party Government that if the wool industry elects to change its marketing arrangements, the Government is ready to legislate for the change providing that it considers such a change to be in the interests of the Australian community. That is the view of the Government of this legislation. That policy has attracted criticism of the Government and its supporters even in this chamber tonight. That criticism has come particularly from those people who have been anxious for change for a long time. There has been criticism from left and right of the procrastination which has occurred. I think that we in the Government Parties regard this as being one of the hazards of office. The policy has been to wait for a majority opinion. That is it in a nutshell. I have supported that policy. I have taken my share of criticism for it. I will continue to support it. We legislate according to the wishes of the industry. 
It has been said that the decision now is a unanimous one. It is not a unanimous one. But it comes in my opinion from a very readily discernable majority in the wool industry right throughout the Commonwealth. We know that in the past Australia has had a very long tradition of selling its main export commodity on the open market, lt has had the tradition of selling it under the auction system. I say therefore that this system cannot be altered lightly. This is the thing which has concerned the Government in the past. 
But, over the years, despite what I have heard just recently, certain practices have crept into the auction system which have upset the system and almost negated the system. Whether we argue about it here or not, 1 know that this is the general contention amongst woolgrowers. They have made up their minds on the merits of the auction system. Whether this change has resulted in something called pie buying, lot splitting or cartel influence, there is no doubt that we are in a period of organised buying. I think that the logical answer to organised buying is organised selling, provided a rigid sense of responsibility is employed by the new Commission. Surely organised selling in the wool industry today is justified and surely it must pay off where no world stockpile of the commodity being sold has been permitted to be built up and where the commodity being sold still has a number of highly desirable characteristics which the greatest scientific brains in the world cannot duplicate. 
We can almost anticipate the criticism that no mathematical proof in figures or no material proof that the work of the new Commission will be of benefit is available. Now, this is true. I think that it would be injudicious, to say the least, to forecast the result with any claim to accuracy. Many contingencies are involved. We can all see them readily. We can see some of them. They just cannot all be foreseen. But it appears logical to me that if the use of the daily reserve price principle is followed according to my understanding of the Bill, that price can be changed more than once daily - it must result in the elimination of the drastic and, in many cases, the unexplained peaks and troughs which, when applied to individual cases, very often mean the difference between profit and loss. The new selling methods will go into operation as soon as possible after the Bill receives the royal assent. 
It will be remarkable indeed, as previous speakers have said, if changes are not necessary from time to time as experience dictates. The Government and the industry now must get on with the job, in my opinion, of solving the acute problem of rural indebtedness. This is all part of the one great problem. It is excellent to know that the nationwide survey of rural debts has been running under the guidance of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who is at the table, in accordance with the promise given by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget speech of August last. It has been running concurrently in the Department - it has not waited for this work to be completed - with this tremendous job of negotiation in the first instance and preparation of this wool legislation. I am led to believe that the survey is nearing completion. After that comes the major task of solution and the legislation to bring it along. 
Despite the uninformed criticism which has been levelled at the Government and at the Minister personally, I commend htm for his outstanding efforts in the interests of the woolgrower in, first of all, fostering industry agreement, which was no small task and, secondly, in the near to impossible task which he has accomplished successfully of getting this legislation into this House at this time. A subject of this nature, affecting the lives of so many people in the wool industry with such a major investment in this country, almost demands that I take every minute of the time available to me to speak to it. However there are still a number of speakers to follow me in this debate. One of them is the  Chairman  of the Government Members Wool Committee. He and the Committee also should be commended for the assistance they have given to the Minister and to the Parliament. I support the Bill and I again congratulate the Minister. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House of the outcome of the first National Agricultural Outlook Conference which was organised by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of his Department and held at the Australian National University last week? 
i direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In the present economic climate of Australia, when governments and industry are looking for ways to cut costs and effect economies, what progress is being made: in the launching of the Bureau of Transport Economics with which the Government plans to analyse the economics of transport in Australia? 
The '.Minister for Shipping and Transport will, recall that in mid- 1 970, some time after the, fire on the tanker Amanda Miller', the Commonwealth Fire Board visited the Whyalla. Shipbuilding and Engineering Works as part of an Australiawide investigation of existing and proposed fire fighting facilities. Has the Minister received the Board's - report and is he satisfied that ships being built under the Australian shipbuilding subsidy, scheme are adequately protected against fire during construction? 
I address my question to the Minister for Education and Science. In the last annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation it was stated that the Federal Cabinet had approved an agreement between the CSIRO and the Australian Wheat Board to establish a laboratory for research into grain storage problems. In view of the large stocks of wheat currently being held in Australia - coupled with increasingly high standards set by overseas buyers concerning chemical residues from pesticides and weevil infestation - when is it expected that this research laboratory will be completed? Has the Stored Grains Research Liaison Committee been formed? 
In addressing a question to the Minister for Primary Industry 1 refer to a fairly recent meeting of rep  resentatives of the meat industry in Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America which was held in Denver, Colorado, to discuss plans to promote and expand the market for lamb in the United States. What was the outcome of the meeting? Can the Government see any way in which it can help the fat lamb industry in its export activity? 
My question is to the Prime Minister. When considering the grant of aid to newly developing countries, has the Government attempted to persuade those countries that assistance could be given by Australia in the form of wool processing plant and machinery, technical aid in its installation, use and maintenance, and, perhaps, some early supplies of wool in order to assist the donee countries towards their industrial development objectives and to build up subsequent trade between those countries and Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister for the Interior. I have asked questions in this chamber on previous occasions about pressure from the United Arab Republic upon the Imperial War Graves Commission to have removed from the city of Alexandria British war cemeteries in which many Australian servicemen lie. Has this pressure ceased? If not, what stage have the negotiations reached? 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. When the report on cherries was tabled in the House the Minister for Customs and Excise indicated that the Government had accepted the report in the light of the Board's view that there are alternative new markets for local brined cherries and that the Government would maintain a close watch on the market situation during 1971. He said that the question of protection of the cherry industry would be reconsidered urgently if such alternative markets were not found. Can the Minister indicate what the close watch of the market situation has revealed to date and whether the evidence he has would lead to a reconsideration of the protective needs of the cherry industry? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare- chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  spoke during the Budget debate last week he referred to those who relished playing the role of prophets of gloom. I gave some thought to whom he was referring and I think, with all kindness to the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  that we have found one. One, of course, has an interest in the future of the Australian nation as a complete entity, but in the time allotted to me I would like to deal with the Budget measures applying to the rural industries and the control of inflation. 
In a country such as Australia where the annual Budget is used so predominantly to control both the direction and the rate of growth of the national economy, it is a most delicate operation to frame a Budget which will achieve just that purpose. The proper rate of increase in demand in a growing population is required to keep up economic growth - and importantly to maintain full employment of labour, which up to the present time has provided this Government with a tremendous record. At the same time the Budget must refrain from encouraging further cost increases with resultant higher prices. It is almost impossible to specify correctly all the causes of the cost and price inflation which exists in Australia at present. 
Again, it is practically impossible to apportion correctly the degree to which each separate cause contributes to the end result. But it is all too clear that cost and price inflation is now running high. This is seen in the fact that in the last financial year the average weekly earnings rose by over 10 per cent compared with 8.9 per cent in the previous year. The consumer price index rose by 4.8 per cent as against 3.2 per cent the previous year and by the last June quarter the rate of increase in prices was over 6 per cent. 
What is certain in my mind is that the effects of inflation fall heaviest on 2 groups of people. The first group comprises that growing number of the population who are on a fixed income. I refer mostly to those people who rely on superannuation and life savings in the form of bank deposits or insurances, to people on pensions and to people who rely on investments of principal at fixed interest rates. The second group comprises those people who, irrespective of the economic climate in which they produce their goods for sale, must take for their produce a price over which they themselves have no control; a price which the buyer elects to pay. Of course, this second group is made up largely of primary producers, and their state of prosperity has a very direct bearing on the trades, professions and services which depend on the primary producers for their standard of living. 
But there is another growing section of the economic community in this group, and that is the manufacturer who depends on the export market for disposal of the bulk of his goods, or all of his goods, just as the primary producer does. The amount of manufactured goods being sold overseas ls growing, and it must be encouraged to grow; and as the total grows 1 see help at hand for the primary producing communities. In the parliaments of the land - and I refer to all parliaments - it is only too well known that the representatives of the primary producer are outnumbered. But as exports of manufactured goods continue to expand there will be a gradual increase in the number of parliamentary representatives who will represent more and more export income earning capacity within their areas. As no country can survive for long without trading internationally, surely this expansion of a trading potential in manufactured goods will lead to the breakdown or the blurring of the line which has existed during Australian history between the primary producer and the manufacturer, and to the blurring of the distinct picture of exports dominated by primary produce, and imports substantially made up of manufactured goods, partly manufactured goods and raw materials for manufacture. Surely this must lead to greater attention being given by both management and labour to the relationship between wages, salaries and conditions, on the one hand, and productivity, on the other hand. 
One cannot tell primary producers, as a body, much about this factor because they have had to contend with it for all their working lives. Before the great trade drives of the 1960s when manufacturers depended largely on the home market, costs were loaded on to prices with comparative ease, and with success. But with open competition on international markets continuing to develop and with competition against cheap labour countries, as we have heard today in replies to questions, the manufacturing industries - again management and labour alike - will have to follow the economic  path  which the primary producer knows so well - the one demanding a constant watch on the relationship between cost and productivity. We know that the primary producer has done this and, as 1 often have said in this House previously, he has done it so well over the years that he is an acknowledged world leader in efficiency. In fact, it was only efficiency and expanding production which have allowed the primary producer to offset rising costs, particularly over the last 10 to 15 years. One of the effects of that, which we see in our statistics, is that there has been a 30 per cent increase in capital investment in rural industries in that period. Low world prices for some primary produce and unfavourable climatic conditions, particularly in States such as Queensland, coupled with cost price inflation, have once again led to a marked recession in rural areas. 
At this stage I should like to refer to the Budget speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  last week, which I thought, when it is studied, gave an excellent answer to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He referred to sustained economic growth, particularly to a 30 per cent growth in the work force over the last 10 years; to, increased national reserves, which I think , are now at a record level; to full employment; and to an economy with enormous and exciting potentialities for future growth. As a representative of a primary producing area I was disappointed that in that speech there was only one phase which referred to rural industries. The Prime Minister spoke in general about assistance to rural industries, in a speech which lasted 26 minutes. I know that all subjects cannot be covered in one speech, but I think that rural industries rated a little more mention than that. 1 took note of 2 references towards the end of the Prime Minister's speech. He said: 
There are some people who seem blind to our economic progress, and the real nature of our problems. They relish playing the role of prophets of gloom. 
Further on he said: 
People who talk in this way seem to be mesmerised by the immediate problems of the day. 
I am sure that that remark was directed at the Opposition and at the knockers in our community generally. I am not blind to the magnificent progress of Australia in many fields. T am not blind to the real nature of rural problems, either. There is a difference between being a prophet of gloom and putting forward hard, cold, unembellished facts concerning the economic problems of the people whom one represents. If I am mesmerised by these immediate problems, I think I can still distinguish between the every day parochial problems of a section of the community and the present problems of the rural community as a whole, which, if they are not corrected, will turn into a first class national economic smash, and a social smash as well. 
I refer here, for instance, to the reasons which brought to Canberra last week a deputation from the central west and west of New South Wales. It comprises busy men, and men connected with local government, from 4 electorates: Calare, Darling, Gwydir and Riverina. All of them are facing the same problems. They referred to deficiency payments for wool; to the 'rural crisis' - and I am using their words; and to the need for the provision of more funds for the rural reconstruction scheme, for long term finance, for rehabilitation, for assistance to local government for the relief of unemployed persons in their areas, and for assistance with rating, tariff, freight and inflation. These were the matters about which the deputation came to Canberra to speak. Unemployment exists; it is not yet big in rural areas, but it does not have to be big in country towns to have a substantial effect on the economy of those towns. That is the backdrop against which this Budget has been framed. 
So at the one time this 1971 Budget is stepping up the Government's long established practice of providing compensation payments for primary producers and is adopting or continuing practices which are designed to minimise growth in cost and price inflation. Make no mistake: There has been a great lift in assistance to rural industry. I think that enough assistance has been provided to indicate that the Government recognises the very serious difficulties which face primary industry. In the wool industry there is continued support of the Australian Wool Commission and its own price averaging plan. There is the provisio of deficiency payments, which, was a most significant decision. They will have favourable effects not only on the wool growers but also on country towns in general and on all who make up the rural community. As one who exerted all the pressure he could and who expressed all the thought he could before the Budget was for mulated, I congratulate the Government on this move which will provide not only economic assistance but also some relief in terms of time to primary industry. 
I can go on and refer to rural industry in general without going into great detail. An amount of $40m has been provided for rural reconstruction and an amount of $10m, which is not a large amount, for the Australian Development Bank to be used for farm build up purposes. There has been a continuation of the provision of super phosphate subsidies and of assistance to the dairy industry. Legislation concerning the apple and pear industry has been promised. All in all, the Budget provides S275m for rural industries, which I think is 32 per cent more than was provided last year. 
Returning to the primary producer, the position for him is very different this time. He has found himself in this position on several occasions previously, lt is almost inevitable that there will be peaks and troughs in the level of rural prosperity. But the difference this time is that on previous occasions the primary producer has had the rest of the community following up and down in the peaks and troughs of prosperity with him. The reason for that was that the total national economy was so dominated by the return from rural exports. But now we have what some people term a split level economy with the primary producer and that large group on fixed incomes in straitened circumstances and, generally speaking, the remainder of the community doing very nicely. Most secondary industries are working at full pressure. There appear to be ample markets. There is difficulty in maintaining a steady and experienced work force. Tertiary industry and the services are absorbing all the labour which is available to them. 
The anti-inflationary measures which are introduced in this Budget commence with the act of budgeting for a bigger surplus than last year. This year the surplus will be $630m. Public authority spending has been restricted. The emphasis here has been to try to curb demand inflation. Departmental spending has been pruned. The projected longer term planning of departmental estimates is a most beneficial move. In raising revenue the income tax field has been used rather than sales tax. Indirect taxes have been avoided and this, of course, is to prevent their being just another addition to the consumer price index. The Government is to limit the growth in the number employed full time under the Public Service Act. All these measures are anti-inflationary and all have been made public but some of the critics seem to have forgotten them. 
Outside the Budget, but very' appropriate to any discussion of measures to combat inflation, the Government is reviewing the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act in an effort to find the means of giving economic considerations more weight in arbitration cases. Those were the Treasurer's own words. This is not aimed at any section of the community and it is certainly not aimed at the wage earner because what body in the community is more affected by economic considerations. It is the wage earner just as much as management and the investor for whom continued provision of job opportunities in a sound economic community is so vital. While speaking of Government measures to combat costs and prices it is as well to recall the Government's announcement of an impending major review of tariff levels to be carried out by the Tariff Board. There is reason to believe that when this review is completed lower levels of protection in most instances will apply. But for the beleagured primary producer who not only needs relief from cost pressures but needs them urgently, the results from a tariff review are, in my opinion, bound to be slow. I cannot see what can be done about this at the moment but I draw attention to the fact that in the recently introduced Tariff Board Bill there is provision for another member to be appointed to the Board as well as provision for the use of one member Boards. So it is apparent that the Government and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  are aware of the need to do all possible to assist the Tariff Board to expedite its review. 
I have referred to the relief to the wool industry through the deficiency payment scheme. The wool industry in its newly found cohesion and solidarity will realise that this deficiency payment is not a full answer at all. It has been approved for only 12 months anyway and it is only part of the answer. The industry must reta.n its cohesion so that its leaders can devote every effort to making the necessary changes or the changes which it is hoped will open the required gap between the cost of production on the one hand and the prices received on the other, and to making these changes in the time which can be secured for the industry by those in this Parliament who are battling for the industry. Despite' the millions of dollars which this Government provides for rural industries in this Budget, such as $40m for rural reconstruction and $10m through the Development Bank for farm build up, the long term credit arrangements for the man on the land are not solved. I know the Government is working actively on this scheme through the Rural Loans Insurance Corporation but it appears that at this time it is not a goer. The Government cannot wait much longer on this. If nothing is available through traditional lending channels the Government must come in through its own lending authority. We hear talk of a mortgage bank and this type of thing but I fee] there are enough instrumentalities already. For instance there is the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. What is needed is a policy direction and capital. 
If the rural industries continue on their present trend without further sustained effort to provide the remedy required the position will right itself, but the process will be painful and destructive to many. It will right itself the hard way. We must surely have passed the point in commercial and human relations where we can tolerate drastic and explosive solutions to economic problems. Our current problem concerns Australia's greatest export earner. Management and labour seem to be squarely confronted and the bard line appears to be predominant. Surely there, should be more effort towards conciliation in the nation's interest. It will mean moderation on the part of industrial forces. It will call for the exercise of tolerance, reason and understanding on ali sides. I call for these things before it is too late for this nation. I support the Budget proposals. . 
I rise at this stage because it appears to me that a great deal of the debate on this Bill denotes a very determined effort on the part of many honourable members to shake themselves clear of major capital works which will provide a second primary airport to serve Sydney and also to take international aircraft. I have the authority of leading citizens in towns such as Parkes and Orange to make very clear to the Parliament that if the second airport is not wanted in Sydney they are very willing to have it located in their areas. There are in these areas airports which were used for training purposes during the last World War. They are first class airports of the primary type right at this time. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. Whereasthe Postmaster-General in a statement to Parliament has decreed that the telecommunication divisions of Parkes, Bathurst and Dubbo (with minor alteration) are to be amalgamated in one area, we, the citizens of the community of Parkes, respectfully submit that: 
If the present staff employed in the telecommunication division in Parkes is transferred from this town, grievous harm will result to this community, inasmuch as the removal of any personnel from the Parkes area will further depress the already straitened circumstances in this town. 
The resultant loss of spending power due to the removal of families from Parkes will result in a progressive reduction in the work force in service industries and commerce enforcing a movement of more people to the already over-crowded cities. 
The removal of staff from Parkes is in direct conflict with the stated policies of the Commonwealth Department of National Development and the State Department of Decentralisation and Industrial Development 
The movement of these people will further increase the already, over-taxed demand for services in the cities, leaving redundant existing services established in Parkes. 
The destruction of balanced employment and job opportunities for Higher School Certificate holders will eventually result in the enforced loss of many of the community's potential leadens. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That Parliament take note of the evil effects of the closing of a divisional office in Parkes, and 
That Parliament appoint Parkes to be the headquarters of the area above. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. Whereas the Postmaster-General in a statement to Parliament has decreed that, the telecommunication division of Parkes, Bathurst and Dubbo (with minor alteration) are to be amalgamated in one area, we the citizens of the community of Parkes respectfully submit that: 
if the present staff employed in the telecommunication division in Parkes is transferred from this town grievous harm will result to this community. In as much as the removal of any personnel from the Parkes area will further depress the already straitened circumstances in this town. 
The resultant loss of spending power due to the removal of families from Parkes will result in a progressive reduction in work force in service industries, commerce enforcing a movement of more people to the already overcrowded cities. 
The removal of staff from Parkes is in direct conflict with the stated policies of the Commonwealth Department of National Development and the State Department of Decentralisation and Industrial Development. 
The movement of these people will further increase the already over-taxed demand for services in the cities leaving redundant existing services established in Parkes. 
The destruction of balanced employment and job opportunities for higher school certificate holders will eventually result in the enforced loss of many of the community's potential leaders: Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That Parliament take note of the evil effects of the closing of a divisional office in Parkes, and 
That Parliament appoint Parkes to be the head quarters of the areas above. . 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: What funds have been allotted to New South Wales for this financial year under the rural reconstruction scheme? How much of this sum has been drawn to date? Does the appropriate Act provide for a constant review of the provisions of the Act with a set time limit on the first review? Does this review apply to the funds for the scheme and allocation between the States? If the funds allotted to New South Wales are already spent or committed, as some claim, has that State made any approach to the Commonwealth for the review to be expedited? 
My question, which I address to the Postmaster-General, relates to the new booster shortwave radio station at Darwin which came into operation on full power, I think, early last month, broadcasting the 'Radio Australia' programme to South-East and Eastern Asia. Are any reports yet to hand from our posts in the areas specified concerning the success or otherwise of this $8m international relations project? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science and is supplementary to a question that was asked by the honourable member for Denison last week. Can the Minister give the House any details of the study being carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the problem of sterilisation of fruit against the outbreak of either Mediterranean or Queensland fruit fly infestation, the possible presence of which is keeping Australian fruit from the vast fresh and frozen fruit markets and the millions of people in Japan? What funds have been spent and how many qualified personnel are working on this project? Is a fully determined attack being made on this vexed problem, the solution of which would almost certainly mean greatly enlarged outlets for fruit growers on the mainland and in Tasmania? 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the [louse of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Education and Science, relates to teacher training. Has the Commonwealth entered into any  permament  commitment to the training of teachers, or is it the sole long term responsibility of the State to carry out this work? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has a further Australian road survey on which to base the next Commonwealth aid roads scheme been commenced or is one contemplated? Will the Minister endeavour to ensure that the tolerable standards of engineering and road speeds laid down for this survey are not used to cause erosion of funds available for rural roads? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Interior. To explain the question, I refer to a survey of land use and soil erosion within the Lake Burley Griffin catchment area carried out by the Soil Conservation Service of New South Wales in 1970 to assist in an erosion control programme to reduce the rate of siltation in Lake Burley Griffin. Did the survey point to extensive areas of gully erosion and stream bank erosion in  Jerrabombera  and Burra Creeks and the Queanbeyan and Molonglo Rivers? Has the deserted mining area of Captains Flat caused very severe scouring of slag heaps and bare areas around the pits? Is there an advisory soil conservation service in the Australian Capital Territory and what action is being taken to reduce the rate of siltation of Lake Burley Griffin7 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to an appeal by the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales, the  Hon.  Charles Cutler, which has been given wide publicity in rural New South Wales, for the Commonwealth to take part with the States in a co-ordinated national decentralisation programme? Has there been any specific request from any State Premier to the Commonwealth Government along these lines? Finally, exactly what stage has been reached in the Commonwealth-State interdepartmental inquiry into the decentralisation of industry and population? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the Minister explain to the House the circumstances surrounding the application of strict quarantine restrictions to a shipload of 90 horses which arrived in Sydney on Sunday last on board the 'Dona Clausen'? Has any irregularity in the shipment of animals into Australia taken place? Can this incident be taken as an indication of the watchfulness of those officers charged with the policing of Australia's quarantine regulations, or has some major oversight or contravention of the regulations taken place? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a short preface to my question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Army, the Minister will know that only 10 out of the 63 major Citizen Military Forces headquarters in the Commonwealth of battalion or regimental strength are sited in country areas, and that there is concern at a continued decline in CMF strength involving a net loss of over 2,000 last year. Does this concentration of major CMF headquarters in city areas discriminate against the officers and senior non-commissioned officers in country units, and mitigate against their chances of promotion to senior ranks? What is it that stands in the way of raising CMF units in country areas where the need and the willingness have been exhibited and the quality of the material offering is all that could be required? 
I wish to raise today the question of the recent rises in steel prices. I want to make it clear at the start that my reason for raising this matter is not that I am out to attack or defend anybody but that I want to point out the end effect of some of these steel price rises on the rural producers. We know that there has been discussion on this matter in this House before. At the outset I would like to make my position on it quite clear. I range myself alongside the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who was misrepresented in this House and elsewhere as to what he said about the price rises. What he actually said was:   . . it was unfortunate and regrettable that BHP had to increase its prices but I could understand why, because of the extravagant wage increases and the industrial unrest which had occurred in this country during the past 12 months. 
Those words were uttered by my Leader on 22nd February 1972 in this House. But, as I recall it, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd recently announced an average rise of 5.3 per cent in its steel prices. 1 emphasise the word 'average'. I have had placed before me a letter in the form of a circular which was sent by a firm of farm machinery manufacturers to farm machinery agents in rural areas. I will read portion of it. The first paragraph reads: 
After holding our prices for 12 months during a time when cost of living, wages and prices indices have shown the steepest increase in more than a decade, we have been forced to increase our own prices. 
The second paragraph goes on to refer to attached new price lists. The rest of the letter reads: 
I think it is necessary to tell you that at this stage we intend to absorb the latest increase in the price of steel announced by BHP, and remind you that this is the second increase from BHP since our prices were amended in March 1971. 1 want you to know, and 1 think it is  impor.tant  that the rural community should know, that the much publicised announcement by BHP of a price increase averaging 5.3 per cent does not apply to supplies of steel required for the manufacture of farm machinery, or in fact most other machinery. 
The average increase for us and nearly all other manufacturers is 9) per cent. 
The letter went on to say. 
The announcement of 5.3 per cent increase is misleading. 
If I may interpolate, it is not necessarily deliberately misleading. The letter continues: 
This particularly applies to steel required for earth-engaging parts which has increased 23.3 per  cent  in the last 12 months, and the latest price from BHP represents an increase of 10.S per cent  since  the last increase in June, 1971. 
I have confirmed the authenticity of this letter. I have spoken to the managing director of the firm that sent it out. I have further inquired from people in other farm machinery manufacturing firms, and one well known manufacturer of plough discs and points for rigid-tined and spring-lined implements claims that the rise is nearer to 12 per cent. The reason for this approximation might readily be apparent. Steel pricing in itself is not a simple matter. I understand that it is a complex matter. For a start a base price is put out and then adjustments are made to the base price for the quality of the steel, for the sizes which are ordered and also for the quantities, lt therefore follows that prices of steel to different manufacturers who are making the same implements could differ, particularly in view of the fact that manufacturers order different quantities. So, straight away a very steep rise in steel prices has an effect on the rural producer. 
I want to make 2 further points. One is the effect of steel price rises on exporters as well as on the Australian rural producer. One firm to which I spoke is making tillage implements which are being exported to 43 different countries, including Japan and the United States of America. We know that it is axiomatic that the higher the cost of production the worse will be the competitive position in which the manufacturers will find themselves, whether they are trading on the export market or on the local market. Another point which I think I should make in fairness to BHP - the great steel manufacturing company in this country - is that I have found that amongst the farm machinery manufacturing industry the opinion is held that the quality of BHP steel is second to none. It is claimed by these people that BHP steel has been proved to be better than Sheffield steel and also steel from West Germany. We know that those 2 sources of materials have been producers of quality steel for a very long time. 
I just repeat my point that, although the average increase in the price of steel announced by the steel producers is 5.3 per cent, the price of steel for farm machinery on which rural producers depend so much, because of the selectivity in the types of steel that they use, such as spring steel, cast steel and earth-engaging steel which requires high anti-wearing qualities, has increased by 23.3 per cent in the last 12 months, which is far greater than the 12 per cent which I have just quoted. Conversely it should follow, and I hope it does, that the great body of users of mild steel will be getting steel price rises below the 5.3 per cent. I am prompted - and I point this out for one reason only - to put forward to the people a clearer picture of some of the end results of price rises, particularly in the case of steel, to the end user. I know that there are people outside this Parliament, and I am afraid inside it, who appear to be unable or at least reluctant to get a clear view of the problems of the rural economy and also of the export industries. I also hope that the leaders of rural industries will never lose an opportunity to put these facts before the people to whom they give evidence on matters which concern them. I refer to the Tariff Board, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and wherever else it is appropriate. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I pose it in the belief that, although the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is showing some strategic Interest in the Indian Ocean, there does not appear to be any significant permanently based naval presence from any country in the Indian Ocean at this time. Might, it not be an appropriate time to work towards some form of Indian Ocean agreement that would prevent or limit development of naval facilities by outside powers, and is not this a very pertinent proposition which would fall within the competence of the United Nations to sponsor? 
It is strange to reflect on how the problems of honourable members in this House differ. 
Although I realise the problems of the people represented by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  caused by aircraft noise, I can assure the House that aircraft noise is the least of the worries of the people whom I represent. Indeed, if I could co-opt his assistance to have an alternative airport established west of the Blue Mountains, I would readily do so, because that is what they appear to want. 
The Appropriation Bills which we are discussing now will give authority for the expenditure in the remainder of this financial year of funds not already included in the 1971 Budget. Appropriation Bill (No. 4) exceeds $71m, and it consists in the main of $ 14.6m for additional salaries in the Commonwealth, brought about not only by additional staff but also by increases as a result of arbitration rulings; $ 13.1m for departmental administrative expenses; $27.6m for other departmental services; and $15. 8m for Defence Services. Appropriation Bill (No. 5) exceeds $80m. Of that $49. lm goes for payments to or for the States, and $3 1.3m goes for capital works and services. 
I want to refer to 3 particular appropriations. Appropriation Bill (No. 4) provides, in the Department of Primary Industry, an appropriation of $400,000 for wool marketing assistance. That is in addition to the $3.7m which was appropriated in the Budget. For the same Department, and in the same Division, there is an additional appropriation of $40,000 for emergency assistance to wool growers. That, of course, is in addition to the $150,000 also appropriated in the last Budget. That marks a phasing out of this scheme. Although it has had many critics, it has really provided much needed, quick relief to hard-pressed wool growers - people who are hard pressed not only by the drop in wool prices and the increases in costs, but also by the effects of drought. These appropriations are really machinery measures which put into effect quite a varied group of policies and measures which this Government formulated in its efforts to assist hard-pressed rural industries and, of course, that means hard-pressed rural communities. 
Then we have a variety of other measure*. I do not want to weary the House by going through them in detail, but we think quickly of the legislation setting up the Australian Wool Commission and the provisions for funding that Commission. This in itself has been a great success story, and it has been accepted by people inside and outside the wool industry. Then there was the deficiency payments scheme, which will go down in history as marking a turning point in the whole economy of the industry. Then there were devaluation payments and the halving of the levy paid by wool growers for promotion and research, and the doubling of the amount paid by the Commonwealth. Next we had the underwriting of finance - and this is going on at the moment - to integrate wool selling complexes. Then we had the commercial application of pre-sale objective measurements. These are things that assure, we hope, the future of the wool industry. We know also that the Government is now studying the submissions put forward by the wool industry for acquisition and marketing of the total Australian clip, and that it awaits the report of the Randall Committee before it makes a decision here. 
Taken individually, the things that I have mentioned in this Appropriation Bill are significant in a limited area of the rural economy, but taken together they provide a tremendous contribution to the recovery of the economy and the recovery of confidence which has taken place in the rural industries. But I want to speak particularly about rural reconstruction - a further scheme of this Government - and about the re-training scheme. To obtain a clear view of the rural reconstruction scheme I suggest it is appropriate to go back to the instigation of the scheme. This brings me to a point that I want to make quite clearly. The legislation was introduced at the wish of rural producers themselves. No doubt it has helped also and it will continue to help business in rural areas. Two years ago or more it was the experience of many members - perhaps all members - who represented rural areas, to attend many meetings, and at those meetings to hear and to see that producers were in dire straits brought about not only by seasonal conditions but also by a dramatic drop in wool prices, by an over-supply of wheat, by the introduction of wheat quotas, by an unfortunate uplift in land valuations at that time and by Increases in costs generally. These were not always pleasant affairs. Views were put quite forcefully and it was not uncommon to hear come from the bodies of halls such questions as: 'When will the Government introduce a scheme which will apply to people in the wheat and wool industries along the lines of the scheme applied in the dairying industry?' I would like to make that point quite clear because it is often said that the Commonwealth Government introduced a policy of get big or get out The pressures came originally from the industry itself. Now the use of that expression is confined, luckily, to the economists. 
To me one of the vital parts of the Bill that brought in the rural reconstruction scheme was Part IV and the Schedule which provided for a review of the scheme after a particular time. The Bill set out what the review should cover. It put a time factor on the first review so that whatever legislation was necessary following the review could be brought into this House to enable the new arrangements to apply before 1st July. Not only did it do this, but it set down that the appropriate State and Commonwealth authorities would meet together periodically, at least once a year, and it laid down a time limit for the exchange of information. For those who had any doubts - quite a number did - when the legislation went through and was in its early stages of operation, the provision for review dispelled their doubts. 
In a recent statement in this House the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  described some of the main difficulties which had affected the working of the scheme. One of the greatest difficulties arose from the difference in the preparedness of the States. I think it is fair to say that New South Wales led the field in its preparation for this work. It had an organisation which was ready to go into action straight away. One of the last to go into action was Tasmania. I make no criticism of that; I put the 2 together for comparison. This difference made it hard to co-ordinate the scheme and to review its proper working. 
The Minister also pointed out the difficulty of allocation of funds. As we know, a general objective was laid down by the Commonwealth that funds would be divided on a 50-50 basis between debt reconstruction and farm build-up. It has turned out that the amount applied to farm build-up has been very small in comparison with the amount for debt reconstruction, and this has proved to be a drawback to the workings of the scheme. The approvals show that S49.8m has gone for debt reconstruction but only S8.9m has gone for farm build-up. It is my view that farm build-up will accelerate as this scheme gets going. It will accelerate as confidence returns and strengthens in the industry. There is room for confidence in the industry. There has been an increase in wheat quotas. There has been . an increase in the price of wool and a decrease in the stockpile of wool which the Australian Wool Commission has at its disposal. There has been a strategic siting of wool stockpiles throughout the world. There is a new outlook in the industry, and I think it is correct to say that there is a binding together in the industry, with all sectors setting about an attack on the marketing and handling problems which confront them at this moment. 
The Minister in his statement announced some changes. First of all authority was given to spend the remainder of the funds which had been originally allocated for expenditure over a longer period, and the Commonwealth has in effect given an additional S56m for this year. It has doubled the amount available or halved the time in which the original allocation was to be spent. An additional $15m is to be made available to fund approvals. An extra $3m is to go to Queensland to help it overcome its drought situation. This, of course, is a grant to match a State grant. Another change that I regard as important is that the period of loans for farm build-up purposes can now be up to 30 years duration, at the discretion of the States. At last loans are being made for terms which are appropriate to rural industries and conducive to efficiency in rural industries, some of them being for almost the whole working life of a man. In view of cost burdens and other difficulties, these are the types of terms which are absolutely necessary for the correct working of the industry in the future. Rehabilitation loans have been trebled. I still regard them as not being very big. These loans are to assist those who are obliged to leave the industry through hardship. A meeting of the administering authorities has to take place within 2 months of the date of the introduction of the Minister's statement in an effort to get the maximum uniformity between the various States. 
It is not held by the Government or anybody else that the rural reconstruction scheme is a panacea for all economic troubles. It is a part of a series of measures. I can mention many of them. I have mentioned some, but I refer particularly to the emergency grants to wool growers, the deficiency payments scheme, rehabilitation schemes, the rural retraining scheme and the rural unemployment relief scheme. I could go on to mention many others. They are all to be seen as part of a general pattern. When State and Federal Ministers met recently they considered the question of rural finance generally, but before I go on to deal with that I want to refer to the fact that much criticism has been levelled and is still being levelled at the traditional lenders that the rural producer knows. I do not think that the extent to which the private trading banks have invested in the Australian Wool Commission and land industries in general is generally known and accepted. Of course, I use the term 'invested' advisedly. They have invested at a profit, of course. To the people on this side of the House at least, to make a profit, provided it is a reasonable profit, is not a crime. The whole rural reconstruction scheme is meant to run side by side with the normal lending from these traditional lenders, and I am sure that the whole scheme operates to the benefit of Australia as a whole. 
In discussing rural finance, from my experience in the rural areas I consider that in terms of financial standing, generally speaking, people can be divided into 4 categories. There are those who require no direct assistance with capital at the moment. They can be divided into all sorts of subdivisions, and they are in that position for a number of reasons. Some of them are at the end of a long family line of primary producers and some of them probably would not know what it is like to have an overdraft. If we want to go right to the other end of the scale, and it is best to do it this way, there are those who, no matter what is done for them and no matter what assistance is given to them, will never make a success of the venture in which they are engaged. For these people the Government has a rehabilitation and retraining scheme. In the third group are those who require assistance as provided by the rural reconstruction scheme about which I have been speaking. 
The fourth category is the one that is not well looked after. I regard it as being the category into which the majority of rural producers fall. I refer to those who do not qualify for assistance under the rural reconstruction scheme and who really require additional long term finance. There is little movement at the moment in the sale of land, but the movement at this moment - I hope that with the restoration of confidence in the future there will be further movement - to me accentuates the need to provide long term money for the purchase of rural properties. Although it was strongly held some time ago that low interest meant a great deal to people on the land, there are many who are now conceding that low interest is of relatively small importance compared with the length of the term. When we talk of low interest we talk of subsidised interest. There is no traditional lender who will lend on low interest, and he cannot be expected to. The long term must be available to the efficient operator in primary industry, and this is where big efforts have to be made. There is an area of great need here. The Government knows it. 
It is the subject of an intensive study by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. At Wagga not so long ago the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  pointed out: 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has for some time been making a very thorough investigation of this whole question of rural credit. The study has to be thorough, because it's not the simple matter many people think it is. We have to be sure that, if we do come up with some further development of credit facilities, they will do what we want them to do ... to ensure that the right people get the right kind of help, for the right objectives. 
The Minister went on to point out that the Bureau is getting near the end of its task and that the Government will be looking at it very carefully in the future. This matter requires solution by the Government quickly. I have kept in touch with the progress of this study and I am confident that some future Appropriation Bill such as the one we are discussing will make provision for appropriate rural finance with 20- year to 30-year terms of repayment. 
I ask the Minister for the Army: Has there been a series of demonstrations and open attacks against Citizen Military Forces depots involving the burning of military vehicles and damage amounting to a considerable sum of money? Can the Minister give details of these attacks and say whether the Government is alive to the seriousness of these new developments? Is there any evidence to tie these attacks to deliberate communist activity or is it possible to downgrade these activities to their being the acts of misguided people? 1 am prompted to ask finally and shortly in response to interjections, as I am not known to be an inveterate communist can kicker in this Parliament and I have not mentioned the Australian Labor Party or the Opposition: Why has the reaction to a question as important as this been as it has been? (Opposition members interjecting) - 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry believe that the activities of the International Wool Secretariat are an important element in the present recovery of wool prices? In view of the present widespread public interest in the wool marketing proposals and the necessity for an understanding of the support given to the industry in its competition with synthetic fibres, could the Minister make available reports of the International Wool Secretariat on its activities? 
It is remarkable, listening to the debate on the Budget, how the same set of figures can be interpreted in so many widely divergent ways. I listened with interest to the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who expounded his views on the currency levels. We in this corner of the chamber who represent people on the land, understand his great difficulty in reconciling the well held and well advertised views on currency levels of his leader the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam),  with the interests of the cane growers whom he represents. This Budget has been outstanding for the low level of criticism which has come in from all quarters. The last newspaper that I had my hand on this afternoon was the Sydney 'Daily Mirror'. The editorial of that newspaper described the Budget - these are not my words but those of the editor - as a 'successful Budget'. It went on to say: 'The Budget has had an extremely favourable reception'. I think that is well stated. Honourable members become accustomed to receiving the usual spate of telegrams and letters following the presentation of a budget. So far as I was concerned, they were conspicuous by their total absence. Of course disappointments were expressed; there always will be disappointments. These disappointments have been registered in some sectors of the community. I have encountered them in primary industry, in local government bodies and in connection with estate duty arrangements. But when we look into these things I find that the disappointments are mostly based on a misunderstanding of the real position. In some rural industries comments were made by apparently responsible men such as: 'This is a city man's Budget and there is nothing for the man on the land'. This is the type of criticism that is made. I would like to point out to some of these people that payments to rural industries in this Budget of $233m are the second highest on record. If wool deficiency payments were deducted from last year's figures for the purpose of comparison, the remaining phases of primary industry could have attracted a record appropriation again this year. 
Why were deficiency payments in the case of wool not catered for? This was because when the industry itself called to the Government to put a floor into the wool market at a level of 40c a lb the Government showed its confidence in this great industry by putting a floor into the market, not at 40c but at 36c. Whatever the full and detailed reasons for the recovery of the woo] industry eventually turn out to be, the action of this Government and its provision of $52. 8m last year was a major contributing factor in this recovery, to say the least. To such an extent was the Government's action a success that in the provision for 1972-73 there is only $lm set aside for this purpose. Looking at the trend of the wool market, even if it stays as it is, it is doubtful whether anything will be needed out of this fund. I will have more to say about wool later. 
Let us look at what happened in this Budget in the primary field. Some $20m was set aside for the provision of long term credit, and I intend to speak more about that later. In addition, S46m was set aside as a subsidy on superphosphate fertilisers, and another $10m for nitrogenous fertilisers. There is an investment of $56m on the part of the Government which it will get back time and time again. It is an investment in the future of our rural industries. There is S56m for rural reconstruction. This condenses the funds set aside for a 4-year programme into a 2-year programme. An additional Si 5m has been set aside for assistance which might be approved in the latter portion of this financial year and carried over for payment into the next year. An amount of $47m has been set aside for wheat stabilisation. Despite the fact that only Sim has been set aside for wool deficiency payments, an extra $32m has been set aside for wool industry research, promotion and marketing assistance. Further, there is a $28m subsidy for butter and cheese. An amount of $9m has been set aside for the reconstruction of the marginal dairying industry and the marginal fruit growing industry. 
The Budget provides for a $4m grant towards the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. I think that money expended in this area is particularly well spent. The eradication of diseases will serve in keeping up the supply of our meat exports. I commend the activity of the research committee of the Australian Meat Board in relation to the disease cystercycosis which will, I fear, threaten our future exports of mutton and lamb if it is not controlled. Funds have been set aside also for research into other industries such as wheat, tobacco, wine and barley. In reply to the critics of the Commonwealth Government who say that this Government has been inactive in the field of decentralisation - this afternoon I heard this comment from honourable members who sit on the other side - I point out that an amount of $27m is to be expended on petrol price equalisation. Honourable members may ask: 'Is it enough?' Of course it is not enough. It never is. We have almost reached a holding position for the man on the land but some areas of some industries will require continued assistance from the Government and co-operation between the industry and the Government. But in all fairness and in all truth it cannot be rightly said, as some say now, that there is nothing in this Budget for the man on the land. 
There are still some major rural problems. Tonight I want to refer to 3 of them. Firstly, there is still much to be done for the wool industry. Secondly, we have to find a solution for long term rural finance. Thirdly, a new deal for local government finance, particularly in rural areas, is badly needed. On the question of wool marketing, it is well known that the Government promised recently to guarantee the floor price for another year to 30th June next year at 79.37c per kilo. I congratulate the Government on this move. I doubt whether the industry will need funds or will need to act on the guarantee but this decision has definitely served to put confidence not only into the industry itself but into the whole business community and those who depend on wool. The Government has promised an amalgamation of the Australian Wool industry conference and the Australian Wool Commission, and the new authority will prepare a plan in detail which will give to the authority a detailed acquisition scheme. It will be given powers of acquisition should it require to use them. I emphasise the words 'should it require to use them'. But it is not generally recognised that the nature of the factors which have to be decided by any authority when it is set up are complex. A decision on these factors demands continual consultation between industry, State governments and the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth has no power at all to act on its own in this matter. 
I think lt is as well to enumerate some of these factors, which were well set out in a speech delivered by my leader, the right honourable J. D. Anthony in Western Australia not long ago. I think these things ought to be considered. He said: 
At what point is Tse wool to be acquired? How will wool be delivered to the Corporation's stores? What clip preparation standards will apply? How will wool be received into store? 
If we ask anyone these questions we will get a different answer to most of them. He went on to say: 
What will be the future role of brokers, private traders and other commercial interests? 
That is an important one. He continued: 
What's to be the basis for appraising and valuing wool under an acquisition scheme? How are growers to be paid - a single payment, or advance and final payments? What provision should there be for arbitration of disputes over appraisal or valuation? 
There is not one of these questions which does not require an answer before the legislation is brought in. The Minister continued: 
What are to be the handling procedures in the store - interlotting, bulk classing and so on? How are deductions for handling, selling and so on to be made from growers' accounts? What methods of sale are to be used? 
He asked whether we would throw the auction system overboard. He asked whether the method of selling would be done by open tender or negotiated prices. The list of questions goes on in that speech, but I think I have given enough of them to illustrate the factors which have to be decided before we could get such a scheme off the ground. 
Those points partly explain my concern about the time factor in this operation, which is of fundamental concern to the wool industry. Normally it takes weeks, as we in this House know, to complete the debate on the Budget and the debate on the Estimates, and the legislation to enable the setting up of a wool authority cannot be debated until the debates on the Budget and the Estimates are concluded. I hope that the Government will give some priority to the wool legislation when general legislation is introduced, because after it is passed by both House of Parliament and receives royal assent the members of the authority will have to be chosen to enable the authority to go to work. This lapse of time has to be cut right down to a minimum, consistent of course with the application of due thought to such a radical charge in marketing arrangements in an industry which is of vital importance to the whole Australian economy. I know that the Government will keep in mind the importance of this legislation. 
I turn now to the second point 1 want to refer to, that is, long term finance for rural industry. It is now generally accepted - 1 think I am correct in saying this - by most people in the industries, including most of the industry leaders, that the need in this field is to concentrate on the long term rather than on the question of interest rates which I predict are likely to be at ruling commercial rates when they are brought out. The Government has set aside $20m for this purpose. The Budget Speech says that the Government took this action after completing an intensive review, which it did. The Budget Speech states: 
The measures to be adopted have still to be finalised; the intention is to bring down legislation in this session of the Parliament. 
There has been some criticism of the small amount of money appropriated when compared with the magnitude of the requirements. I look back to the birth of the Commonwealth Development Bank. I think that Bank started off with a capital of £5m or $10m. It is now a very strong instrumentality; I think its capital is in the 9-figure range. 
Many people had the same misgivings about the sum of money which was set aside for rural reconstruction. 1 was one of them and I expressed my dissatisfaction in this House, but very quickly the funds allotted for the 4-year term were condensed into a 2-year term and in effect this doubled the potential of that scheme. I hope that the new scheme - and I strongly favour a separate form of rural bank - has the sama rate of growth and success as did the Commonwealth Development Bank and the rural reconstruction scheme. We should let the funds of those instrumentalities work where they are now being used, because this sum of $20m is designed for use in another quarter altogether. I refer to the majority of rural producers who are solvent at this stage but who will need further capital to enlarge their undertaking or to increase their productivity on existing areas. Ali this is in the interests of the nation as a whole. I am encouraged by the statement made by the Prime Minister during question time this morning when he referred to legislation on long term credit. The Prime Minister said that the legislation which has been promised in the Budget should be put on the statute book before the election date is finalised. Those were his words, as I remember them. 
My third and final point concerns a lot of men who are in responsible positions in local government - men who are there because they were elected by their fellow men and who work in a voluntary capacity. It is not true to say that the Commonwealth does not already greatly assist with local government finance. I used a double negative. One would say it is true to say they do already greatly assist with local government finance. An amount of $ 1,252m has been allocated for the next quinquennium under the Commonwealth aid roads scheme. Direct grants for local government assistance in the financial year just completed amounted to S245m and this year it will rise, according to this Budget, to $279ra. Notwithstanding this, whether or not the funds come from the Commonwealth or the States where the constitutional responsibility lies, local government authorities have reached a position where under the present rating system some ratepayers cannot pay their rates at all. Some have paid to date but cannot stand any further increases. In any case, there is an ever-growing body of opinion amongst ratepayers which claims that the rating system, coupled with tha present valuation system, is inequitable. I am a member of what the Australian Council of Local Government Associations refers to as its Canberra Committee. The experience I have gained on that committee coupled with my electoral experience, makes it easy for me to be aware of the financial problems of local government that are borne by these men who act in a voluntary capacity. 
I am speaking of rural areas because it is in those areas that I am familiar with the operations of local government. My remarks could apply equally elsewhere. Local government bodies continuously put forward their problems. The Stuckey report, which some honourable members may have studied, has made a great contribution. It was produced by a man who covered the whole field, right throughout the Commonwealth. On 20th July last an historic event occurred in Canberra. I would like to read the comment on that occasion which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. It stated: 
It was a significant occasion when the Prime Minister met a deputation from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations in Canberra last week. 
The deputation was introduced by the leader of the Committee, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  who is now at the table and  Senator Davidson.  The report went on: 
This deputation was the first from local government to be received by a Prime Minister in more than 20 years. The meeting could prove to be an historic one if it turns out to be the harbinger of a new deal for local government. While  Mr McMahon  gave no promises be did  make an important acknowledgment of the role of local councils in our system of government.  Mr McMahon  backed the request by local government to be represented at the coming constitutional convention. 
What happens at this convention? What will come from it? That lies in the future, but I can say to members of local government bodies that I will be taking an active interest in the preliminary moves which are starting now for a renewal of the Commonwealth aid roads scheme for the next quinquennium, after the present quinquennium finishes next year. If I am informed of State approaches to the Commonwealth for special grants I will certainly give them the support they deserve. In my opinion the financial load on the local government bodies in all fairness must be relieved. I support the motion and I dismiss the amendment. 
During this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury and the Advance to the Treasurer I would like to draw attention to 2 aspects: Firstly, the general question of the raising of revenue by the Commonwealth compared with the States and secondly, if time permits, the alleviation of the burden of estate duty and gift duty as forecast in the Budget and for which legislation has been introduced into this House. 
The raising of revenue by the Commonwealth and States is a matter which constantly has come into the minds of the public. This is so whether the expenditure concerns social services of all types, transport, power supply or water conservation. But regardless of the purpose of the expenditure it is as well to remember that no government has anything of its own to give away. All of the funds which are raised come from the public by way of tax or by way of contribution towards loan funds. I find that there is a very real lack of realisation surrounding the source of funds which are available for government use in the interests of the public. 
It is repeatedly brought home to the member, I hold, that the general public believes that the vast bulk of funds raised by governments is raised and distributed by the Commonwealth. One unfortunate reaction from this belief is the impetus that the belief gives which contributes to centralism in government. There is a continuing demand coming forward for the Commonwealth Government to act in areas which are constitutionally the preserves of the States and which should be left as such. 
I think there is far too much emphasis placed on the role of the Federal Government as a money source. The demand that I speak of I find comes from all quarters. It comes from individuals and from organisations in a very wide field. When it is pointed out that perhaps the proposition or the demand which is put forward falls outside of federal responsibility, the reply comes back that the Commonwealth has all the funds. How often we hear that, but it is not so. I have watched this closely for several years. What is the position? Let us compare the financial assistance grants to the States by the Commonwealth with revenue collected by the States by way of State taxes. The source of ray figures are the Budget papers for this year and for previous years. Because time will not permit me to deal with all States I will deal only with New South Wales. I have selected this State for no other reason than that the electorate of Calare falls entirely within the boundaries of New South Wales. The figures which I shall give to the House have been taken from the appropriate New South Wales Year Book. 
In 1969-70 New South Wales raised $344.3m by way of State taxation. I will give a breakdown of that amount later. During that period New South Wales received from the Commonwealth $373.9m by way of State grants. Therefore we had a figure $344.3m compared with $373.9m. There is not much difference between those 2 figures. 
In the following year, 1970-71, State taxes raised by New South Wales amounted to $364.6m, and it received from the Commonwealth $470.8m by way of State grants. The results are even more striking in the financial year just completed. The State taxes amounted to approximately $550. 6m. I hasten to point out here that the actual figures are not yet available. I have relied on estimates made by the State of New South Wales. I repeat that the amount of money raised by the State is $550.6m. During that year New South Wales received from the Commonwealth a total of S462.2m. 1 shall give a breakdown of some of these taxes which were collected by New South Wales and I have no doubt that the other States fall into a similar pattern. The State taxes were made up of death duties, stamp duties, land tax. racing and betting taxes, liquor licences, motor taxes and licences, poker machine taxes and, of course, during this last year a very big sum has been added in the form of payroll tax. In New South Wales the sum collected by way of pay-roll tax is $ 146.4m. I have not included the local rates and taxes which were collected within the State. Therefore, looking back, we see that in the financial year not long completed New South Wales raised $88m more by way of its own taxes than it received from the Commonwealth by way of State grants. A major contributing factor to this state of affairs was pay-roll tax, which had become the State's particular prerogative. 1 regard the action on the part of the Commonwealth to give the States access to a tax which could be justly termed a growth tax to be enlightened. 
What is the point that can be made about this situation? Firstly 1 want to highlight the successful efforts of the States themselves in raising their own revenue. Secondly, I would like to highlight the fact that in one State at least - that is New South Wales, and I have no doubt that the others follow closely and may even lead - the Government does not depend as much as some people think on the Commonwealth for its financial life blood. Thirdly, the continuing demands on Commonwealth financial assistance in matters which are constitutionally State prerogatives play into the hands of the centralist. The old saying: Where your treasure lies there your heart lies also' applies here. I think that we can paraphrase that quote and make it more appropriate by saying that with a grant of funds from the Commonwealth for any 
18830/72-  -R-144 
specific purpose there is also a responsibility to see that the public funds are spent correctly. The trend to centralism leads to the erosion in the end of State rights. 
In the few minutes left to me I would like to say something about estate and gift duty. I point out that the further alleviation of the effects of estate and gift duty will be of benefit to the public in general. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in delivering his Budget Speech and submitting the Budget papers, set out very clearly a number of examples which I think have been distributed to all honourable members.  His  first example dealt with a suburban estate going wholly to close relatives. It is clearly set out. The estate comprises the matrimonial home and furnishings - this is the sort of thing which happens every day - the family car, life assurance, small amounts of cash and other investments. In an estate with a value, say, of $40,000, the duty before the Bill is passed would be assessable at a figure of $937. The proposed duty under the Bill will be nil. The Treasurer has set out a number of other instances dealing with suburban estates. He then deals with rural estates. 
To some it seems incongruous, but nevertheless it is a fact, that in primary industries where so many have suffered the effects of recession and loss of income and whose position has caused them to call for government assistance and for access to better finance, there should also be a bitter resentment at the impact of estate duty in both Federal and State fields. The position is that the farmer and grazier and many other rural business people are, on paper at least under our present valuation system, asset wealthy and yet are in a state of very low liquidity. Where these circumstances exist together, despite the more enlightened and humane approach which has been notable and the consideration exhibited over more recent years by the Taxation Office, a great deal of personal hardship and economic disaster have been caused by the imposition of estate or probate duty. This has been recognised in the Budget and the Government has made substantial corrections. I commend the Government for it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the Bank of New South Wales in its quarterly economic review has come out strongly against any revaluation of the Australian dollar? What reasons did the Bank give for this? Does this serve to prove that all qualified opinion, even amongst banking institutions, is not on one side of this argument, the resolution of which will have such far reaching effects on export industry? 
In the debate on the estimates of this group of departmentsI particularly want to refer to the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry. 1 shall concentrate primarily on the Trade Commissioner Service for 2 reasons: Firstly, to highlight its past record and. secondly, to point to the tremendous task which I see ahead of it in the future. With more satisfactory prices being received for most primary products the attention of the producers and the Government alike must in my opinion turn to 2 very important phases of the economy of export industry - the containment of costs on the one hand and marketing procedues on the other. I deal first with marketing. The entry of Britain into the European Economic Community will make it all the more imperative for Australia in its marketing to become quite aggressive in its efforts to find and hold new and expanded markets. The task is one for the industries and the. Government alike. The industries, of course, have their own methods of handling this side of their operations and it is not for the Government to lay down in specific detail bow they should go about it. But the Government has a policy, in cooperation with industry, to develop increased export capacity in primary and secondary industries, to instigate vigorous promotion campaigns, to provide financial assistance to give taxation incentives, to work in close co-operation with producer boards and with export industry in this work, to negotiate international commodity agreements, to build stability and profitability into our markets, to establish trade commissioner services, to establish posts throughout the world to foster Australia's trade relations and to assist in the development of export markets. 
I refer particularly to the Trade Commissioner Service and draw attention to these estimates which reveal that last year slightly more than $8m was spent through this service and that this year expenditure will be increased quite substantially to slightly more than $9m. Notwithstanding the adverse trade conditions that we have seen in world trade recently, Australia's exports are continuing to increase and the preliminary figures for 1971-72 show that exports could well reach a figure of $4,902m. This is likely to be the highest export figure on record. A substantial amount of this success is attributable to Australia's Trade Commissioner Service and it is as well to look at the history of this Service. It was established in the mid- 1930s to assist individual exporters to develop trade. In those early days it dealt principally with primary exports. Later on its role was widened and developed to include secondary industries. Today its objectives remain unchanged but the vastly changing trends in world trade are throwing up continuously new challenges for our trade commissioners throughout the world. One of the results of this current situation has been the development of a very high standard of professionalism in the Trade Commissioner Service and its officers enjoy a great reputation among Australian businessmen and their customers overseas. Last Monday I had the opportunity to speak at a luncheon with the Honourable J. B. Fuller, MLC, who has just returned from his sixth trade delegation to other countries. He had with him officers of his own Government, men from industry and at least one representative from the Department of Trade and Industry. He speaks most highly indeed, and he should know after 6 consecutive visits, of the reputation of Australia's Trade Commissioner Service. I sought some information from my leader, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  about what it is intended to do with this extra $lm. In 20 years this Service has grown from 45 trade commissioners operating in 23 posts in 14 countries to 147 trade commissioners operating in 50 posts in 37 countries. It has practically trebled. Now the establishment has been reviewed in the light of 
Australia's widening trade interests. This Sim will partly assist in raising the number of trade commissioners to 165 to operate in 53 posts in 40 countries. These trade commissioners are men with quite considerable qualifications. Over half of them are recruited from industry and commerce, which must give the Service a very sound balance indeed. Over 85 per cent of Commissioners have tertiary qualifications. Most can speak one foreign language and some can speak several. Their duties, using their qualifications and specialist knowledge of the overseas markets in which they are operating, are to advise Australian exporters on methods likely to succeed in the highly and increasingly competitive world markets. The commissioners give assistance in various ways, the provision of market and commodity surveys, the servicing of trade inquiries for Australian products for export and generally to report on such things as tendering opportunities and trade openings as a whole and in particular on some specific gaps or opportunities in various markets. The Service gives advice on the latest marketing methods, promotion techniques, the appointment of agents and generally brings the buyer and seller into contact. So much for its activities in that direction. It is a necessary and useful side of its work to report back to and advise Government of trading procedures and to act in the field of international trade agreements. 
I have taken a very watchful interest in the progress of the Agricultural Outlook Conferences. Two of them have been held now and I commend them for the work that they have done because they are meeting a long felt need for the provision of information and the obtaining of intelligence on the overseas situation of supply and demand so that producers have an opportunity to adjust their works to set the best from the existing markets. Surely this Trade Commissioner Service could be of inestimable value in getting to Australia some intelligence on which these Agricultural Outlook Conferences can operate I have outlined something of the growth of the Trade Commissioner Service, the way in which it has developed and its role, in order to emphasise its importance, the need for it and the value of it to all exporting industries, particularly primary industry. I have done it also to emphasise the improvement in one of the phases of industry, that is, between production at one end and the consumer at the other. It is this aspect to which government and industry must continue to devote positive attention in the future now that things are beginning to straighten out a little on the price side. I welcome the addition of this Sim to the allocation for this country's Trade Commissioner Service. 
I know that the co-operation of the House is being sought and that the number of speakers in this debate is limited because there is a desire to finish the debate on this legislation and to put it into the hands of the Senate so that the benefits can be given to those who are entitled to them. The Bill gives effect to a number of promises contained in the Budget Speech delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It deals with maximum rates of general rate war pension which will be increased to $14 a week. The special rate pension will be increased to $48 a week. The intermediate rate war pension, war widows pensions and domestic allowances will also be increased. I draw attention to the fact that this Bill is not the only measure which will bring these increases into effect. As pointed out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  there will be amendments in the regulations. He said: 
Amendments to regulations will be necessary to give effect to some of the improvements, such as the increase of 50c a week in the domestic allowance payable to war widows, and the provision of nursing home care for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen-  and others. There are 3 aspects of the 
Government's repatriation proposals to which I would especially like to draw the attention of the House. 
The first is the great area over which these proposals are spread, involving substantial increases in members war pensions and allowances, and in war pensions and allowances for the widows and children of deceased ex-servicemen, together with the extension of benefits. The second aspect to which the Minister for Repatriation referred in his second reading speech is the feci that these proposals should not be considered in isolation - I think that is a very important point - but in. the context of what the Government has done in the repatriation field over the life of this Parliament. When we look at it we see that some of the charges made by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  cannot be sustained. What the House is considering here is the culmination of 3 years of activity during the life of this Parliament. Let me cite some figures to support that. In his speech the Minister drew attention to the fact that the total expenditure on repatriation services for the year 1969-70 was $3 17m. In 1971-72 this amount had risen to S37 . .6m. In other words, there was a rise between 1969-70 and 1970-71 of $60m. Total Government commitments on repatriation in the 1972-73 Budget are $4 18.9m. This is an increase of $41m. So we have not raised these amounts by as much this year - this election year, as the honourable member for Lang said - as we raised the full total of repatriation services in the previous year. I think I can say to the honourable member for Lang that this rather ruins his gloomy view of political gimmickry. 
The next point I raise is the retention in the present proposal of and the Government's emphasis over the last few years on improved compensation and improved care for the most severely disabled exservicemen - that is where the emphasis has been - and for the dependants of deceased ex-servicemen. As to the first of the 3 points I have raised, the wide effects of the Budget proposals on repatriation are immediately obvious from the legislation which is before the House. However, when one considers the legislation in conjunction with the proposed means test improvements as they affect ex-servicemen, the result is even more impressive. The Minister for Repatriation has given this House a few examples of some of these benefits. For instance, a married TPI ex-serviceman with no other means than his war pension will, with his wife, receive a total income in war and service pensions of $77.79 which, I emphasise, will be free of taxation. This is an increase of $11.50 a week and brings this couple into an income level comparable with quite a number of wage and salary earners. When added to the value of the fringe benefits for which the TPI ex-serviceman is eligible - such as free medical treatment, concessional fees for radio and television licences, telephone rental concession and others- the extent of the Government's recognition both in money and in kind becomes very substantial. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting I had mentioned 3 aspects of the Government's repatriation proposals. Firstly, I drew attention to the great breadth of the repatriation proposals. Secondly, I said, probably in the form of an exhortation, that these proposals should not be considered in isolation but in the context of what the Government has done in the repatriation field during the life of this Parliament. I think I demolished the argument that the Government's proposals amounted to election gimmickry by pointing out the amount of money which ha» been spent on repatriation over recent years. I pointed out that in 1969-70 the amount of $3 17m was expended and in 1971-72 the amount was $377. 6m, which is an increase of $60m. The total Government commitment on repatriation for this year under the proposals now before the House will amount to $41 8.9m which is an increase of only $41m last year compared with $60m in the previous year. 
In his second reading speech the Minister gave some examples of the new benefits. I think we have to consider the new benefits such as the provision for home nursing care. This is another example of the Government's concern for the most seriously disabled TPI and intermediate rate pensioners and its concern for the widows of deceased ex-servicemen as well as its interest in the welfare of that small and very wonderful band of women who served overseas as nurses during World War I. The extension of this additional benefit will undoubtedly be welcomed by ex-service organisations, particularly war widows organisations, because the new provisions will remove the major problem of the financial burden of nursing home care for chronic illness cases. In this new field the Government is continuing to honour its undertaking and the undertaking of previous parliaments and previous governments to look after the most seriously disabled ex-servicemen and to care for the widows of those men whose deaths were the result of their service to their country. 1 should like to mention at this stage the reaction to these proposals by various organisations, including the War Widows Guild. That organisation appears to be particularly pleased with the proposals relating to nursing home care. The Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association of Australia in various instances has expressed its appreciation. It makes one feel quite small when a totally and permanently disabled ex-servicemen's association expresses some form of appreciation. The general reaction which I have encountered from various sub-branches of the Returned Services League indicates that they are satisfied with the proposals. I understand that the last issue of 'Reveille', which I have not seen but which I have been told about, expresses this view. 
It is interesting to look at these new proposals in terms of the percentage increases in the benefits. The Minister has drawn attention to this and it bears repeating. The TPI rate has increased in 3 years by 33.3 per cent. The war widows pension rate in the last 3 years has gone up by one-third. With regard to the children of deceased servicemen, who died as a result of war service, for the first child there has been an increase of 36.1 per cent and 1 am glad to see that for the second child and subsequent children the increase has been 72.9 per cent. For children who have lost the support of both parents there has been an increase over the last 3 years, the life of this Parliament, of 44.8 per cent. 
I should like to refer to the number of people who are affected by the proposed increases. The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech a figure of over 300,000 ex-servicemen and women or their dependants. I would like to mention one or two others. This is taken from the special Budget edition of the repatriation newsletter. The number who will benefit from an increase in the general rate is 190,880. Those who will benefit from an increase in the domestic allowance number 49,000. The number of war widows who will benefit total 50,000. Those on the standard service pension on the maximum rate who will benefit total 35,500. The married recipients who will benefit from the increases total 25,500. Undoubtedly a lot of people will benefit from these proposals. 
Looking at the total commitment to repatriation services in terms of dollars, the Bill before the House and the regulations which are forecast in the Minister's second reading speech will mean an additional expenditure of SI 4. 8m for the remainder of this year or $20m in a full year. In the Niemyer statement, which  I  generally carry with me and which sets out the Commonwealth financial transactions in terms of receipts and expenditure the total expenditure for repatriation services is shown as $388. 326m. To obtain a full picture, if we add on to that amount the administrative expenses of the Department, which are set out in a separate table attached to the Budget and amount to a further $20.8m, and the cost of capital works and services under the control of not only the Repatriation Department but also the Department of Works and the Department of the Interior we find that there is a total expenditure of $41 8.9m. That is the total Government commitment on repatriation for this year. The number of people employed in the Repatriation Department is just under 10,000, with a very high .percentage - two-thirds of them - working in the hospital and medical areas. 
I should like to refer to that aspect of the proposals which deals with pensions, allocated according to rank. I am glad to see that this concept will be abolished. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
General rate war .pensions are presently payable at different levels, according to the ranks held during service. The Government considers that the principle of equal compensation for equal incapacity justifies abolishing these different levels and replacing them with a standard rate general pension of $14 a week at the 100 per cent level. 
Clause 9 of the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 sets out how this will be carried out. As far as the general rate of pension is concerned, irrespective of rank the pension to be payable will be $28 a fortnight to a totally incapacitated member. According to column 3 in the table set out in clause 19 war widows except widows of members of the rank of captain - that is in the Navy - colonel, group captain and relative ranks  will receive $40 a fortnight. There is a difference of about 10c but we will not argue about that. It is very close to being on the same level. Column 2 shows that the pension payable to a widowed mother is not affected. This brings me to that part of the Minister's second reading speech where he said: 
War widows are al present paid war pensions at different levels according to the ranks held by their deceased husbands during war service. Consistent with a change of policy in relation to general rate pensions, to which I have already referred, and- 
I emphasise this part - with a view to eventually abolishing all distinctions of this nature, pensions at all levels other than the highest will be increased to the same level of $20 a week. 
I emphasise the phrase 'with a view to eventually abolishing all distinctions of this nature'. The sooner that is done, the better it will be. Undoubtedly it will be done in the next Budget. I want now to refer to investigations being conducted. Reference has been made to the inquiry by a Senate select committee. All honourable members know that the National Executive of the Returned Services League fostered a move to have an independent non-parliamentary committee set up. The objectives, generally speaking, were to review completely the operation of the Repatriation Act; generally to review the war and service pension rates; and to see whether repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits should be extended to all returned exservicemen from the Boer War or World War I, disregarding any connection between disability and illness on the one hand, and war service on the other hand. In October last year  Mr Justice  Toose, C.B.E., was nominated to carry out the inquiry. He has been given extensive terms of reference. 
I am glad to be able to say that I know  Mr Justice  Toose personally. I have served with him. I know that whatever comes out of the inquiry, it will be based on the evidence. Many people will be pleased, some will be displeased. That goes without saying. I look forward to a very solid report coming from  Mr Justice  Toose. I have seen the workings of the repatriation scheme from several viewpoints. I have seen the scheme firstly as one of the taxpaying public; secondly, as  president  of an RSL sub-branch; thirdly, as a member of Parlia ment; and fourthly, as a pensioner. 1 deplore the attack on the functioning of the Repatriation Act which was launched by members of the Australian Medical Association. I do not want to say much about it because I know the members serving on the Senate select committee inquiring into repatriation and I know  Mr Justice  Toose, and I have no doubt that  Mr Justice  Toose and the Senate committee will know how to assess the value of the evidence before them and how to establish the correct order of value when they arrive at their findings. The Toose report and any action which flows from it lie in the future. In the meantime, the Bill that the Minister has put before the House today, for which he is to be commended, goes a long way in standing up to our responsibility to the ex-servicemen and exservice women of Australia, their widows and their dependants. In my opinion wc can never repay the genuine cases who have been left with a legacy of pain and suffering for which the whole of mankind is responsible. I support the Bill. 
Will the Minister for the Army Indicate the intent, as well as any expense involved, in the naming of the new Army helicopter the 'Kalkadoon'? 
I join with previous speakers in their remarks of condolence and address my remarks mainly to a previous member for Calare, the  Hon.  H. V. C. 
Thorby, who died early in January at the grand old age of 85. Vic Thorby started life as a small farmer. He later developed experience in the building trade and also gained experience and knowledge in architecture.  His  outstanding ability soon drew him into his industry organisation and he became State  President  of the Farmers and Settlers Association in 1926-27. He was on the State Council of the New South Wales Graziers Association for 3 years from 1952 to 1955. As honourable members have heard, his concern in general for the problems of the rural community resulted in his election to the State Parliament as the member for Wammerawa in 1922 and later as the member for Castlereagh. It has been stated already that he was the State Minister for Agriculture. 
I think full credit must go to him as a Minister for consolidating the various branches of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture by having constructed the persent building which stands in Farrer Place, Sydney, and which gave the Department of Agriculture, which was just a group of separate entities, its own permanent home as a single entity. He was the State Chairman of the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission for 3 years. He was later elected to the division of Calare and served as the member for Calare from December 1931 until his defeat in September 1940. His ministerial portfolios have already been enumerated. Although 1940 was a long time ago, many people among the older generation in the division of Calare will remember Vic Thorby and his work. They remember him as a man of very high principles which he employed in all his dealings. He was a man of a very high standard of honesty and straightforward approach. He did so much of his work in the great depression when he fought a tremendous fight. He is recognised for this particularly among primary producers in the rural community. The fruit growers of Orange in particular will know of the concentration of effort he made on their behalf. So we see the passing of a splendid Australian who lived a long life of service to his fellow men. I join with the many people who are extending sympathy to the ones that he left behind and also extend appreciation for the life work of Victor Thorby. 
I address my question to the Minister for External Territories. As a preface I state that it is a well established practice for senators and members of the Commonwealth and State parliaments to attend Anzac Day commemoration services throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. Does the new Government intend this year to carry on with the longestablished custom of arranging for a delegation to attend the various ceremonies near the battlefields and war cemeteries of World War II in the Commonwealth Territory of Papua New Guinea? 
My question is also- 
The Australian Country Party has taken note of the proposed new times of sitting, and it opposes them on 2 grounds. The first is the inconvenience of travel caused not only to members of my Party but also to many other people in this House. The second ground is that the Opposition will be denied  the time to study  the heavy stream of legislation which will be brought in. This proposal was made fairly quickly. It was suggested at 6.15 last night. It was hard to get my Party together to discuss it due to functions that were on last night, the meeting of the House and commitments this morning. As my Party's Whip it has been made very clear to me already that considerable inconvenience will be caused to members of my Party by these new sitting hours. 1 am not altogether sure that a great deal of consideration has been given to the convenience of people who live long distances from Canberra. That remark applies to honourable members from all parties and from all States. This arrangement will be inconvenient to honourable members who live in rural areas and those, wherever they live, who have already entered into commitments in rural areas. It will also be very inconvenient and upsetting to the people with whom those arrangements have been made. 
On behalf of my Party I acknowledge that we have appreciated the achievement of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  as Leader of the House in being able to get us home at 1 1 o'clock at night. This has happened in the first 7 sitting weeks of the Parliament. I do not think that anybody here would have thought that this was likely to go on towards the end of the session when the work thickened up. The proposed Tuesday morning sittings would seriously inconvenience members of my Party particularly in relation to travel and commitments already entered into. In regard to Wednesday mornings, I think it is an important factor that 90 Bills are being introduced in this session of Parliament and, in fairness to the public and democratic rights, all of these require close attention and study clause by clause. The legislative commitments are very heavy. My Party met yesterday morning and the meeting continued until after 1p.m. That is the normal practice for us on a Wednesday. We will be denied that right on a Wednesday and there will be no other time to make it up. The Bills being introduced require really mature and extensive consideration by us on behalf of the people we represent. There will not be a great deal of change on Thursday mornings. 
The provision.il advice we received in the early stages was that the session would last until about 24th May. If the usual warning was not there, it was implied, as always, that this would not necessarily be the concluding day of the session. That date was given as a guide. Over the 12 years that I have been in this Parliament I remember the tremendous upheaval there was from the present Government when it was in Opposition when the previous Government tried to alter the hours to get the work finished by the end of the session. Honourable members opposite shed crocodile tears at that time. I am not shedding crocodile tears. I am putting forward 2 solid factors as to why my Party thinks that these times are not acceptable. My Party is ready to sit for longer periods and on more days. On those grounds we oppose the new hours. 
As a preface to my question which I direct to the Minister for Health, I would like to say that I wanted to direct this question to the Minister for the Capital Territory to try to put his previous answers and statements into perspective. But the Minister for Health is responsible for the administration of health laws. Will the Minister inform the House how many people in the Australian Capital Territory have been sent to gaol for being involved in abortions? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. In reply to a question in this House on 28 February last the Prime Minister stated that he and the Premier of New South Wales had agreed to a feasibility study for a regional growth centre in the Orange-Bathurst area with a view to joint CommonwealthState financial participation in the development of the centre. After a speech at Bathurst in March the Prime Minister was reported as saying that this report would be given to him and to the State Premier by the end of the month - that was March. Has .the report been tendered to the Government and to  Sir Robert  Askin and, if so, will it be made public? Also, when will a Commonwealth decision be made on assistance for the project already commenced by the New South Wales Government? Can an announcement be expected before the end of this session? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented quite grievously. Last night, in the debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  with his responsible position as Leader of the House and his usual tirade against the Country Party, said: 
From memory, not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than 50 per cent of the primary votes before being elected to this Parliament. Of course they get more than SO per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. 
I see that the Minister prefaced that statement by saying 'from memory'. I rise to jog his memory. In my case it is correct that preferences were counted in the election of 1960. But in the elections of 1961, 1963, 1966, 1969 and 1972 I received the support of my constituents to the extent of an absolute majority. In 1966 I received a record majority for my electorate of some 10,000 votes. I have a list of Country Party members who, if they can- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I think the honourable member has made his position clear. It is not a matter of making a case for the Country Party. The honourable member has been misrepresented. I think he has made his position clear and that is all that the House requires. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I thought I could save the time of the House. There are 11 other Country Party members who will rise and make the same personal explanation as I did.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you would permit me to mention those members it would save the time of the House. That is what I am concerned about. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  towards the end of his speech referred to the matter of the allocation of funds for a hospital in the area covered by the Paramatta byelection and to local government funds also for the western suburbs, 
If I have misled anybody I correct it by saying that it is in an area which is greatly influenced by the Parramatta byelection. I shall also refer to the allocation of local government funds in the western suburbs of Sydney. These to me are some of the cheapest political motives one could possibly bring forward. I know that the people in the Parramatta electorate will express their opinion on them on election day. I say immediately that I oppose the Bill and support the amendment for the 8 good reasons which have been laid down in the amendment put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and for other reasons also. It would be absurd, I am sure, to deny that sections of the Budget would meet with the approval of the Australian public. I point to the question of education where there has been an increase of 92 per cent in the total funds made available. I will make further comment at a later stage on the spending of those funds. 
Quite a substantial change is proposed in some aspects of social services, or social security as it is known nowadays. Surely the change in name was an exercise in semantics. Given those 2 factors, in the Budget Speech several matters stand starkly outlined. 'First of all, there is evidence of an unbelievable antipathy, amounting almost to a hatred, on the part of the Government to those people who have not been attracted by the drift to the cities and who have elected to carry on their lives work in non-metropolitan areas of the Commonwealth. As I say, this attitude amounts almost to a hate of country areas. This is the feeling that is coming through to people in nonmetropolitan areas. 
The second aspect highlighted in many phases of the Budget Speech is the penalty which is inflicted by this Government on success in any form at all. We pride ourselves in this country on our independence of spirit. We pride ourselves on our ability or desire to have a go. We are quick to encourage the underdog and to see him come through and get up and triumph over whatever handicaps he has faced. As I see it, many of the provisions of this Budget react against success. It penalises those people who, by their own ability and sacrifice, have won their way to a more secure position. To me this latter tendency is a most dangerous one for the future of our nation. If I were asked to illustrate a third factor I would quickly indicate the acceleration towards centralisation in government - the erosion of State rights. The fourth aspect I would highlight is the deception, almost dishonesty, which is now apparent in respect of some of the election bait which was cast out on 2 December last. 
Taking these matters out of order I will deal first with centralism. The Commonwealth Constitution lays down very clearly that the Commonwealth has 39 powers. Following the last referendum the number of powers may now  total  40. The figure that I have given is substantially correct. The powers are very clearly outlined and expressed. I know that the States have power to delegate responsibilities. I am not saying that the Government has acted against the provisions of the Constitution - that is something which is challengeable at law - 'but I do say that the Government acted very much against the spirit' of the Constitution. The tied grants, as they have grown in this Parliament over the years and as they are being perpetuated very strongly by this Government, in fact amount to a form of duress on State governments to hand over some of their rights. 
In my term in this Parliament, since 1960, I have seen at least 3 new departments set up under the previous Government. One was the Department of Education and Science which grew from the Office of Education. The others were the Department of Tourism and the Department of Housing. But the creation of these new departments was just playboy stuff compared with what has happened since 2 December. I do not know accurately the total number of departments. I did not do my homework on it. But I think it runs to about 37. A tremendous increase has occurred and a number of the new departments deal substantially with matters which are the prerogative of the States under the spirit of the Constitution. I am reminded of a speech I heard in Kings Hall when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was welcoming a New Zealand delegation to this Parliament. The Prime Minister - and this should be known by everyone - complimented New Zealand on its outstanding democratic system - one Parliament, no states; one House, no bicameral system or House of review- 
That is right. I hope that interjection is recorded. The Prime Minister complimented New Zealand on its 2 party system with no minor parties and its first past the post voting. Let Australia, as a nation, never forget that. I acknowledged earlier the advances proposed in education. The allocation made in this field this financial year is 92 per cent greater than the amount appropriated last financial year. This nation seethes today about the injustice of some of the new provisions contained in legislation emanating from the Department of Education. It seethes with indignation at the proposed methods of distribution of funds by way of aid to independent schools. I think that the Government should note that all of the criticism does not come from those people who have been deprived. It comes from others who are ready to admit, have admitted and continue to admit, that the present arrangement is discriminatory. 
I enjoyed 12 years of service as a lay representative of a synod of my church before I entered this Parliament. I mention that fact for this reason: Every year in that synod we were confronted with the tormenting problem of trying to balance the statements of receipts and expenditure and the balance sheet for the 2 schools of the diocese. The 2 schools are still functioning. The 2 schools are not in my electorate. I am not being parochial. But I mention them as examples from my experience. They are All Saints College in Bathurst and the Marsden School for Girls. I am glad to say that these schools through good management, through dedication on the part of many, including the school council, the staff and those supporting them, through sacrificial giving and by the grace of God have lived through the times that they have been called on to survive. The schools have lived through a tremendous rural recession in the course of which it was quite common for children to be taken from their school and to remain at home. If it had not been for the fact that more city children than usual were attracted to these country schools and for the many instances of the influx of Asian students to these schools, the schools would have gone to the wall before now. 
I remember the election promise of the Australian Labor Party that there would be no reduction in the aid to independent schools. Government supporters can say that the total allocation may or may not be more than last year. But why has the Government departed from the most equitable system that we can possibly have in which we think of boys and girls intead of bricks, mortar and buildings for the per capita basis of allocation of funds. I say that this has been a deception. Once again we see the penalty for success. 
The ramifications and the probable repercussions of the universal health insurance scheme are too wide to cover at the moment. I should like to touch upon them in the debate on the Estimates. However, there are one or two things I would like to say in passing. Why should the higher income groups pay more for the cure of the same illness? Here again is the penalty of success. It might not be a very big point, but why is the Government discriminating against radio and television in the banning of the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco? Why was not such advertising banned in the Press, the glossy magazines and with respect to the great sporting features including golf tournaments, football knock-out competitions, tennis tournaments and all the other gimmicks used to advertise cigarettes? Why did the Government discriminate in that manner? 
I have always opened my election campaigns on the subject of defence. The defence and the feeding and clothing of people, I feel, are the first duties of any government. I have much to say on defence. I prefer to leave my comments at the moment until the estimates for the Department of Defence are considered. I should like to refer now to two other matters. It is hard to place them in order of importance. The priorities are hard to distinguish. I will refer firstly to the education of the young and the care of the aged and then pass on to economics, particularly the economics of our great export and primary industries and the hate which is seen to develop against anybody involved in those pursuits. 
It was quite apparent in the Budget and also from replies given by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to questions that the belief in the mind of the Government today is that one good season for primary industry will solve all its problems. The people in the western area of my electorate have had little income for 3 years. They had great stock losses and today they have to re-stock at a time of high market prices. There is a really strong indication right through that the attitude of the Government is that all is well with primary industry. What is the situation? 
There has been a change in seasonal conditions in areas which have been drought stricken for some considerable period. This Government, despite its claims and despite some of the rude jokes which are going around about walking on the water and so on, has had nothing to do with the change in the seasonal conditions. The price of meat has gone up. Again no claim could be made by this Government for a change in that field. It is due to a world shortage of protein foodstuffs. In regard to the price of wool, again no claim could be made by this Government because the price of wool started to turn when the previous Liberal-Country Party Government established, against much opposition in this House, the Australian Wool Commission. The price of wheat has risen. Again the Government can make no claim for that because it is due to a world grain shortage. At last there is a situation in which people can get a turnover in agricultural and pastoral land. Those people who were so near the bottom that they elected to get out could at least get out with some equity and some dignity. 
I would like the country haters just to take notice of the total gross rural indebtedness. In June 1971 it was $2,973m. In June 1972 it had jumped to $3,293m. The figures for this year are as yet unpublished. The Treasurer in a speech to the Co-operative Federation of Australia on 25 August last said: 
In the Budget Speech I indicated that a fresh, direct approach was to be taken to problems in these rural areas. 
He used the words 'fresh' and 'direct'. What have we got? We have a 1-year wheat stabilisation scheme, for some remarkable reason. 
That could be correct. There is a 1-year scheme instead of the normal 5-year scheme which undoubtedly would have come forward by arrangement with the Government and the industry if the LiberalCountry Party Government had been in office. The people have seen continued revaluation. There was the 7.05 per cent in December last. The Government waited for 2 months and gave us another 11.1 per cent and now there is a 5 per cent revaluation. We are faced with the phasing out of the bounty on the production of butter, cheese and processed milk products, a tax on the export of meat, the recouping from the beef industry of the cost of the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis and today we see in the Press - it is remarkable that we get our information from the Press rather than from statements made in the House - an announcement on the abolition of export incentives for one of our major export income earners, meat. Is this a fresh, direct approach? I say it is direct but as for fresh I think there is an unpleasant aroma about it. 
The Australian primary producer is acknowledged - and we make the claim here and we keep on making it because it is never denied - as the most efficient producer in the world on world standards. He cannot control all his input costs irrespective of how efficient he is. He sells on the open market. While those conditions apply he has to stand up, hold his head high and fight for bounties, price supports, subsidies, disability payments - call them what you like - and I say that they must be continued. He is not on his own in that regard. It is not just the Australian farmer who is in that situation. He joins producers in other parts of the world who are acknowledged as having particularly highly efficient producers. The United States of America has a history of assistance for its wheat industry, flour, lard, poultry, some of the cotton varieties - the longer staples I think they are - rice, tobacco, certain oil seeds, the production qf non-fat dried milk and some feed grain. Assistance is given in respect of all those things in the great country of the United States of America. In the United Kingdom there is a history of guaranteed prices and deficiency payments. The entry of Britain into the European Economic Community, of course, will rapidly change the method of assistance into reliance on minimum import prices and substantial import levies. Nevertheless it will be Government assistance. 
In Canada massive assistance is given by way of subsidised freight and subsidised storage costs for feed grains. There is also crop failure assistance, quality premiums on hogs, as they call them in that country, and lambs. There are also support programs for wool and dairy production, fruit and vegetables, eggs, poultry - this is not assistance for just one industry but practically the lot - sugar beet and a number of other products. In Japan there are also special support measures in respect of rice, wheat, barley, sweet and white potatoes, sugar, soya bean, rape seed, raw silk, milk products and pork. Once again assistance is given practically right across the board. In Denmark, a country which people put forward as being such an efficient producer, there are substantial cash subsidies on milk production, fertiliser costs and other support measures on various meats, eggs, various grains, skim milk powder and so on. I have not dealt with France or other countries. That is just a selection. That is the pattern throughout the world and it is a pattern which we must continue to follow in this country and one which this Party is anxious and willing to preserve and will continue to fight for on behalf of the great people engaged in those industries. 
I think there has been quite a bit of dishonesty in regard to the election promises. One promise was the abolition of the means test during the life of this Parliament. Today legislation was introduced abolishing the means test for people 75 years and over. But a means test will still apply by way of taxation on pensions. There is a means test on education. This was mentioned in the Karmel report. There is a means test on the secondary allowances scheme in the field of education. Finally this Government has come down to the low ebb of putting out its hand and placing a means test on the kids' milk. I oppose the Bill and I support the amendment. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour. On 26 September he said in answer to a question that the Government would discontinue the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme despite the fact that some 8,800 people were still on relief. He further stated that in special areas of distress or areas with a great degree of unemployment the Government was prepared to consider cases on their merits. I ask: What action has the Department taken to notify the States or local government authorities that this special relief is available and of the method of obtaining it? When will the new scheme be in operation? Is it not an inhumane act to discontinue one scheme of needed relief before the details and timing of an alternative scheme are formulated? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is it intended that the Bureau of Transport Economics will carry out, or is it carrying out now, an independent inquiry into rail freights on wheat from point of receival to seaboard, which freight is at present paid in full by the grower and in most instances costs the grower the equivalent of one full crop out of five produced? If so, when does the Minister expect to receive the report? 
Is the Minister for Labour aware of the shortage, amounting almost to total absence, of female assistance in one of the most honourable occupations that a young lady can take up, that of mothers' help or the rendering of assistance to overworked housewives who do not have access to arbitration and conciliation? Is he aware that this type of assistance is practically non-existent in country areas? Will he discuss this matter with his colleague the Minister for Immigration and point out that the most favourable place for a migrant girl to become proficient in the 
English language and to learn of the Australian way of life is in the shelter of an Australian home? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish. to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I asked a question in question time of the Minister for Labour. First, he claimed that my question was inaudible. That is the first time I have ever been accused in this House of being inaudible. In any case, if the Minister could not hear me he might have asked me to repeat my question rather than go on in the way he did. He said, if I remember the words correctly: 'If he wants cheap labour for that purpose - '. My question did not mention cheap labour and I will tell him that at closer range afterwards if he cannot hear me now. My question did not mention cheap labour nor did it imply cheap labour. If the Minister will confer with officers of his Department he will find that domestic labour is scarce at the wages recommended by the Department. I found the answer grossly offensive, but that,  Mr Speaker  was not surprising. 
I address a question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. I say by way of explanation that it is well known that the economicuplift in Japan over the last several decades has enabled the population to increase its intake of protein foodstuffs, leading to the addition of larger quantities of beef to the previous staple diet of rice and fish. So it is possible for a nation to change its eating habits within a short period of time. My question to the Minister is: As Arab oil exporting countries are accumulating tremendous reserves of wealth, does this not point to u big potential market for Australian beef if religious reservations or restraints can be overcomefor example, by the employment of a few Middle East slaughtermen in Australian exporting abattoirs to carry out the actual killing of the beasts in accordance with the tenets of their religion? Is the Minister aware of any efforts by the industry to build up this market or are any efforts being directed by his Department in this field? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does information from the Australian Embassy in Saigon confirm reports that since the signing of the Paris agreements of 1973 over 28,000 Government soldiers have been killed by North Vietnamese forces within the borders of South Vietnam? Is the fighting strength of Hanoi and Russian-backed North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam now estimated at about 300,000 better prepared and better supplied than ever before? Does this indicate that Hanoi believes in the concept that political power grows out of the barrel of a gun? Will the Prime Minister make a statement in the House to inform it of the position in both Vietnam and Cambodia and any action that Australia is taking, for instance in the United Nations, to enforce the Paris agreements? 
-This increase in the daily hours of sitting is of concern to me. I want to put forward a different angle in the debate. I listened with interest to the remarks of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I think that my  Deputy  Leader put the position adequately and well. I want to refer to the work load of members of Parliament generally. It could be said, generally speaking, that the work load of a member could be divided into 4 different phases of activity. There are the activities here in Canberra, the time that a member spends in his electorate, the time that a member spends within the Commonwealth but not necessarily within his electorate and finally, as we are a national Parliament, the time that a member spends doing things in the international field. 
I deal first with the Canberra aspect. I am sure that the visiting public and those listening to broadcasts of the proceedings periodically express disappointment at the number of members who are in the chamber. It should be known that this has been brought about by a number of different changes that have come about over the years- the growth in the volume of legislation which we are handling, the extensions of the field in which we are legislating and the growth of the committee system. Might I mention to the Minister for Services and Property and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that this change will make a big difference to the statutory committees. A number of people are involved with the work of the statutory committees, which normally meet on Tuesday mornings. 
I estimate that in the 14 years that I have been a member of this Parliament the amount of work that passes through a member's hands has practically doubled. The Government prides itself on the amount of work it puts through. I think it ought to place itself in a position where it can pride itself on the quality of the legislation that passes through the House and on the opportunity it gives to members to debate it. The increased work load is making it extremely difficult for members to study proposed legislation and to do work in their own electorates. 
Speaking on the subject of the extension of the field of work, I was critical of the present Opposition Parties when they were in government for their centralist policies which created departments of education, housing and tourism. When I entered Parliament there was an Office of Education but nothing for tourism or housing. The present Government has added many new departments. It has created departments for the environment, recreation and the media. Name a field and it has a department to deal with it. This creates additional work for members of Parliament. Those of us who represent rural areas- I cannot speak for those representing city electorates- find that we are expected to deal, in consideration of the Regional Employment Development Scheme, with the merits and demerits of kerbing and guttering in villages, the eradication of noxious weeds, the construction of horse stalls and toilet blocks, to name but a few of the many works that we must consider. The load is increasing tremendously all the time. 
I turn to the committee system and refer to an undesirable practice that has developed. Some committees are being forced to meet during the sitting hours of the House. I cannot simply suggest that we abandon the idea of additional sitting hours, as proposed by the Minister. However, I want to put the issue in a light in which it can be considered in conjunction with all the other work required of members. I think it is getting to a stage where it is impossible for members representing the bigger electorates- I highlight that problem- to get here on time. 
If the Government intends to force this motion through- which I feel it has the numbers to do- I would like the Leader of the House- I think he would be the appropriate person to respond to this suggestion- to consider providing additional staff for members. The Government intends taking members away from their electorates for four weeks and three weeks at a time. Unless further staff is provided, we will have to cease these longer sittings. I ask that consideration be given to the provision of additional assistance. I thank the Minister for what he has done already in this regard. I have availed myself of the temporary assistance that he has made available to us. However, the degree of assistance has to be increased, particularly if we continue to impose longer sitting hours and more sitting weeks. None of these changes will come about quickly. My wish was to place on record the constantly increasing workload. If this motion to extend the sitting hours is pushed through, more consideration must be given to the flow of work in our electorates. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I welcome the amendment before the Committee and I support it, both because of the increase in the total amount which is available for the bounty and because the 3 major refrigeration compressor manufacturers are all now on an equal footing. I regret that when the BUI originally went through I was not in the chamber, being overseas on parliamentary duties. I support the BUI in the belief that the three major manufacturing companies, that is Kelvinator Aust. Ltd, Kirby 
Refrigeration Units Pty Ltd and Email Ltd are now on an equal footing. As the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out, there has been a quite considerable change in cost factors and those cost factors at the moment are sufficiently high, and they are escalating, to make sure that we do not without some understandable reason in any way discriminate between companies and so exacerbate the difficulties which are being experienced. 
I emphasise the fact that the amendment restores the status quo which the BUI would have affected. It does nothing in itself to improve the situation with regard to this section of the home appliance industry. Without departing too far from the amendment, I point out that the troubles in that section of the industry are very substantial. There are three major causes- the increasing cost factor, the loss of confidence in the retail trade, which is particularly apparent where home appliances are concerned, and the whittling away of the measure for protection against the influx into Australia of home appliances from cheaper labour countries overseas. I am most concerned at the damage which has already been done by this cost escalation. I speak as a representative of an area where a factory which normally employs 2100 people now employs 1600 people. The loss to the families of the 500 people who are now unemployed is a bad one. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I, like many others- the Miscellaneous Workers Union, among others- have made representations to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on this subject. I put forward 4 suggestions. One related to the outcome of the Refrigeration Compressors Bounty Bill which we are now discussing. The second suggestion related to an application for import quotas or further tariff protection. The third related to a scheme to assist nonmetropolitan industries requiring structural change-such as the company in my electorate -as a result of Government policy enactments. I asked also that the Government give consideration to a loan of cheap money to that company in my electorate so that it could continue manufacturing and stockpiling to maintain its work force. I support the amendment and I urge the Government to give consideration to those other 3 measures which I have already suggested. 
-As one who has had an active interest in this piece of legislation, I fully understand that this is a procedural motion we are going through now. I made my comments on a past occasion and I do not intend to add to them. I appreciate the fact that the Government has seen fit to have a second look at this matter and has reached this conclusion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture: Has expenditure on the national brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign been curtailed? Is the brucellosis and tuberculosis trust account in deficit? Is this caused mainly by the rundown in meat exports? Is the deficit causing a falling off in the effectiveness of the campaign? Will the Federal Government consider further increases in its contribution to the fund to make good the loss of income due to low meat exports, and strengthen this fighting fund in the national interest? 
-I move: 
That  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I regard it as being an honour to commend to you and to the House the appointment of  Mr Philip  Ernest Lucock, Commander of the Order of the British Empire and the honourable member for Lyne, as the  Chairman  of Committees of this House. For the smooth and efficient running of the House I think we should be looking at the aspect of service. In this respect I do not intend to go into such detail as did the honourable member for La Trobe. Service falls into 2 parts. Over a period of 23 years,  Mr Lucock  has provided a fully effective service to those whom he represents in his electorate of Lyne. It is not given to many to have the opportunity of serving the people for such a length of time. As we all know, periodically we have to face the public. The people of Lyne have continued to send  Mr Lucock  back to this place to serve them. Over that period he has demonstrated without doubt a knowledge of and an ability in relation to matters of Federal import over a very wide field. 
Further, and more importantly, I refer to the qualifications he has for the specific task for which I have had the honour to nominate him. He served for a record term in the history of this Parliament- I emphasise that- as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. That service commenced from 8 March 1961 and, without going into further detail as to the exact date, I emphasise that it continued for a period of approximately 12 years. In addition he was associated with the work of the Chair in this Parliament before he was appointed  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees and he has been associated with it since that time, and this has given him an association either as a  Deputy Chairman,  of Committees or, as the position used to be called, a Temporary  Chairman,  and then  Chairman  of 1 7 or 1 8 years in all. There are many members of this Parliament who have witnessed the efficient and impartial manner in which  Mr Lucock  has conducted his work from the Chair. 
I would like to go to the words not of somebody from his own political party but of somebody from outside it. I refer to the last election of a  Chairman  of Committees when the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said:  . . . having seen both contenders for the position in operation in the chair both as the  deputy  of the  Speaker  and as the  Chairman  of Committees, I would find it very difficult, I suppose, to choose between them in respect of their competency. The honourable member for Lyne during the period of his occupancy of the chair, in my view, performed very fairly and within the Standing Orders. 
The person with whom he was comparing him,  Sir, was  you. I feel that that speaks for itself. The honourable member's record is a magnificent one; it would be very hard to beat. I firmly believe that that record will be added to on a further occasion. I commend to the House the appointment of  Mr Lucock  to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. 
