Yes, 1 have been misrepresented,  Sir. It  has been stated in Melbourne and Brisbane newspapers that I am a member of a group styled a 'ginger group'. I am not and never have been a member of a fungi club, any clique or caterpillar club in my life. 
Can the Minister for Labour and National Service inform the House of the outcome of stop work meetings by several branches of the Waterside Workers Federation yesterday? Will there be a 5-day stoppage on the waterfront? 
 I rise to compliment the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  upon bringing the Bill forward so quickly. 1 should also like to congratulate the acting Head of the Attorney-General's Department,  Mr John  Ewens. I know that for some time  Mr Ewens  has worked very hard on the concept and thoughts embodied in the Bill and on its development. I congratulate him upon the long hours of work and thought that he has given to this new move. The establishment of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel will give the drafting section a status and will bring this important section of government services closer to the Parliament. In support of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  I make this short comment: To make the Office of Parliamentary Counsel as successful as we all want it to be it will be necessary for the Public Service Board to co-operate to its fullest in obtaining officers of the necessary quality who will be working under the First Parliamentary Counsel and to see that satisfactory remuneration is given for their important skills. 
The Attorney-General, in his second reading speech, quoted very briefly Professor Reed Dickerson, Professor of Law at Indiana University. I should like to enlarge on that quotation because I think it would be worthwhile. The Professor said:  lt would be hard to exaggerate the importance of knowing how to prepare an adequate legal instrument. This is particularly true of statutes: Sound government depends upon legislation that says the right thing in the right way, in language that is as clear, simple, and accessible as possible. There must be draftsmen who can provide these things with the least friction and delay. 
Good draftsmen are badly needed. This is not generally realised because the drafting skill is more subtle and copes with problems more difficult than surface appearances suggest. Legal drafting, like teaching, looks easy. But, as with teaching, the answers are rarely clear cut. The test  of  success is usually someone's individual judgment. 
Legal drafting is not for children, amateurs, or dabblers. It is a highly technical discipline, the most rigorous form of writing outside  of  mathematics. Few lawyers have the special combination of skills, aptitude and temperament necessary for a competent draftsman. This is due partly to inadequate training. More fundamental is the widespread misunderstanding of what adequate draftsmanship involved. 
One of the most baffling aspects of the problem is the difficulty of convincing those in whose hands the solution lies that the problem is hard and, even more basic, that any problem exists. I have discussed the matter with many lawyers, government officials and law professors. I meet few who do not consider themselves well-trained, and even expert draftsmen. That the average lawyer or law professor senses little inadequacy either in himself or among bar members generally may explain the condescension they often show. 
In the past, and here in this Parliament, there have been times when the parliamentary draftsmen have been blamed for the tardiness in their operation though, in fact, the fault has not been with them but with the haphazard way in which drafting instructions have been given by the various departments. I believe this has been improved of late and I am sure that the heads of departments will see that it continues to improve when they work in conjunction with the new Parliamentary Counsel. I once again compliment the Attorney-General on the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether it is true that 13 British and European shipping firms have agreed to form a consortium and to pool their container ships in a single fleet with a unified marketing and sales organisation. Is this fleet to be called the Australian Container Services and will this consortium be a threat to new container ship construction? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. Has any date yet been fixed for the regional conference which has been suggested by Indonesian Foreign Minister, Adam Malik? Has the Minister seen the recent report from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Embassy in Australia referring to the United States of America's interference in a civil war in Cambodia? Does this not follow the same pattern of propaganda which continually flowed from the same Embassy concerning the war in South Vietnam? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question. The Victorian Farmers Union is showing concern about the importation of potatoes from New Zealand. Will the Minister inform the House whether there is any cause for alarm on the part of growers in Australia and whether entry of New Zealand potatoes can be restricted by enforcement of quarantine regulations? 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. Recently this House was informed by the Minister for Primary Industry that an interdepartmental meeting was to take place to consider an application to import 500 tons of New Zealand potatoes. Can the Minister for Customs and Excise inform me now of any decision which may have been made as a result of this meeting? 
I present the second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question to the Postmaster-General is supplementary to the one asked by the honourable member for Evans. Will the Minister endeavour to arrange for the Cambodian students to appear on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 'Four Corners' programme? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Our minds of late have been somewhat centred on areas of conscience pertaining to our young national service trainees. Will the Minister give similar thought to our young men and women who, through conscience, do not wish to join a trade union or to pay a political levy? Having given this matter due consideration, will the Minister indicate what approaches can be made to the unions to remedy the situation? 
-I present the  third report of the Publications Committee. Report - by leave - adopted. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Defence a question. Further to a question previously asked by the honourable member for La Trobe I wish to ask the 
Minister: Can he inform the House whether any decision has yet been reached concerning pay for senior officers of the Citizen Military Forces? 
I present the fourth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
1 present the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I present the  sixth report of the Publications Committee. Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen Press reports concerning the likelihood of organised industrial trouble in the Australian vehicle manufacturing industry? Is  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, Assistant Federal Secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, said to be the inspiration behind this movement which is organised on the basis of shop committees? Is strike action by the shop committees in conflict with the policy of the individual trade unions and the trade union movement within Australia? What action has the Australian Council of Trade Unions taken to curb this strike programme which could throw many thousands of men out of work? 
I present the seventh report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I address a question to the Postmaster-General. In view of recent criticisms offered by artists and designers from both inside and outside Australia regarding the design of recent Australian stamps in respect of quality, clarity, appeal and the message to be conveyed in such design - and I refer now in particular to a recent stamp to commemorate 100 years of the existence of the Australian Natives Association - can the Postmaster-General inform the House whether, in future, greater consideration can be given to designs which have been prepared and submitted by the bodies involved in such a commemoration? 
In directing my question to the Prime Minister I refer to sporting or entertainment bodies visiting this country. Has the Prime Minister witnessed widespread protests against the Bolshoi Ballet or the Moscow Circus, especially in view of the cruel discrimination shown by Russia against religions, particularly the Jewish religion? 
 I present the eighth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. Is it a fact that a new roll-on roll-off Australian National Line ship is due to leave Sweden on 10th May for Australia? Has the left wing secretary of the Seamen's Union been given a first class round trip by air to Sweden to inspect this ship before her departure? Why could not the secretary have waited until the ship's arrival in Australia? Did the Australian National Line pay for this round first class air trip and is this another example of ship owners pandering to the left wing led maritime unions while they get tough with the more reasonable right wing unions? 
I present the ninth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to a recent statement accusing trade unions of using 19th century methods to achieve reforms? Can the Minister inform the House of his opinion and whether he believes the statement to be correct? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have pleasure in presenting the Tenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
House adjourned at 11.7 p.m. 
What information has the PostmasterGeneral to give to the House concerning an officer of the Australian Broadcasting Commission who, in the course of carving out his duties, is organising student unrest of a violent nature in many parts of Australia? 
Further to a: question I asked some days ago concerning an Australian Broadcasting Commission officer by the name of Cassidy, is the PostmasterGeneral in a position to inform the House whether this officer is still in the employ of the ABC? 
 I present the eleventh report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Housing whether he has seen a statement made by the Victorian Minister for Housing that the new Commonwealth-State housing arrangements could cause an increase in Victorian housing rentals. Does the Minister agree with the claim? Is it not a fact that the States will be better off under the new arrangement than they were previously? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Publications 1 present the Committee's report relating to the distribution and pricing of parliamentary publications, together with appendices and extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. I seek leave to. make a short statement in connection with the report. 
 I present the Twelfth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
-I  wish to direct a question to the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts. Is the Minister aware of a movement to curtail provincial performing arts presentations despite the liberal allocation of funds to opera and ballet, having in mind that country taxpayers also subscribe to this allocation? Will the Minister consider restoring these visits to the larger provincial centres, having in mind that Ballarat is the largest inland provincial centre in Australia outside Canberra? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of Ballarat, Victoria, respectfully showeth: 
That as  a  supposedly Christian nation in Asia we feel Australia should be setting the example in the efforts to avert possibly the worst avoidable disaster in human history. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will immediately increase aid for Pakistani refugee relief to at least $10 million. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether a request was received from the Malaysian Government for Sabre aircraft to be provided in addition to those which were supplied in 1969. Has a joint Royal Australian Air Force and Department of Supply team recently visited Malaysia for the purpose of discussing this request? If so, what further action is proposed in this matter? 
 I wish to ask a question of the Treasurer. The Treasurer will be aware of the September quarter official national income statistics issued by the Bureau of Census and Statistics yesterday. He may also be aware that a commentator this morning claimed that they show that the Treasury's diagnosis of consumer demand, and also that of the critics of the Treasury, have been faulty. Do these figures indicate that the economy is in a condition of no growth? 
1 direct my question to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Ails. A film  entitied  Stockade' was recently produced in Australia. Did the Australian Film Development Corporation and the Australian Council for the Arts each provide subsidies for this film? Did these Government bodies supervise or have any knowledge of the contents of this film before or. during its production? What steps, if any, can the 
Government now adopt to remove this film from circulation because of its immoral content? 
I present the Fourteenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Following the recent production and showing of the first feature film to be subsidised from public moneys, can the Minister assure the House that a closer watch will be kept in future to guard against Government subsidies being paid towards production of films which are regarded by a vast majority of people as being indecent? 
I wish to ask the Minister for the Interior a question. Is it permissible for members of the public to draw up caravans and camp outside Parliament House? 
I present the Fifteenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Housing. The Minister will be aware of a current visit to Australia by representatives of a West German trade union delegation who are here, among other things, to discuss housing finance proposals  by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Does the Federal Government have any objection to the entry of the ACTU into the housing finance field? Would such a scheme be of assistance to home buyers and would the ACTU be eligible for funds from the Home Builders' Account arrangements with building societies? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standardsof service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as anormal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Education and Science a question. Did the Opposition in this House vote against the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill last week? Did it do the same in the other place? 
-I present the sixteenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Motion - by leave - proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether he has seen a recent statement by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that the number of man-days lost as a result of industrial disputes did not bear getting too excited about. What is the present position in relation to industrial disputes? Have they not been the subject of major increases in recent years, and is this not a question of very great national significance? 
I have the honour to bring up the seventeenth report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to the honourable members in the chamber. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I am aware that the Postmaster-General some time ago appointed an inter-departmental committee to inquire into telephone charges. Will the PostmasterGeneral give earnest and serious thought to assisting industries in such places as Ballarat and Bendigo by placing these centres on a reduced charge telephone rate with the Melbourne telephone zone? 
I present the 18th report of the Publications Committee, sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I present the nineteenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Supply a question. Now that the Government has agreed to produce 20 of the Project N aircraft manufactured by the Government Aircraft Factories, will the Minister inform the House of the action that is being taken to promote sales and whether the aircraft has yet been named? 
 I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is it a fact, as announced in all Australian newspapers; that the Riverstone Meatworks, situated some  30  miles from Sydney, has been closed down and that  690  employees have lost their jobs as a consequence of this closure? Is it also a fact that in the last  7  months  168  unauthorised stoppages have taken place at this meatworks? Did any member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or any member of the Labor Party move in any way to prevent this anarchic nonsense or were orders taken from the left wing unions that the members of the Australian Labor Party were not to intervene in any way to prevent this stupidity over the last  7  months? Is the Minister aware that I ask this question at the request of a great number of the men and their families? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. During the recent oil strike what action was taken by the Government and what influence was brought to bear by other parties to bring the ridiculous oil strike to an end? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. There has been much discussion since the presentation of the 1972-73 Budget concerning the variation of expenditure between several departments. Will the Minister inform the House the variation of expenditure between education in Australia and defence? 
In speaking on this Budget of 1972-73, I wish first of all to refer to the Australian Labor Party, the official Opposition, and use an old American Indian phrase: 'They speak with forked tongues'. 'They' are the members of the Australian Labor Party. It might be asked: 'Who are the members of the Australian Labor Party?' They make up the political wing of the greater trade union movement in Australia and are part and parcel of the greater trade union movement in Australia. The political wing of the trade union movement in Australia - the Australian Labor Party - speaks with a forked tongue because the trade union movement itself is greatly divided and the political party is greatly divided. The division which exists in all the States of the Commonwealth is much easier to define and explain in Victoria. 
In 1954 the number of people who were on the official list of members of the 
Communist Party of Australia was greater than it is today. In 1955 there came the great split which divided the industrial trade union movement and the political wing alike. Out of this division came the right wing unions with a bias toward the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the militant wing unions, the left wing, with a bias toward the Australian Labor Party. From that time onward, the Communist Party commenced to dwindle in numbers and a remarkable development started to take place. The communists, knowing that the mass of Australian people were not readily accepting them and that they were becoming more clearly identified as Communists, started to pass in their official cards and join the Australian Labor Party. Over a number of years during this time there had been a small and growing group within the trade union movement and the ALP known as 'Communist sympathisers'. These same people later became known as 'socialists lefts'. It then became clear that the ex-members of the Communist Party had found a ready-made home for themselves with the socialist lefts in the ALP. 
So whilst the numbers in the Communist Party were dwindling, the numbers of socialist lefts in the ALP were increasing rapidly and even continued to increase to the extent that the whole of the Victorian branch of the ALP is today under socialist left control. The  president  of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr George  Crawford, is presently in Hanoi and the secretary of the Victorian branch,  Mr Hardy,  I hear on good authority will be receiving a nomination for the Senate next year. I have been searching for some time to discover the political and philosophical difference between the socialist lefts and the communists only to find that there is little difference. At this point of time we should cast back our minds to the early war years. We know only too well the difficulties that we had in Australia, particularly on the waterfront. It was not until Russia came into the war on the side of the Allies that the communists on the waterfront decided to load our ships with war materials. I did not realise that, during the years I have been a member of the Parliament, I would ever see a member of the ALP proudly wearing a Lenin badge on his lapel. This same man was banned from attending the rocket range by the then Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  because he was regarded as a security risk. 
The question we must ask ourselves today is: Would a future Labor Prime Minister be in a position to bring out the troops if our nation were being brought to its knees through lack of power? Previously, the issue was coal. Today, it is oil and electricity. Communist union leaders made the following public statement several years ago in reference to Yallourn power: 
When we get control of these unions we will have real power in our hands. 
Have not they gained control of these unions? We remember clearly what happened at the beginning of this year in Victoria. A few weeks ago we experienced the oil strike because the unions refused to remove the 35-hour week from the log of claims. Every endeavour was made by the unions to by-pass the correct procedure of arbitration concerning the 35-hour week. The forked-tongue principle once again applies to this case, with many Labor men telling the people of Australia not to be too concerned about the 35-hour week, that they will be supporting it and it will come only through the means of arbitration, and only those industries which can afford the 35-hour week will get it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I now ask members of the Labor Party to name those industries. If they are fair dinkum, I invite them to come to Ballarat and to name those industries in Ballarat which they consider can afford the 35-hour week. 
The oil strike occurred because the unions made every endeavour to bypass arbitration with the decision on the 35-hour week. Now let us examine the internal union control during the oil strike. We all know that  Mr Hawke  is  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He gained his position through the votes and assistance of the communists and the socialist left.  His  influence and control of the trade union movement in Australia is of a vertical nature from the top down. On the other hand,  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, another very influential man and a self-confessed communist, has a very efficient and disciplined organisation of his own which operates through the shop stewards.  Mr Carmichael  at any time he so desires can cut right across  Mr Hawke's  authority. We can appropriately refer to 

 Mr Carmichael's influence and control as being of a horizontal nature. Two strikes this year clearly identify  Mr Carmichael's  strength. I refer to the Victorian State Electricity Commission strike and the more recent oil strike. 
I would now like to quote from a paper printed and presented by the socialist left of the Australian Labor Party. Once again I remind honourable members that the paper is supported by  Mr Crawford  and  Mr Hartley.  It stated: 
During the oil dispute the Victorian workers were advised of the similarities of their struggle and those of the SEC workers earlier this year. They were aware that like the SEC workers they would end back in the arms of arbitration, despite their own attempts to prevent it, and so most forces, including the ACTU were forcing them back. 
The paper seems to indicate disrespect for the ACTU and criticism of a return to the authority of the Arbitration Commission. The report went on: 
The strength of their position was not helped by the obvious break in solidarity wilh the ironworkers and Australian Society of Engineers advocating a return over their heads at a critical point in this dispute. At this time over two-thirds were already back manning the refineries, accepted by the ACTU, and by the time Moore made his further offer it was foregone that all workers would return. Though the issue of how to escape the established forces containing the workers had not been resolved, many positive gains were made in this strike. 
I repeat that that quotation is from a paper printed by the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. In reflection on the happenings during the strike, was it any wonder that  Mr Hawke  had a fainting turn at a time when he realised that he had lost control to  Mr Carmichael?  It can now be clearly seen that the aim of the socialist left is to destroy arbitration, to work hard for collective bargaining, to produce chaos and anarchy and then revolution. Once again there is an indication of a clear division in the political party opposite, with some members endeavouring to retain arbitration and others working for the destruction of arbitration. Everybody knows that the Government believes in the arbitration system and that we have recently passed legislation to strengthen it, to make proceedings simpler and quicker and to emphasise the conciliation role of the Arbitration Commission. 
The Government believes that the fairest way to distribute wage increases is through the arbitration system. It does not see that the possession and use of industrial power by waterside workers, seamen or power workers is the way to improve their position at the expense of increased prices for the rest of the community. I will now endeavour to interpret Labor's platform on social and cultural planning. Section 1 1 1 (b) of the Federal platform of the Labor Party commits a Federal Labor Government to the national planning of the economic, social and cultural development of the Commonwealth. This is given as one of the principles of action by which a Labor Government would achieve its socialist objective. The relevance of national economic planning to traditional socialist ideology is apparent enough, and economic targets are spelled out in some detail, but the platform does not explain what the Labor Party means by social and cultural planning'. Some recent clues, however, suggest that the Labor Party now sees socialism not simply as economic reform but as a revolution in our social and cultural values. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  recently wrote: 
The basic struggles of class in society will not disappear, but in our increasingly pluralist society we have to adopt a radicalism that is no longer decided solely on the material interests of the lower income groups. It may well be that a socialist today should be more concerned with removing the legal barriers against homosexuality than he would be in taking over the banks. * See Personal Explanation at page 879. 
Let me repeat that for the edification of workers who are being led by people such as this. 
 The honourable member for Sydney is a friend of mine and I exclude him from this particular attack. Let me repeat this for the edification of workers such as my friends in Ballarat who work in factories and workshops, good solid Australians and who are being led by people who are not working in the national interest but are acting as crusaders for the liberation of homosexuals. These are the member for Prospect's own words, not mine, and I repeat them: 
It may well be that a socialist today should be more concerned with removing the legal barriers against homosexuality than he would be in taking over the banks. ls the ALP seeking to represent the workers in this community, or the homosexuals? What a decline in the philosophy of a once proud Party that its members are more concerned with enabling 2 men to get into bed together than with the profound issues which affect the welfare of the workers. Now they place the welfare of deviants above the welfare of the workers. Prominent and perspective Labor men have informed me that the new look as far as the nomination of candidates from several Labor branches is concerned, particularly in Victoria and in New South Wales, is one either of infantile Leftists or pseudoprogressives. This is given as one of the principles of action by which a Labor Government would achieve its socialist objective. 
The recent decision by the Victorian State Council of the Labor Party calling for abortion on demand as Party policy as published in the 'Australian' on 7th August 1872, also offers clues to Labor's social policy. An interview with the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  following the decision gives an indication of Labor Party thinking. I quote what the honourable member for Maribyrnong was reported as having said: it's abortion on request, there is no demand about it at all. No doctor is forced to do it and no patient is forced to have one. It's abortion on request. And I certainly hope that every branch of the Labor Party will accept this policy because as pointed out in the debate today, to do anything short of this is just to indulge in cynicism and intellectual dishonesty. 
The Labor member for Maribyrnong,  Dr Cass.  The report goes on to quote the honourable member for Maribyrnong: 
I firmly believe that the majority of Catholic women certainly are in favour of abortion. They may not be able to say so publicly, but I am convinced that women as a whole are more aware of the need for abortion law reform, and that includes Catholic women. 

 Dr Cass does not believe that the Labor Party will lose votes on abortion reform. He said: 
I am prepared to take the risk- 
With abortion on request Or demand. Honourable members opposite are now arguing whether it should be on request' or 'demand'. I do not know the difference.  Dr Cass  continued: because I think it is a necessary job to air these sorts of controversial issues. Too long society has been sort of kept under if you like and we have been forced to shut up and not discuss things because of the very, very conservative sections of the community who have held sway over the vast majority. 
Under the heading of cultural affairs, the Labor platform states that the Party would create a Minister for cultural affairs with responsibility for the general cultural development of Australia. One of the major responsibilities of this Minister, according to the platform, would be censorship. Labor's spokesman on arts and media and, presumably, shadow minister for cultural affairs,  Senator James  McClelland of New South Wales, announced that a 'Federal Labor government would abolish all censorship except for cinema advertising'. This is the direction of Labor's notion of 'cultural planning'. 
On censorship, the path which the Labor Party is travelling is clear for everyone to see.  Senator James  McClelland had this to say when interviewed on ABC television on 7th August 1972: 
Why should we censor anything? What are we afraid of? 
And when asked by the interviewer would he accept that the end of censorship would result in a flood of pornographic material,  Senator James  McClelland replied: 
I would think that there would probably be an increase in pornographic material in the short run, and seeing that I don't think that will be the end of the world, that doesn't disturb me all that much. 
I would like to say to  Senator James  McClelland that while he says it is not the end of the world, I believe it to be the beginning of the destruction of our western society. 
Schools are being used today to bring about social and political change and are giving there own interpetation of history and other subjects. We see here once again, the socialist left influence of the Australian Labor Party. How could the independent schools possibly live within the influence of the socialist lefts? The socilist lefts know this only too well. They are conniving and using every endeavour to build up hates within the Christian religion and dividing people in the Christian religion and will go all out to prevent aid to all denominational schools. The Government's initiatives in education repesent a balanced programme of assistance to both government and independent schools, tackling special programmes and problems, such as state government school building requirements and providing independent schools with equivalent capital aid and a solid basis of support for running costs which will allow them to plan ahead with a large degree of certainty. 
On immigration, the Labor Party believes that Australia should be a patchwork quilt with all the various colours opposing each other, building up hatreds and bringing about a condition within this nation which would not be conducive to a free peace loving people. We in the Government believe our quilt should be made with coloured threads through it, but the quilt should be one quilt and the nation, irrespective of colour, should be one nation and one people. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. There has been some confusion in the minds of the public on where the Government stands on the question of abortion on demand. Can the Prime Minister tell the House where the Government does stand in regard to this very important social question? 
I have the honour to bring up the twentieth report of the Publications Committee sitting  in  conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members  in  the chamber. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Interior been drawn to the despicable action of members of the socalled Abortion Reform Society who paraded with banners outside St Christopher's Roman Catholic Cathedral at all services on Sunday last, annoying worshippers who are opposed to abortion on demand or request? As the great majority of Australians believe in freedom of worship, will the Minister take action against these arrogant people who are prepared to parade and annoy people outside any place of worship? 
In this debate on the estimates of the Department of Customs and Excise I take this opportunity to say a few words concerning the ever-growing and shocking problem of the use of drugs of dependence. Why should we legalise drug taking or remove penalties for drug taking? Why should we make any move that would encourage another medical or social problem, especially in view of the fact that the World Health Organisation has not cleared the use of drugs of dependence such as pot and many other more harmful drugs? People smoked cigarettes for many years before it was proved beyond doubt that the use of cigarettes was conducive to lung cancer. The advisers and officials in the field of drug detection and usage inform us that only about 10 per cent to IS per cent of the total amount of available drugs will be detected before reaching the human market. This is an alarmingly low figure. In view of this low figure, and following much discussion both nationally and internationally by those people responsible for detection, these people say that they must encourage much more education amongst the young people in the schools and colleges in an all-out endeavour to cut down on the demand. 
This problem becomes much more difficult for a government to control when men like the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is Labor's shadow Minister for Health, state that they would recommend to a Labor government the abolition of penalties for drug taking. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  says that if Labor is elected to office he will try to have penalties for drug takers scrapped. In 1969 a National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence was set up with the ComptrollerGeneral of Customs as  chairman.  This Committee, consisting of senior Department of Health and law enforcement officials from the Commonwealth and all States, was set up to co-ordinate activities in drug education and law enforcement. Since the Committee's inception the Commonwealth has made grants of $l.5m for drug education purposes. In common with a number of other countries, Australia has greatly increased its activity in the international narcotics field. For example, the United States of America, in response to a call by  President  Nixon, has greatly increased its efforts to suppress drug trafficking and to treat addicts. Australia has hosted a regional conference of 14 countries of South East Asia to discuss the combating of illicit drug trafficking and it has developed close liaison with countries in South East Asia on an operational level. 
Australia is active also in the United Nations sphere of drug control and recently was elected as a member of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Australian delegates have attended these plenipotentiary conferences: Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and Protocol amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. With all the information that is currently available concerning the drug problem, our main task seems to be to make every endeavour to cut down on the demand. I would like to see the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence, which was set up in 1969, give a lead in conducting a drug alert programme. This would involve the coordination of the activities of every community service club that can be of help in publicising, defining and combating local drug abuse. The help of medical, social and law enforcement bodies, the news media, churches, schools and all other related community groups could be enlisted in the effort. The National Standing Committee could be the co-ordinating body when this action is initiated and it could seek to broaden its scope by volunteering manpower and funds for the effort as well as contacting and organising community leaders in law, medicine, religion, education and social work to form a community drug education committee. Operation 'drug alert' could be a programme of involvement by Federal, State and local governments. It could seek out and employ the best in local manpower and resources to mount the most effective possible campaign on drug abuse education and prevention. 
Developing an effective community programme to combat drug abuse is not easy, but the consequences of doing nothing ultimately may be much more severe. This would be a programme which would require the full support of all our local communities. It makes it ever so much harder to fulfil such a programme when people like the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  say, when writing about Labor in the 1970s: 
As I see it then, Labor's aim in the 1970s must be to persuade the lower income groups that we would increase their share of the cake, the whole community that we would increase Australia's share of the Australian cake and that we would move towards establishing a civilised ('permissive') society. 
Perhaps we should look also to the area of education and ask: Are some of our children cramming too much? If this is found to be so, how will we combat it? The preexamination cramming complex could be pushing some of our young people towards the early taking of drugs. The relationship between drug-taking and the growth in crime has been clearly established in the United States. Any person hooked on drugs has to hook 4 others to ensure his supplies, unless he has an independent income. If we treat drug taking sympathetically, as the Australian Labor Party proposes, we will turn our cities into the dangerous jungles that so many of the great American cities have become. God knows that the growth in violence is disturbing enough. Do honourable members opposite wish to buttress the growing crime rate with a drug problem in which the drug addicts are treated tenderly but in which complete indifference is shown for the well-being of the drug addict's victim? Have we not reached the stage where, in effect, we are finding excuses for the rapist and forgetting the rights of the raped? Let us push forward now for operation 'drug alert'. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware of statements and proposals made during the last parliamentary recess by the Labor Party that the cost of Australian homes would be reduced by up to $6,000? Is there any substance to the proposals? 
I have the honour to bring up the twenty-first report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Publications I present the Committee's report relating to the pink pages advertising contract for the Victorian telephone directories together with extracts of minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he has had a request from the New South Wales Teachers Federation for permission to make a political film in one or more Canberra schools. If so, what is involved? 
The honourable member would not know whether it was regional, country or rural. He is speaking to an expert in regard to this matter because I have devoted my whole life to the rehabilitation of the young people of Australia. I have done more for them than ever he could think of. The honourable member should go to Blacktown and ask what I have done for the young people and for the populace of Blacktown, and then he will understand the respect that the people in that area have for me. I tried to make the conditions in which they live much better - far better than would honourable members opposite who harangue so much but who never touch their pockets to help them. I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on his forthright statement. It will lead to better things and it will be a good thing for Australia - for your kin and mine. There will be better houses, the people will be better looked after and they will have a better way of life than has been decreed to them in the past. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. The recently published quarterly consumer price index showed an increase of 1.4 per cent. Why were potatoes listed in this increase when in fact for the last quarter potatoes were at the lowest price for many years - lc and below per lb? Can the Treasurer inform the House as to who is getting the rake-off between the grower and the consumer? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Publications I bring up the Committee's report relating to departmental publishing activities together with extracts from the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
 Following the completion of its inquiry into the distribution and pricing of Parliamentary publications late last year, the Joint Committee on Publications, having power to initiate its own inquiries within its general terms of reference, decided to investigate the publishing operations of government departments. In undertaking this task the Joint Committee has been carrying out its important responsibility of conducting a continuing Parliamentary review of the Commonwealth's printing and publishing arrangements. 
Initially, the Committee requested written submissions from seven departments which were selected as being representative of a wide range of Commonwealth publishing operations. These departments were External Territories, Immigration, Interior, Labour and National Service, National Development, Trade and Industry and the Treasury. The departments were requested to supply information about their printing and publishing arrangements and to explain such matters as distribution and pricing. Later, the Committee requested and obtained similar information from certain statutory authorities responsible to the Ministers of several of these departments. Witnesses representing the seven departments, several statutory authorities and the Australian Government Publishing Service were called and examined. 
From the written submissions and the evidence heard the Committee built up a comprehensive knowledge and appreciation of departmental printing and publishing. A number of problems and issues emerged which were common to the departments investigated. The Committee found that most departments experienced production problems, mainly delays, early in the establishment of the Australian Government Publishing Service in 1970. But the Committee is satisfied that these early problems, which were mainly due to initial inadequate staffing and other developmental difficulties, now have largely been resolved. 
The Committee found a wide variation of distribution policies between the departments examined resulting from differing objectives of their publishing policies: Some departments issue purely promotional material which must be distributed free, whilst other departments produce publications for more specialised or restricted audiences. The Committee noted that these latter publications whilst placed on sale also have free distribution lists, in some cases quite substantial ones. It appeared to the Committee that a uniform or rigid distribution policy applying to all departments would be impracticable. But the Committee has recommended that all departments conduct continuous research into their free distribution programmes with a view to ensuring that wastage is minimised. The Committee found that the AGPS pricing formula for publications did not appear to be applied in all cases. The Committee has recommended that the AGPS pricing formula of 3 times run-on cost be applied uniformly to all departmental publications, except in special cases, such as maps. 
The Committee found widely differing arrangements for the printing of material for overseas distribution. The Department of Immigration has centralised its overseas printing in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; the Department of Trade and Industry arranges its overseas printing in all continents; while the Australian News and Information Bureau has its printing for overseas distribution done mainly in Australia. Whilst each department gave apparent good reasons for the particular publishing arrangements adopted, nonetheless, the Committee noted differences of opinion about the advantages and disadvantages of printing in Australia those publications intended for overseas distribution. The Committee has recommended that AGPS undertake an in-depth investigation of the overall question of overseas printing with a view to reaching a consistent Government policy on favouring printing in Australia except where special circumstances make it advantageous to Australia's interest to do otherwise. 
The Committee heard evidence from some departments that the Treasury prescribed rules for the letting of contracts to printers other than the Commonwealth and State Government Printers, were unduly restrictive and a hindrance. The Committee has recommended that the Treasury contractual regulations be revised with a view to raising the cost barriers governing quotations and calling tenders. 
On behalf of the Committee, I thank those departments and statutory authorities who supplied submissions and information to the Committee, some of whom went to considerable effort to present very detailed and well-documented submissions. I also thank the witnesses who appeared before the Committee for their co-operation and assistance. The Committee is indebted par.tieularly to  Mr P.  A. Nott, Controller, AGPS, and  Mr B.  P. Shurman, Director of Publishing, AGPS, whose evidence was especially important and whose knowledge and assistance were invaluable to the Committee. As  Chairman,  I desire to thank the other members of the Committee for the work they have put into this inquiry, which has fulfilled the need for Parliamentary scrutiny and oversight of the Commonwealth's printing and publishing arrangements. 
I present the  twenty-second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Can the Minister for Defence tell the House how many troops will be withdrawn from Singapore this year? What is his time scale for the withdrawal of the remainder of the Australian troops? 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  made quite a to-do about the previous Government putting 17  Bills through this chamber in the one night by the use of the gag and the guillotine. I want to tell him the truth. Nineteen Bills went through in the one night. 
Just hold on;  19  Bills went through in the one night and the gag or the guillotine was not used at any time. The reason for the  19  Bills going through was that the members of the Opposition went to sleep. After 8 o'clock they dozed off and they did not know what was going on. They became completely lost. The Opposition members who were in charge of the Bills were not in the chamber. We had complete co-operation between the Government parties and we got  19  Bills through in the one night, only because the Opposition was sound asleep. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Mackellar has already spoken in the debate and cannot take any further part in it. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler - Leader of the House (3.51)  -  in reply - Anybody listening to the debate this afternoon, particularly the speeches from the Opposition side, would have no doubts as to why honourable members opposite were rejected at the last Federal election. They are the people who were trying to run this country for the last 20 years. For one hour and 10 minutes they have argued about whether or not there will be an extension of one minute to the time allowed for honourable members to enter this chamber for a division. Have honourable members ever in their lives heard such rot as when the honourable member for Toorak thundered into the attack, in his new position as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, to fight for a minute for the Opposition? 
Order! I suggest that the Minister refer to the honourable member by his correct electorate name. 
The first thing J should like to say is that this is not a permanent measure. The Liberal Party in its wisdom decided to demolish half of Parliament House and that has caused inconvenience to not only the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but also other members of the Ministry and various other people as well as private members. Private members received  j  no consideration at all from the previous Government and today they are as inconvenienced as Ministers are. Therefore, all we are seeking to do, pending the completion of the renovations which are being carried out, is to provide extra time for honourable members to enter the chamber for a division. I mentioned today that we have heard a lot about the justice associated with the previous Government. The fact of the matter is that no other government ever took away from private members more of their rights in this Parliament than did those who sit opposite. No other government ever gave less to private members than did those who sit opposite, whether it be speaking time, facilities or anything at all. The humbug and the hypocrisy coming from honourable members opposite nearly make me sick after sitting here for 30 years and listening to the drivel that they put forward. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that I spent a bit of time overseas. Anybody who was given the Overseas Property Bureau to administer after the previous Government had been handling it would know that I should spend all my time abroad to take up the slack or the leeway that the previous Government left as a legacy for us to remedy. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said that I was somewhat decrepit and that I had to have an office n.-ar the chamber, ft is funny that when I was looking for an office I was told by certain people that the office closest to the chamber was occupied by him. They said that he had to have an office close to the chamber in order to get into the chamber quickly because he was known as the tortoise of the Country Party. They said to me:  'Mr Daly,  it is not because you are slow but because you must be in the chamber so often that we are putting you in the closest room'. So, 1 have a reasonably good office that was given over by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. 
Honourable members opposite refer to the whittling down of members' rights in respect of the one minute that will be used up in the ringing of the bells and say that Cabinet Ministers and others could easily reach the chamber in 2 minutes. They talk about the great amount of time that will be loy' by extending the time for the ringing or the division bells by one minute. There will not be such a great loss of time because this is a democratic government. The restriction of free speech is opposed to the principles on which we were elected. We have no intention of following the infamous example of honourable members opposite in the ruthless use of the gag and the restriction of debate in this Parliament. There is no need to worry about these matters. However, let us look at the facts of the case. The old Cabinet room is 80 paces from the Senate and it takes 40 seconds walking quickly to cover that distance. The new Cabinet room is 180 paces from this chamber and walking flat out it takes one minute 45 seconds to cover the distance, provided one is prepared to knock a few people out of the way, hurry down stairs and pass through a few doors. Is it not logical to expect that something should be done about the situation? lt was interesting to listen to members opposite speak about why this proposal to extend the time for the ringing of the bells is not wanted. It is interesting to note that the Opposition parties when in government had their own committee on the Standing Orders recommend that the time should be extended to 3 minutes. Today the great defenders of democracy, who did not care when it was suggested that 1 minute should be taken away from the Australian Labor Party, find the situation somewhat different. As one honourable member said, this is an amazing reversal of attitude. Today, for a time, I thought members opposite were fair dinkum. They spoke with conviction. One former Minister said that the Government sought to restrict debate and that he was not able to reply to charges made against him this morning. The shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  would have plenty of time to speak during the Address-in-Reply debate. At present there are about 50 members listed  to speak during  that debate, but he is not game enough to put his name on the list to enable him to reply to the charges he so much resents. Members opposite claim that we are restricting their rights. Earlier they said we were trying to push measures through. I was here when the previous government arranged for 17 or 18 Bills to be passed in about 4 hours. Those Bills went through like sausages, and they were not much better. 
Sufficient time has been wasted debating this motion. The Liberal Party and the Country Party have given us a vision of their great strength in being united on this great issue. They were fighting for one minute and they stuck together like glue. It was lovely to see them standing as one in this place, fighting for democracy and justice and to save one minute. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  is smiling now that the parties have come together again. Hie parties to the old shotgun wedding have had a reunion. They are in harness again and are enjoying a second honeymoon - all over one minute. The attitude of members opposite is simply humbug. Their remarks should be treated as a joke. They have put up an argument that cannot be substantiated. The real reason that they oppose the motion is to try to persuade people outside that they are the defenders of democracy, free speech and expression in this Parliament. If anyone listening is silly enough to believe that, their minds will soon be disabused when I relate the record of the Opposition parties when I move the next motion standing in my name. 
I opened this debate in a kindly and friendly spirit. I tried to do my best for the Parliament. I thought I would be helping some of those aging members of the Country Party as well as some very active, virile and busy Ministers. At the same time I thought I would enable every honourable member from the Prime Minister down to have the right to be in the chamber and vote when necessary. I moved the motion in a non-partisan spirit. Little did 1 dream that I would arouse a united attack from members opposite over one dear little minute of debating time. I appeal to honourable members not to divide the House on this motion because if they do they will waste a minute or two and, after all, they want all the time they can get to discuss matters. They want plenty of time at their disposal, so they should not waste a second. I hope to see the time when no time will be wasted in divisions and numbers will be recorded electronically as in some other Parliaments. 
Let us be practical. The Opposition, when in government, half demolished Parliament House. It pretty well demolished itself into the bargain. Members opposite have taken 1 hour 10 minutes to discuss this motion. I have some sad news for them. They will not be allowed 1 hour 10 minutes to debate the next motion. If they can waste 1 hour 10 minutes debating one minute, they might take 3 days debating something that really matters. Little did I dream that in their first attack in this Parliament members opposite would look so silly in the eyes of the Australian public. I urge the House to support the motion and give away one minute in the interests of restoring democracy to the Parliament and  maintaining the rights of members to vote here. Members opposite should not forget the recommendation of their own committee on the Standing Orders. 
Question put - 
That the motion  (Mr  Daly's) be agreed to. 
We in the Opposition are feeling very benevolent this afternoon, because we support this Bill. I am pleased to see that the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Barnard)  is present in the chamber, as I know something of his background and the long hours of work he has put in to help repatriation pensioners. The Bill currently before the House is designed to give legislative effect to proposals relating to improvements in pension rates and conditions of eligibility. I support the view that the special or TPI rate payable to a man or woman who has been classified as totally and permanently incapacitated because of war related incapacity should not be less than the adult Commonwealth minimum wage. The Bill provides for an increase of S3. 10 a week in the special or TPI rate, taking it from $48 a week to $51.10 a week. The special rate is also payable to certain tuberculosis sufferers, to the blind, to those suffering from the more serious double amputations and to those who are classified as being temporarily totally incapacitated. In this category there are 21,104 pensioners. Quite recently, because of the means test, TPI wives who were previously on age pensions had their medical entitlement cards taken away from them. I suggest that the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation have a look at this situation with a view to restoring those medical entitlement cards. 
The intermediate rate is one of the different rates of war pension designed to cater for the various degrees of war related incapacity. It is payable to those whose incapacity permits them to work only part time or intermittently and will be increased by $2.25 a week, taking it from $34 a week to $36.55 a week. In this category there are 1,900 pensioners. I support the view that the general rate of war pension should be progressively increased until it has reached the equivalent of 50 per cent nf the adult Commonwealth minimum wage and that it should be maintained at that level. Over 190,000 ex-servicemen receive a war pension within the general rate scale, from 100 per cent down to 10 per cent. This Bill provides an increase of $2 a week to the 100 per cent rate, taking the maximum of this pension from $14 to $16 a week. The general rate presently scales down, as I have said, from 100 per cent to 10 per cent according to the assessed degree of incapacity. All general rate war pensioners will benefit from this increase. There are 190,880 general rate war pensioners. The Opposition as well as the Government is acutely aware of the loss endured by the nation's war widows and the difficulties they have faced and are still facing in their daily lives without the assistance, comfort and sup port of the breadwinner. The Bill increases the basic war widow's pension by $1.50 a week, taking it from $20 to $21.50 a week, affecting some 50,500 widows. Additionally, most war widows are eligible for a domestic allowance of $8.50 a week and many may also qualify for a means test pension. 
The Opposition supports the policy of war pensions for student children as provided in the Bill and agrees that they should be continued until completion of the full time education of dependent children who are not receiving a maintenance, living allowance or salary from Commonwealth sources that equals or exceeds the allowance payable under the Repatriation Soldiers' Children Education Scheme. The Bill also provides that a child of a service pensioner be recognised for service pension purposes, irrespective of age, for as long as the child continues to undertake full time education. 
Those who suffer from pulmonary tuberculosis, or who have served in a theatre of war and are over 60 years of age in the case of men or 55 years of age in the case of women, or permanently unemployable, qualify for a service pension if they satisfy the existing means test. The proposed increases in age and invalid pensions will, under the provisions of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, apply automatically to service pensions, and there is no necessity to amend the Act to increase immediately means test pensions by $1.50 a week. The increase will take the maximum service pension to $21.50 a week for a single ex-serviceman and up to $18.75 for a married ex-serviceman or an eligible wife. 
Several points have been raised by the Minister, and I think some of them are worthy of repeating. In the repatriation legislation as it stands there are certain dependants of ex-servicemen who suffer disadvantages, and the opportunity has now been taken to remove these disadvantages. First, where a claimant for a pension dies after decision on his application has been given by the Repatriation Commission, his legal representative has not been permitted to lodge and prosecute an appeal with an entitlement appeal tribunal or an assessment appeal tribunal. A legal personal representative should be allowed this right, and this is the purpose of clause 5 of the Bill, as the Minister stated. Like the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  I support that wholeheartedly. It should be borne in mind however that action taken under this new provision will be subject to other provisions of the Act that govern and place tune limits on claims and appeals procedures generally. For example, a decision on an appeals tribunal cannot be expressed to operate from a date earlier than 3 months before the date on which the claim for pension was lodged. In certain other limited cases the decision can have effect from a date not earlier than 4 years before the date of decision or determination. There is also a time limit for the lodgment of appeals with an assessment appeal tribunal. 
Secondly, where an ex-serviceman lodges an application for service pension but dies before a decision is given, the claim lapses and no pension is payable to his estate in respect of the period up to death, in spite of the fact that, had he lived, the pension would have been paid as from the date of application. Under the Social Services Act payment of arrears of pension can be made in the circumstances described. The Bill currently before the House inserts in the principal Act a provision similar to that which is in the Social Services Act. 
Thirdly, at present some de facto wives and some ex-nuptial children are recognised under repatriation legislation. Other Commonwealth Acts, such as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employment) Act, the Social Services Act and the National Health Act recognise additional categories of these dependants. The Bill, therefore, embodies proposals to recognise for war pensions and associated benefits a de facto wife or widow who has lived with an ex-serviceman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status, or the member's death, as the case may be, if she is or was wholly or partly dependent on him, and any ex-nuptial child of an ex-serviceman. The Bill also recognises for service pension purposes a de facto wife who has lived with an exserviceman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status and any ex-nuptial child, foster child or  ward  in the custody, care and control of an ex-serviceman. 
I congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  for seeing that this area of anomaly between the Department of Social Security and the Repatriation Department has been straightened out. Where dual means test pensions are already being paid no pension will be reduced but only one department will give effect to the proposals and the other will continue its pension at the current rate. I should like the Minister to explain further the situation. I am not quite sure what is involved. The dual means test pension which may presently be received under the Repatriation Act and Social Services Act are those payable to the widow or deserted wife of a service pensioner - such a widow or wife can continue to receive her repatriation service pension at the same time as she is receiving a civilian widow's pension under the Social Services Act - and a service pensioner suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. Such a pensioner can also receive, at the same time, an age or invalid pension under the Social Services Act. 
The Bill provides that a service pension now payable to a widow or deserted wife of a service pensioner will not be increased on this or any future occasion. I should like the Minister to explain this provision further. Service pensions payable to persons suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis will be increased under the general provisions relating to service pensions. In future any person who has an eligibility for means test pension under both the Repatriation Act and the Social Services Act will have to elect to receive a pension under one or the other. I support this provision. 
Another anomaly which existed in the Repatriation Act prevented a person, otherwise eligible for service pension as an exservicewoman, receiving it if she received a war widow's pension. Such an ex-servicewoman will now become eligible for a service pension even though receiving a war widow's pension. A war widow currently in receipt of an age or invalid pension in addition to her war pension may, if she is eligible for a service pension and so wishes, transfer to the Repatriation Department and receive her full entitlement under the Repatriation Act. I congratulate the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation on introducing this legislation. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Since there were only a small group present on 2nd March at the departmental and agencies meeting which was allegedly plotting against the Government, why has it taken more than 2 weeks to ascertain whether or not a one-sentence report of a single decision recorded by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation representative was accurate? If, as the Attorney-General told the Senate, there were conflicting versions of what occurred, will the Prime Minister outline to the House the other versions? What individual has the responsibility for this investigation? If reports that a senior member of the Prime Minister's own staff is conducting the investigation are accurate, and given the slowness of the activity, is the House to assume that the supergirl contest has been given a higher priority? 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
As we consider this measure an essential one  in  our program to improve Service conditions we feel as a matter of equity that  it  should also be extended  to  those national servicemen serving at 6 December 1972 who voluntarily chose  to  complete the period  of  service for which they were originally enlisted. 
That was for 18 months. The Minister went on: 
The retention of those young men who chose  to  remain is seen as valuable in the transition from  a  partly conscripted Army to an all-volunteer force. 
I would like the Minister to qualify, if he can, this portion of his statement and tell the House how this improves Service conditions - that is, how does the granting of eligibility for service homes to young national service trainees, who are signed up to serve 18 months, improve Service conditions. I also wish to ask the Minister how many of these young men who were serving at 6th December have chosen to remain in the Regular Army. 
I should like to move an extension of time for the Minister to enable him to answer my 2 questions. 1. move: 
That an extension of time be granted to the Minister for Housing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)The question is that an extension of time be granted to the Minister for Housing. Those of that opinion say aye, and to the contrary no. I think the noes have it. The question is resolved in the negative. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 7 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 7a. 
As a member of the Committee of which the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  is  Chairman,  I should like to congratulate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  for accepting the Committee's amendment, lt is certainly appreciated. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
Will the Prime Minister give consideration to the financing of a country university which is to be divided between Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong? 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. The average wholesale price of bulk beer is approximately 50c a gallon. The excise rate is$1. 1375 a gallon- 
These Bills are being brought into the House at a time when the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States is still in draft form and has not yet been agreed to by the States. Is this not another example of an attempt by the present Government to ride roughshod over the States through the power of the purse? The new agreement would allow the Commonwealth Government to stipulate that a much greater proportion of housing finance should go towards the building of Government homes for rental. The agreement would replace the present system of virtually unconditional grants with a scheme whereby Commonwealth financial aid would be given subject to a number of clearly defined conditions.  Mr Dickie,  the Minister for Housing in Victoria, has asked what power the Commonwealth has to direct Victoria how to spend money raised from Victorian taxpayers for the betterment of Victoria. The Melbourne 'Herald' in its editorial of 22 February reaffirmed this point of view when it stated: 
Canberra has not 'created' housing funds. Through its taxing power, it has raised this money from Victoria and other States, and is merely returning capital to be applied through the elected State Government apparatus. Why the money should have to suffer  a  distant policy change in the process in  a  mystery. 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has also proposed that the sale of new homes built by the State Housing Authority after 30 June next should be severely restricted, if not entirely prohibited, with sales to continue from its existing stock. He has also said that to relate assistance more closely to needs the annual determination of the amount to be allocated to the Housing Commission for welfare housing could no longer be left entirely to the individual States. The Minister for Housing in Victoria,  Mr Dickie,  has gone on record as saying: 
It has been quite obvious to me that from the outset  Mr Johnson  has been completely unaware of what the housing situation is in Victoria. I am certain that there are difficulties in New South Wales and most certainly in the electorate that he represents, and he has formulated  a  policy for the whole of Australia which could make some contribution to correcting the housing problems in his own electorate. 
The more that you look at these proposals the more you will realise that we can only be worse off. I believe that we can be justifiably proud of our housing operations here in Victoria. The Commonwealth has made great play in its Press releases and in its official documents that they intend to provide houses for needy people.  Mr Johnson  seemed to be unaware that under the charter given to us in the Housing Act the Housing Commission only has one responsibility, and that is to spend money to provide homes for people of limited means who are living in substandard housing. Now people of limited means are needy people and, of course, we have the added protection of the means test to ensure that we are building these houses for needy people only. The means test has always been applied whether  a  person is interested in only becoming a tenant or is interested in actually purchasing his home. 
Since coming into office in mid- 1955 the Liberal Government in Victoria has always sponsored home ownership. It is a basic plank in our Liberal Party platform, and one that we believe in intensely. Since 1955, 33,832 housing units have been sold to people who meet the requirements of the means test. None of them have been directed by the Victorian Housing Commission to buy their houses. They have bought them because they wanted to buy them; they have bought them because they have wanted to become home owners and, whether you rent a house or sell it, exactly the same person is going to occupy that house, possibly for the period of his lifetime. Sponsoring home ownership does many things that are good for Victorian Housing Commission applicants, and also for Victorian Housing Commission estates. Needy people are now able to buy a Housing Commission home by simply indicating to the Commission that they wish to purchase their home, and no deposit is required. They will simply be paying for their home; the home will be theirs by simply keeping up their rental payments. 
Buying a house is compulsory saving, and if there is one thing in this community that a family should have it is security in some form. Should the death of the breadwinner unfortunately happen, a death benefit insurance scheme provides security for the family of an eligible participant by providing payments for all outstanding loan money and this, of course, is a marvellous thing, because even a week after a tenant has decided to buy his home and the necessary documents have been finalised, should the breadwinner die then the wife and family become the owner of the home entirely unencumbered. What magnificant security this is for people of low income! And remember that none of these people can purchase these homes if they earn, exclusive of overtime, more than $80 a week on the day that they take the house over. 
Many people seek to buy their homes, but are advised against this policy by the Victorian Housing Commission because it believes that many of them, because of circumstances, would find difficulty in servicing a purchase contract and it lets them enter into a contract only after they have discussed the possibilities with the Commission thoroughly. It is interesting to know that of the 33,832 homes sold only a small percentage of the purchasers have found it necessary to revert to a tenancy basis.  Mr Dickie  has stated: 
Now we have been told by the Commonwealth Government that as from 1 July 1973 we must not sell any more houses excepting from old stock. What a fantastic direction to be received from a Government that has no constitutional powers to direct us to do a thing but only has the power of the purse strings by which to try and call our bluff. We will not accept this directive. We believe our home ownership policy is an excellent one and that people who have availed themselves of it are very happy people in our community. Why should we stop doing these things? 
Another advantage concerning home ownership is that in a State where we have a balance of roughly SO/SO as far as home ownership and tenancy are concerned it does lend to lift a housing estate. A person who owns his house usually keeps his house in good condition and this rubs off automatically to neighbours who are renting. Our Housing Commission estates both in the metropolitan area and in the country have benefited by this policy of 50/50 roughly of home ownership and tenancy because it has elevated the image of Housing Commission Estates right throughout the community. ' 
The Victorian Government will not take  a  directive that houses built after 1 July 1973 by the Housing Commission cannot be sold. It will not sign any agreement that signs away its right to do this type of thing simply because a socialist government does not believe in home ownership.  Mr John  Dedman, Minister for Post-war Reconstruction in the Chifley Government, spelt this socialist philosophy out loud and clear in 1947 when he was asked on the hustings whether his Government would make money available for people of low income to buy homes.  Mr Dedman  said that they would not, because home ownership only created a community of little capitalists. Why should the present Government push such a philosophy on a Liberal government which has seen a policy bloom into such remarkable success in Victoria where 33,832 home owners, all needy people, are at last assured of some security as far as their wives and family are concerned? 

 Mr Dickie has been criticised for making the statement that under the new Commonwealth/State Housing Agreement in Victoria rent will rise, and I want to explain to the House exactly why he knows that rentals will rise. The Minister was completely unaware of the fact that average rentals apply in Victoria. It is not done in any other State of Australia. Victoria is the only State that averages rentals, and the Minister and the Commonwealth Government were completely unaware of this. Other States charge what is called an 'economic rental', that is, a rental which should be imposed to service the cost of a house in the particular year that it was built. In Victoria houses built many years ago could have been rented at a figure as low as $5 a week, but houses which are built today would have an economic rent of approximately $18 to $20. Because of Victoria's averaging system, nobody pays more than $12.30 for a 3- bedroom unit, and with rebate rentals applicable rent can be as low as 80c a week. 
The Bolte Government decided years ago on the averaging system for rental and there was a great deal of discontent attached to it because those people who at the time were in houses for which they were paying low rentals had to be brought up to a higher rent which was the average rental, but that Government felt it was very unfair to tenants in later years who, because of rising costs, would have to pay higher economic rentals, that there should be varying rentals throughout the metropolitan and country areas depending on which year the house was built. The Victorian Government took, the bit in its teeth many years ago and decided on the average rental policy, and it has been instrumental in keeping rentals down to a very low figure - lower than any figure which is imposed anywhere in Australia, but unfortunately it would appear that the Minister was not aware of this fact. 
The Minister has said that economic rentals must be charged. An economic rental in Victoria is somewhere between $18 and $20, and with the 15,000 units that could be built over the next 5 years it would be higher still. There will be provisions even under the Commonwealth policy to give concessions on economic rentals, but in most cases it would not amount to any more than $3 at the most. Therefore, if an economic rental is charged in Victoria, less any concessions that are given by low interest rates or any other form of subsidy, the best rentals that a tenant could possibly hope for in Victoria would be around about the $15 to $16 mark, or at least $3.50 above the $12.30 which is at present the maximum which anyone would pay. 
Economic rent is charged in New South Wales and in the other States. It is interesting to read in a Press statement issued only about a month ago that  Mr Bourke, Chairman  of the New South Wales Housing Commission, said that under the economic rental formula the rentals on the houses that the Commission would build with the special $3im grant made available to it to house needy people would be $20 to $25 a week. These are the economic rents that the Minister talks about that will be imposed, or have to be imposed, under the Commonwealth/ State Housing Agreement. What a ridiculous situation it is when the Minister was unaware that the rentals in Victoria, having been averaged, are lower than any rentals that could ever be hoped to be achieved under any new Commonwealth policy. 
There is another very important aspect which will be instrumental in rentals rising in Victoria. Under the rental averaging policy it means that if we had 3 houses - one built in 1950 which had an economic rent of $5; one built in 1960 which had an economic rent of $10; and one built in 1970 which had an economic rent of $15 - by applying the averaging formula all 3 tenants of the 1950, 1960 and 1970 houses would be paying $10, and it is the low $5 figure of 1950 that tends to bring this average rental figure down to $12.30. 
I believed that the constitutional convention to be held this year was to look at the powers of the States and Commonwealth and make recommendations where it felt changes were necessary. But this socialist government in Canberra has seen fit to move quickly ahead of the constitutional convention and by using the power of the purse strings proposes an agreement which will mean a complete takeover in the housing field. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask leave to make a very short statement. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Secondary Industry a question. Yesterday the Minister announced that approval had been given by the Government to import 800 tons of New Zealand potatoes for processing into chips. On what basis did the Minister assess that the importation of these potatoes would alleviate the situation of high prices of fresh raw potatoes to the consumer? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Science. Recently the Minister paid a visit to Geelong to investigate a site for the new $42m National Animal Health Laboratory. Will the Minister inform the House what the site requirements are for this Laboratory so that the Ballarat Development Committee can present to the Government a case for consideration? I would like the Minister to bear in mind that a Ballarat district site could well be superior to those sites already listed for consideration. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Who will bear the cost of the extra precaution placed on quarantine inspection and ofthe lengthy supervision required prior to the processing and during the destruction of peelings as a result of the recent approval for the importation of raw potatoes from New Zealand. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. On 19 December 1972 the Minister issued a statement giving information on the proposed reorganisation of the defence group of departments. The merger of all defence departments bar the Department  of  Supply into one department was to have  been completed by the end of 1973. How far has this defence group reorganisation progressed? Why was the area of procurement not included in the merger as suggested by the Minister? 
At the outset I must say that I do not like socialism and that I do not like these new socialistic philosophies and policies. We are now discussing the estimates for the Department .of Housing. Approximately every 5 years a new housing agreement has been negotiated with the Commonwealth, the 6 States being signatories. The terms of the Agreement were in fact exactly that - an agreement by seven equal partners as to how housing funds would be spent. In the past the 7 housing ministers met regularly and the main argument usually revolved around interest rates and repayment provisions, but at no time was there ever any essence of intervention by the Commonwealth whereby it gave directions to the States as to how the States allocations would be spent. As a policy since 1955 the Victorian Liberal Government has always fostered home ownership amongst low income earners and prior to coming into office in 1955 that Government had estimated that only 52 homes had been sold to housing commission tenants, but in the intervening 17 years the figure has risen to 34,667 out of a total building program of 74,651 units. The Victorian Government has always believed that the ownership of a home is the only opportunity that most people of limited means would have to obtain a real stake in life and its policy was one of no deposit and easy repayments plus a death benefit scheme which relieved the widow of any further repayment on the death of the breadwinner. It also retained a high percentage of houses built each year for rental purposes and kept a fairly even balance between houses built for rental and houses built for sale. 
The Minister has said that the annual determination of the amount to be allocated to a State housing authority for housing would no longer be left entirely to the individual States but would largely be determined by the Commonwealth. Funds for co-operative housing societies were to be cut by 33 per cent and all in all the Minister's statement of 16 January emphasised that the new socialist Government to which he belonged was moving very quickly to reduce the incidence of home ownership in the community with only one target obviously in view, and that was to have as many people as possible throughout Australia dependent entirely on the State for their housing needs. Conferences with the State Ministers were held in Canberra on Friday, 23 March, and in Adelaide on Thursday, 5 April, with all seven Ministers present on both occasions. These ministerial conferences were the strangest that have ever taken place. Votes were taken but not the slightest notice was taken of the wishes of the States, as has been the accepted tradition when the Commonwealth and 6 States come together as 7 equal partners. 
The first statement by the Minister was that there would be no housing commission houses for sale after 30 June 1973. Then there was a change of attitude by him which allowed for 30 per cent of the homes built with the money provided from the Commonwealth to be sold. Great publicity was given by the Commonwealth to the tremendous concessions which were being offered to the States to allow them to sell 30 per cent of the homes. What utter nonesense this was, when in fact Victoria has been selling in excess of SO per cent of the homes it built each year. Each State spoke strongly in favour of an increase from 30 per cent sales to 50 per cent sales. The States firmly believed, following the Adelaide conference and the unanimous decision to increase their house sales from 30 per cent to 50 per cent, that this would be agreed upon by the Commonwealth. The States viewed with great concern the fact that the final draft of the joint agreement allowed for only 30 per cent sales. 
One of the most tragic steps taken by the present Commonwealth Government was the elimination of the $750 home savings grant for married couples. This has been replaced by a proposal that interest on mortgages for home borrowings be tax deductible. But how many young married couples have the initial amount of money in cash which allows them to proceed with a buying program? Permanent building societies, which have done so much over a period of many years in helping people to save and build their own homes, will now fall under the hammer of the present socialist Government. Once again we see the attitude of the socialists is not encouraging people to purchase their own homes. Following the recent increase in interest rates, we can now see a complete winding down of the overall home building program. Throughout Australia many people are in dire need of a home for either renting or buying. Wherever one looks one will find the impersonal hand of socialism playing a most unfortunate part in progress.sively dampening home ownership. 
I wonder what the future holds for us in our housing program when all the time this new socialist policy is moving in and taking its effect. Fewer houses are being built, the demand for houses is increasing, strikes are continual, labour and materials are in short supply. Housing is not a pleasant picture as presently seen throughout Australia. Australia is a young, developing and growing nation. We need houses and we need home ownership. We will not progress under a socialistic policy; we will progress only under a free enterprise policy. 
I wish to ask a question of Minister for Defence. Is it correct that the Airfield Construction Squadron of the Royal 
Australian Air Force, which can construct an airstrip suitable for front line fighters in 7 days, has been disbanded by the Government? How does he propose in any future conflict that RAAF forward airstrips be constructed? 

 - Mr Chairman, I ask you to bear with me for a moment at the opening of my remarks as I wish to congratulate the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on the work that he is doing. I did not get the chance to do this earlier. I believe that the Minister has done an excellent job in a new area. I guess that his main problems will hinge on the very small allocation of money to his Department. But, when proper consideration is given to this allocation, it will be seen that it is certainly the right and proper policy in a period of inflation and shortages. However, I hope that in future years the Minister will be able to attract a considerably larger appropriation. 
The move by the Minister for grants to be made for the preservation of historical sites and buildings is a departure from what one might call the norm, but it is a sound and wise move. This is the only way in which our old historical buildings can be preserved and restored. As I am personally involved in such a venture as the restoration of an historical building, I am closely familiar with the costs involved. It is only when one is faced with such a task that one realises why so much of our history is being destroyed. In many cases the expenditure of large sums of money is not justifiable economically. What the Minister for Tourism and Recreation now intends to do will ensure for the future the preservation of our grand old buildings. But I repeat my hope that, in future years, the appropriation for his Department will be considerably larger. I thank you,  Mr Chairman,  for bearing with me while I placed those comments on record. 
The Committee is discussing now the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I completely and wholeheartedly support plans for the dispersement of our people throughout Australia. However, I do wish to offer certain criticisms. Firstly, the major criticism of the allocation of $93m for the new cities program is the impact that it will have on the current inflationary situation. The bulk of funds being made available will be devoted to land acquisition and there will be a concentration of expenditure in small regions. This, of itself, can be expected to cause inflation through the injection of excess funds to these areas. It should be stated that, if State governments fail to pass necessary land price stabilisation legislation, no funds will be made available for land acquisitions by land commissions. It appears that the land to be acquired is likely to be that which is presently zoned as rural but which is suitable for subdivision for urban purposes within any designated growth centre. This is the same type of land which has put large amounts of money into the hands of developers in both Sydney and Melbourne, and to a lesser extent in other areas. 
However, a policy directed only at land on the urban fringe will short-sightedly neglect the boom that will occur in land in designated growth centres within the present town boundaries. Values of both residential and commercial land within present town boundaries can be expected to escalate rapidly in this circumstance. Examples of this second type of boom abound on the fringe of present cities, the chief examples of the phenomenon being 40 acre weekend farms'. It is doubtful whether price stabilisation will work, and it is possible that an abatement of the land price boom is more likely to be achieved by increasing the supply of subdivided building blocks in the short term. A further criticism of the policy of land acquisition can be directed at the terms on which money is lent to the commissions. At present, the terms being discussed are for money to be made available at the long-term bond rate, with interest repayments being deferred for 10 years and then capitalised into the moneys to be repaid. With the recent upward movement of the bond rate of 8.5 per cent, the capitalisation of interest repayment* for 10 years will have the effect of more than doubling the initial amount of the loan before repayments begin. In this case, the high repayment costs coupled with the cost of developing the blocks - that is, surveying, connection of electricity, gas, water and sewerage service and roads, etc - will result in high land rents being paid by eventual lessees, if a true leasehold system is to obtain. A third criticism of the proposals is that of the selection of a suitable indicator of inflation in calculating the annual increase from the base price of any land the price of which is stabilised. No indicator has yet been selected. If one is chosen which reflects the increase in similar rural land in other centres throughout a particular State, the effect may well be to increase the price of frozen land rather than to leave it stable at constant prices, that is, increased annually only in line with inflation as measured by the consumer price index. 
The proposal to provide $30m in 1973-74 to help overcome the backlog in sewerage services can also be regarded as being inflationary in view of the current labour shortages throughout the economy and particularly in the construction industry. This shortage will be worsened if new subdivisions are to be sewered as they are developed rather than being added to the backlog. From the foregoing it appears that moneys to be expended by the new Department of Urban and Regional Development are likely to be inflationary in their effect on particular regions. More importantly, sums of money are being apportioned without any clear indication that much thought has been given to how policies of land price stabilisation will operate and whether they are, in fact, likely to be effective in halting rising land prices. An examination of the structures of the various Government departments leads one to the conclusion that the Department of Urban and Regional Development in the most top heavy or, in the words of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  it has a greater proportion of fat cats than any other. Using the information supplied in the Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for 1973- 74, a ratio can be determined of Second Division, that is, executive officers, to Third Division, that is, professional and skilled clerical staff. For the Department of Urban and Regional Development this ratio is slightly less than 1:5. Comparable ratios for the administrative section of other departments having a similar co-ordinating function or profession base are: Prime Minister's 1:7, Special Minister of State 1:9; Attorney-Generals 1:10, Foreign Affairs 1:20, Treasury 1:19, Education 1:49. In view of the expected growth of the Public Service wage bill in 1973-74, such a high proportion of executive staff as will exist in the Department of Urban and Regional Development appears unwarranted. The total appropriation for this very new and young Department in its first year of operation is about $208m. So far as the Minister for this new Department is concerned, does this not follow the old saying of putting a beggar on horseback and he will ride to hell'? How can this very large amount of money be efficiently and economically expended at a time when inflation is at its worst in our history, and manpower and materials are in such short supply? 
Australia today is entering an era of development which was never envisaged when the first settlement took place less than two centuries ago, and which was not fully realised even at the time of federation 72 years ago. No time is more opportune than now to take stock, plan ahead and organise so that development will be smooth and beneficial to all and the mistakes of the past will not be repeated or aggravated. There is no doubt in my mind that Australia's No. 1 problem is decentralisation. Decentralisation means far more than encouraging a few industries to establish themselves outside the big capital cities, although this industrial movement may be termed the core of decentralisation. Decentralisation is the spreading of our whole industrial, commercial and business life more evenly over the land we occupy, according to each part's relative capacity. It is a vital national problem, and to succeed it must become a national way of thought. 
We live in a country which, potentially, has the greatest promise of any in the world. What a grand thing it would be if we had a properly distributed population and industrial, transport and commercial strength, which, I believe, are vital necessities for the proper and orderly functioning of our society and the proper and adequate usage of our country. Now that we have our large cities, quite out of proportion to our total population, we are, to use a colloquial term, stuck with them. But if the nation is alert to the potential and actual danger of large cities then the development of these cities can be slowed and a better distribution of population and all the essentials of a modern society can be achieved. Decentralisation must begin at the top. You must have wider and more intimate control through more States, if you are a federalist - and more regions, if you are a centralist - because centralisation of control in the big capital cities is the great barrier to the decentralisation of every other form of activity. All this cannot be achieved overnight, but if the will and the unity of purpose can be found, Australia could witness a revolution in the development of this land that would make her one of the greatest nations on earth. 
To deal fully with the question of new States one must look back to Australia's history to see how the present division of administration occurred and where it fell short of perfection. Its basic cause lies in the fact that for many years after 1788 Britain had no interest in Australia other than as a place in which to dump unwanted citizens. Nor could Britain, at that stage of history, with poor communications, appreciate any real potential in the country. But the spirit of men here was greater than the vision of faraway politicians, and gradually the people spread out from Port Jackson to the north, south and west. 
As new areas developed, demands for selfadministration grew and Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia emerged. It is difficult to understand why the division stopped there. As the people spread north to Queensland and into the New England and Riverina areas of New South Wales one might have expected new colonies to arise as people got further and further away from the centres of administration, particularly in view of the slow transport facilities in those days. Yet today we have large administrative areas in which more than half the people live in or near big capital cities. The remaining half get government at a distance. It is no criticism of a metropolitan government to say that it does not understand or appreciate the day-to day problems of people hundreds of miles away. Members of Parliament are, after all, ordinary people. If a member of Parliament is born and lives practically the whole of his life in say, Sydney he cannot, no matter how hard he may try, have a proper appreciation of the problems of the people of Bourke, or Walgett or Coonabarabran. In the first place, their way of thinking is entirely different; their lives are poles apart. And where there is no real appreciation, and no proper understanding of the problems of others there can, unfortunately, be no true sympathy with them. 
In all the mainland State parliaments metropolitan members outnumber those from the country. In Victoria, for example, there are two metropolitan members to every member from the country. If only half as many people live in the country as in the capital city it not be claimed that this is unfair - no section can claim any greater proportional representation than another - but it does mean that up to two-thirds of the State's parliamentary representatives 'think metropolitan*. This is not unreasonable; in fact it is only natural, as I have already pointed out. But it produces a state of affairs where those outside the big cities get government at a distance, and government not fully sympathetic to their needs. 
I do not suggest for one moment that State governments have been totally unmindful of their obligations to all the people in their States. I am simply suggesting that people living long distances from the centre of administration would be better suited if allowed to conduct their own affairs. The metropolitanmindedness of governments must always be a barrier to proper decentralisation, uvi the claims of success made for decentralisation policies are somewhat exaggerated. 
The big capital cities are still outpacing all other areas. The really big industries have mostly congregated in or near the capitals. After World War II many industries established annexes in country areas, setting them up in old school buildings, public halls or temporary structures. There was never any really permanent aura about them. Certainly some of them have remained, but just as many have long since closed down. The movement &lt; me at a time when labour everywhere war in short supply. These industries soaked up the labour available in the country, and they have now returned to the big cities and have taken this labour with them, actually worsening the position. What happened, of course, in a great number of those instances, was that the industry so established in a country town was just large enough to utilise the spare labour available in and around the town. There were few big enough to create employment opportunities over and above the labour force available locally that would bring new people to the locality. 
The big industries continue to crowd the capital cities. It is argued that they must be established there because that is where the labour is. That is not a wholly valid argument. Obviously the labour is there, because that is where the jobs are. Continuing to provide avenues of employment in the big cities is only further ensuring that more labour congregates there. It must follow that, if jobs are created elsewhere, the labour will move to them. One of the classic examples of this is the Latrobe Valley in Victoria. There could be no suggestion that the great industry of this valley should be established in Melbourne, because the very essence of it, the huge browncoal deposits, happen to be 90 miles away from Melbourne. 
Another example is Broken Hill, a city of 30,000 inhabitants in what is a barren and somewhat unprepossessing area. If labour could be found for the Latrobe Valley because the brown coal was there, and if labour could be found to establish a city of 30,000 people at Broken Hill because the silver-lead was there, it must follow that if a big automobile plant is established in a relatively small town or city the labour will move to it. There is only one difference in the 2 cases. In one case circumstances force the establishment on a site, whereas in the other case private enterprise cannot be forced to set up its establishments in any particular place. But governments may point the way, and can encourage such movements, whilst industry itself should be able to realise that by crowding into the big cities it is contributing to their target potential in time of war and to a bad balance of population in times of peace. In addition to the defence and population imbalance factors, there is a third reason why we must endeavour to slow down, stop, or even reverse, the growth of the big capital cities. It is simply that Australia cannot afford such large cities. A factor not often realised, but nevertheless true, is that big cities cost money. These are costs that every nation must eventually meet, but they should not have to be met on the present scale in a country with a population of only approximately 13 million people. 
Like our over-large administrative divisions, our big cities are a legacy of our history. They began as ports, simply to supply the needs of the settlers. They became the administrative centres for colonies covering large areas. When people began to move inland, the governments stayed where they were. Commerce gathered around them, and eventually industry followed. Because of this administrate failure to reach out into the new land, as the Americans had done, commerce, industry and administration all became concentrated in the one spot. It was simply a case of applying a European administrative concept in an American-sized country. 
There seems to be in Australia a general conception that a State capital must also be the chief port. That is not so. It is interesting to note that of the SO American State capitals only three, Boston in Massachusetts, Providence in Rhode Island and Honolulu in Hawaii are ports, and of these only Boston can be regarded as being a port of any importance in the American scene. There is also the view that the capital must be the largest city. Again, only 14 of the 50 American State capitals fall into this category. Obviously when, a century ago, our States became selfgoverning colonies, no consideration was given to whether the place where the administration had been set up for the convenience of far away England was, in fact, the best site for the capital of the colony. 
It is interesting to note that, in the last 100 years, the population of Ballarat has risen from approximately 47,000 to approximately 65,000, while that of Brisbane has increased from 22,000 to 817,000. The fact that Brisbane became the chief port for the south Queensland area made it inevitable that it would leap ahead of Ballarat which was, in any case, bound to lose population as the gold rush subsided. However, it is obvious that the retention of administration at Brisbane has resulted in the proportional increase being out of all reason. Naturally at this stage it is too late to make a change. Leaving aside the enormous cost that such moves would involve, it is doubtful whether any useful purpose would be achieved, for the capitals have developed where they are. However we should recognise them as mistakes of the past and not repeat them in the future. 
Unfortunately the mistake is already being repeated in Darwin. The capital of a territory 1,000 miles long, it is being groomed as a future State capital for the whole of that area. It is the chief port, the chief air terminal and the administrative centre. As Darwin grows, commercial and industrial life will concentrate there while the remainder of activity in the Territory, except for mining and a few other allied industries, will be left to develop more slowly. It is another Sydney or Melbourne in embryo, and 100 or 150 years from now the scattered inland people will feel just as badly about metropolitan-dominated government there as country people in New South Wales do now. Darwin has an assured future as a port and an air terminal. The Government should be assuring a future for some other centre. 
The establishment of new States cannot adjust Australia's population imbalance overnight. In fact the big cities have such a start that there will always be a fairly bad imbalance. However, with a realistic administrative approach to the problem, new States will achieve much that is worthwhile. First, they will give people who are now a long way from their administrative centres the opportunity to govern themselves. Secondly, they will produce more compact areas, with which the administration will be in closer touch. Thirdly, they will provide an opportunity to draw indus.tires to particular areas. Fourthly, provided the total force is not simply enlarged, they will draw their public service from the existing and reduced States, bringing with them people to provide the necessary additional services. Fifthly, they will create avenues of employment; they will have to draw on the big cities for labour. Lastly, they will produce a change in the 'centre of gravity' of people's thinking, a new spirit and a new interest. All these factors must tend to slow down the growth of the big cities and build up smaller cities elsewhere, but they must be accompanied by a virile decentralisation policy in the States governed from the big capitals to ensure a better dispersal of population to the new areas. 
Many proposals for new States have been made. The most active movement has been in the New England area of New South Wales. Proposals have also been made for new States in the northern half of Queensland, in the 
Riverina area of New South Wales, in the south-eastern corner of Australia - taking in a section of New South Wales and a section of Victoria - and in the western section of Victoria and the southeast of South Australia. This would give a total of 1 1 States, but there is sufficient population for 13 States to be formed in the populated areas of Australia. I suggest that 7 developmental regions should be established in the more sparsely populated area. It is difficult to say by what rules one would determine an area's ability to govern itself but it would appear that when some of the existing States assumed self-government a population of somewhere between 40,000 and 60,000 was considered sufficient. All of the proposed 13 States would have populations well in excess of the 60,000 mark. However, if any principle of minimum population were adopted, it would affect the future of the suggested development regions. 
There must be a general awakening to the fact that if we are retain our present standards of living we must decentralise. There also must be a re-adjustment of the financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. There must be a re-appraisal of the role of the Commonwealth and the States. There must be a properly integrated interstate highway system and a modern, efficient railway service. Since the war years, mainly because the Australian Government gained taxing powers by means of the Defence Act, the position of the States within the framework of the governments of Australia - Federal State and local - has greatly lessened and weakened. This weakening continues as the Australian Government moves into the various spheres of State government responsibility. Those of us who believe in the federal system rather than unification must work for the formation of new States and the strengthening of their status and importance in the areas of their responsiblity. The question is: Do we fool &lt;about with this problem for the next 25 years or do we sit down in a responsible manner and work out our destiny in a quite and orderly way? The land is here for us to use. We must use it so that no one will challenge our right to any portion of it and so that the millions of Australians yet to come will be able to rejoice in the heritage that will be there. 
Debate (on motion by Mir Scholes) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended  from  6.7 to 8  p.mn. 
I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question without notice. First of all, I wish to thank him for coming to Ballarat last evening to unveil the original Eureka flag. Will the Prime Minister now encourage the Minister for Recreation and Tourism to be generous when approached by the State Minister for an allocation of money for the building of a Eureka museum at the Stockade? 
I preface a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development by saying that I must be important in the mind of the Minister. Last Saturday week a Commonwealth car driver from Melbourne hand-delivered to me at my Ballarat address, a distance of 70 miles from Melbourne, a letter from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. The letter contained information that the Minister's Department had allocated the sum of $20,000 to the Bacchus Marsh Shire Council for the purpose of acquiring land in the Bacchus Marsh Shire for 'open space and community facilities'. I ask the Minister: Did he instruct that the letter be hand-delivered, and is this usual practice within the Minister's administrative responsibilities? 
I wish to ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development a question. During the recent election campaign in Ballarat I was criticised by my Australian Labor Party opponent on the ground that I had not put sufficient pressure on the Minister to have Ballarat declared a growth centre. I ask: Where do I have to apply further pressure on the Minister to have Ballarat declared a growth centre? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Wages, salaries and conditions of the staff of this Parliament are supposed to be under the direct jurisdiction of the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. You are familiar with the fact that in practice the Public Service Board gives you guidance and warning of flow-ons in a number of the service areas. As this Parliament operates under the most unusual conditions and hours of service, would you,  Mr Speaker,  give consideration to the formulation of a Bill which would without doubt place wages, salaries and conditions of the staff of this Parliament in the area of a statutory authority? 
-During the 1 950s and early 1 960s our major mineral exports were silver, lead, zinc, copper and gold, based on European and American markets. In 1960 the total value of Australian exports was $A363m. As the emphasis in exports shifted during the 1960s to iron ore, bauxite- including aluminaand black coal, Australia's trade with Japan increased. In 1964 Japan accounted for 32 per cent of Australia's mineral exports. By 1971 this had risen to 55.6 per cent or $Al,287m with iron ore, black coal and bauxite our major exports. Athough Japan's consumption of Australian minerals has increased drastically, world consumption has risen at a rate of about 4.5 per cent per annum. Japan's rate of increase has been 2 or 3 times that of other industrial nations and it is now the world 's largest importer of iron ore, coking coal, crude oil and lead, zinc and nickel in concentrate form. However, the increasing world demand for minerals cannot be regarded in isolation as creating favourable circumstances for the Australian mining boom of the 1960s. Other contributing technical and economic factors have been: The technical advances in the exploration, production and processing of minerals; improved methods of bulk transport; the longterm purchase contracts which have enabled the establishing and financing of new, large scale mining ventures and the economies of large scale production. 
The 1938 ban on the export of iron ore was eased off from 1960 to encourage exploration. Both Australian and overseas corporations showed great interest in developing the Pilbara deposits in Western Australia with a view to supplying the Japanese market. With the complete lifting of the export ban, the Australian Government retained an oversight of export prices as the only purpose of export control. The prices obtained during the 1 960s for the long-term contracts were adequate considering the then existing market forces, for despite this general growth of iron ore production and exports from Australia during the 1960s the market did have its problem periods. In the second half of the decade there was a general downward trend in world prices, brought about by the increase in the number of iron ore suppliers and by a partial slowing down in the growth rate of demand. A general increase in demand on the world market occurred during 1968 and in 1970 prices improved. Some Australian companies were able to benefit from the situation and negotiate new contracts at higher prices. Buoyant conditions remained during 1970-7 1, but owing to the combination of circumstances of a recession in the steel industry in Europe and the United States of America and the enforced cutback of steel production in Japan, demand for new materials declined in 1971. The Japanese demand drifted downwards through 1972 and for the first quarter of 1973 when they imported only 1 1,000 tonnes of iron ore. The drop in demand quickly reversed in the second quarter of 1973 when they imported 95,000 tonnes of ore, being the highest import since the third quarter of 1 970. 
After exchange rate adjustments in the United States and the Australian dollar it was announced in May 1973 after negotiations between Australia iron ore exporters and Japanese steel mills that prices for iron ore for delivery to Japan would be increased to compensate for the reduced value of sales contracts because of devaluation of the United States dollar. The Minister for Minerals and Energy, who intervened in the negotiations by using the threat of export controls over mineral contracts, described the rises as very satisfactory from Australia's viewpoint. 
Early in 1974 negotiations for price increases were undertaken between the major Australian iron ore producers and Nippon Steel Corporation, representing the major Japanese steel producers. An offer of a 24 per cent increase in total revenue was made which the Minister rejected. By August 1974 the increase had been renegotiated to a level of  2&amp;Vi  per cent bringing the price of Australian iron ore more in line with world prices. The average price increase for Australian ore was U.S.S2.25 per tonne which increases the Australian price to U.S.$ 16.09. 
Prior to the 1960s Australia's coal production was largely geared to domestic needs for iron and steel production, power generation and general industrial use: Exports were of little significance. However, industrial development overseas, especially in Japan, expanded the export market, and on the supply side the development of large scale open cut mining allowed comparatively low production costs per ton. Relatively low cost transport in large tonnage ships also became available. Up until 1973 Japan had been pursuing a determined policy of seeking alternative forms of energy- producing fuels- and was using large quantities of petroleum fuels, with the result that between 1960 and 1969 the percentage of coal used for power generation was reduced from 35 per cent of the total to 2 per cent. It was therefore in the field of coking coal, used in steel production, that Australia had the greatest export potential. Increases in Australian coal production have been principally of coking coal destined for export. 
Price rises for our export coal were renegotiated after the Arab members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, known as OPEC, increased the price of oil and cut production. This was at a time when Japan was finding it difficult to maintain her supply for fuel. Price increases ranging from 6 to 16 per cent were obtained. The Minister for Minerals and Energy had been very critical of the existing coal contract prices in his early days in office and the reports of these price rises claim that this criticism aided the negotiations. In June this year the Japanese steel industry renegotiated the price of coking coal from Australia. These negotiations were initially at the request of the Japanese for Queensland coking coal but were extended to all Australian coking coal being exported. The Japanese price increases were effective from 1 April 1 974 whilst the new prices for Europe commenced 1 July 1974. 
I turn now to bauxite. Aluminium production has increased tremendously, with Australia changing from a position of being unable to meet domestic requirements to that of being one of the world's major sources of bauxite and alumina and a net exporter of aluminium. During the 1960s world demand for aluminium products rose sharply and Australia's rapidly developing resources were able to meet the demand. Exports of bauxite and associated products now contribute about one-sixth of total mineral export earnings. Exports to Japan of the whole range of aluminium materials have been estimated at 30 per cent of total Australian exports of these items. 
Australia has been a signatory of the International Bauxite Agreement since September 1974. The objectives of the association are: To promote the orderly and national development of the bauxite industry; to secure for member countries fair and reasonable returns from the exploration, processing and marketing of bauxite and its products for the economic and social development of their peoples, bearing in mind the recognised interest of consumers; generally to safe guard the interests of member countries in relation to the bauxite industry. When the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  circulated the text of the Agreement to members he said: 
We want to ensure that our resources command a fair price in world markets. 
Official trade statistics for bauxite and associated products are difficult to obtain but it is understood that negotiations on long term export contract price for Australian materials are being carried out with the general aim of aligning our bauxite export prices with prices charged by member countries of the Bauxite Association. I support the Government's policy on minerals but I am afraid that I am unable to support its policy on oil. I cannot support the removal of the subsidies which were given for oil drilling. 
I wish to say a few words on the proposal to reorganise the Australian Post Office. The Government has decided that from as early as possible in 1975 and no later than 1 July 1975 a postal commission and a telecommunications commission should assume responsibility for the provision of postal and telecommunications services respectively. Interim chairmen for the 2 commissions have been appointed and an inter-departmental working group has been established to consider the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. The report of the Commission was presented to the GovernorGeneral on 19 April 1974. 
Chapter 6 of the Commission's report deals with the case for the separation of postal and telecommunications administrations. It is only as a matter of history that those 2 different functions are administered together. In practice there is a growing de facto separation within the Australian Post Office. The 2 functions differ in their growth rates. The growth rate of the postal service is tending to equate with the rate of growth of the population. The growth rate of the telecommunications service is increasing sharply. The consultants to the Commission stated that the similarities between the 2 services begin and end with the fact that both communicate information. The telecommunications function uses advanced technology and has high capital investment in relation to employment. The postal service is labour-intensive, with a relatively small capital investment and modest technological resources. Persons working in the 2 areas require different skills and a different management expertise is appropriate to each. Over 90 per cent of the existing staff- numbering 1 30,372 persons at 30 June 1973- are involved solely in either postal or telecommunications activities. 
The operations of the Australian Post Office are very large and possibly have reached the point where false economies are arising from its great size and spread. Two separate organisations would be more capable of being operated efficiently and would be more manageable. The size of the present operations is indicated by the following statistics: Revenue in 1972-73 amounted to $937m; capital expenditure in the same year amounted to $500m; and Australian Government funds employed as at 30 June 1973 amounted to $3, 180m. It should be noted that the proposal to replace the Postmaster-General's Department by commissions will not involve such a change of financial and accounting procedures as it would with other departments. Since 1968 the Department has not been financed in the same way as normal departments. In that year a separate Post Office trust account was established. Revenue goes into that fund and expenditure is made from that fund, with any deficit being covered by borrowing from Treasury on which interest is payable. 
The Post Office is permitted to be more flexible than other departments in relation to its expenditure proposals. It can change its proposals during a financial year without parliamentary approval. Post Office accounting is closer to normal corporate accounting than are other departments. Provision is made for depreciation of fixed assets and for superannuation and long service leave. The only major departure from normal corporate accounting is that no income tax is payable on profits earned. Telecommunications consistently have earned profits and postal services just as consistently have suffered losses. For the period 1959-60 to 1972-73 the telecommunications profits were $226.9m and the postal service losses were $138.2m. 
In summary, then, the existing Australian Post Office embraces 2 functions that differ in their technology, their requirements for labour and capital and the skills required of their labour force. They have differing growth rates and markedly different profitabilities. The combined operations are possibly too large for efficient management and operation. Because of their differing techniques and capital/labour ratios, they would be more manageable separately. To a large extent separation already exists in fact within the Australian Post Office so far as staff is concerned. I support this proposal. 
-I ask the Prime Minister the following question: Following the tragic event of cyclone Tracy, did any foreign countries offer assistance? If so, can those foreign countries be named? 
-Following recommendations in a Tariff Board report of 30 June 1973 on 'Motion Picture Films and TV Programs', an Australian Film Commission Bill 1974 was first introduced into the Senate in September 1974 by the Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland. It was passed by the Senate in October with a number of amendments and deletions forced by the Opposition Parties. It was introduced into this House in October, and the Bill was finally read a third time in November with most but not all of the Senate alterations removed. The Bill has now been presented to the House a second time by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  a Minister representing the Minister for the Media, in essentially similar form to that passed by the House in November. 
The Austraiian Film Commission is intended to administer the principal forms of assistance provided by the Australian Government for the development of the film and television program production industries. The Commission will include firstly, Film Australia, the Australian Government's film production and distribution arm, which makes films for Australian Government departments and instrumentalities, together with films dealing with matters of national interest. Film Australia, formerly the Commonwealth Film Unit within the Department of the Interior, now lies within the Department of the Media. Its creation as a separate statutory authority had been mooted for some time in order to enhance its creative freedom, remove bureaucratic inhibitions, mainly audit and Treasury, and prevent its use as a mere propaganda medium for the government of the day. Secondly, the Commission will include the Australian Film Development Corporation, established by statute in 1970, which is required to support the production and distribution of Aus.tralian films, both for cinema and television, showing some prospects of commercial success, and able to achieve high technical and artistic standards. The Corporation's activities are limited by virtual restriction to enterprises of a commercial nature, and exclusion from general promotion and exhibition roles. 
The Commission will also include most of the functions of the Film and Television board of the Australian Council for the Arts, excluding the Board's Experimental Film Fund. The Minister for the Media issued a Press release on 10 December 1973 stating that: 
Portions of the Film and Television Development Fund be divided between the Australian Council and the Australian Film Commission on a basis to be agreed between the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Media. ' 
Apart from the Experimental Film Fund, the Tariff Board in its 1973 report specified that assistance was granted through 2 other funds. These are the General Production Fund for Projects- especially from experienced film makers- which are of a high standard but which were not necessarily commercial propositions, and the Script Development Fund for full-time development of a film of television screenplay or treatment by directors and/or writers. Second reading speeches on the Film Commission Bill have failed to explain further the mechanism for this proposed division. This undefined, shared responsibility for assistance to film in Australia between the proposed Commission and the Film and Television Board could well lead to unnecessary overlap and contradiction in future policies and procedures. The previously mentioned Tariff Board report had in fact recommended in essence that all of the Film and Television Board's funding authority be administered and controlled by the new Commission. 
Broadly, the proposed Film Commission's functions will now include: The encouragement, whether by the provision of financial assistance or otherwise, of the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films and television programs; the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of any film and television programs, or the commission of these activities; assistance to a State or State authority for the purchase of Australian films of an educational nature and of national interest or importance; and the encouragement of proper keeping of films in archives in Australia and provision of financial assistance, if necessary, for this purpose. An interim board for the Australian Film Commission was appointed in February 1974 to advise the Minister for the Media on policy matters associated with the formation of the Commission and to carry out preliminary planning tasks. 
Our opposition and criticism of the BUI surrounds the statutory authority autonomy and ministerial control. The Opposition, throughout debate in the Senate and in the House has maintained that a statutory authority such as the Film Commission should enjoy much greater independence from ministerial direction and approvals than the Government has in fact allowed. Commissioners of 'experience, wisdom and ability' should be largely responsible (through the Commission) to the Australian Parliament. Clause 5( 1 ) (b) reads as follows: 
The functions of the Commission are- 
subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any nlms and, in particular- 
Alms that serve the purposes of a Department of State or an authority of Australia; 
films that deal with matters of national interest to Australia; and 
films that are designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people. 
The government has submitted that inclusion of the phrase 'subject to the approval of the Minister' in this proposed section is to direct the former Film Australia component of the Commission in continued film production for and on behalf of the Australian Government in what is basically an industrial promotion activity. The Opposition has unsuccessfully argued for the deletion of the phrase on the grounds that, firstly, it is undesirable to so control by ministerial oversight the day to day operations and directions of a statutory authority and, secondly, political censorship could arise, with accompanying power to influence people 's minds, especially via the compulsory exhibition directives in clause 10 of the Bill. 
Contrary to the major thrust of the government's argument, ministerial approval in this clause is not restricted to the promotional requirements of departments, but extends to all production, promotion, distribution and exhibition activities of the Commission, without, of course, encompassing its encouragement functions in those areas. Such control must of necessity severely inhibit the creative initiatives of the Film Australia section, depending upon the particular political motivations and social outlook of the incumbent Minister. If the Government remains insistent that it control the Commission for purposes of departmental industrial promotion activities, it could well consider separation of (b) (i) from (b) (ii) and (b) (hi) in clause 5( 1 ), to allow the general production of Australian films to proceed in maximum freedom without the threat of ministerial interference. Ministerial approval might then only apply to paragraph (b) (i) of clause 5(1). 
The Opposition has also unsuccessfully moved in the Senate for removal of ministerial approval from clause 7, which allows the Commission to form or participate in companies for certain purposes appropriate to its functions. The Government has pointed to a similar provision in the Act establishing the Australian Film Development Corporation. Clause 8, removed by the Senate and now re-inserted by the House, enables the Minister to direct the Commission in writing on films of a kind referred to clause 5(1) paragraphs (b) (i), (ii) and (iii). The Opposition argued against such an approach on grounds as previously stated, whilst also emphasising that how a film should be made could simply be resolved in normal commercial clientcommission agreements. The Government has acknowledged some inadequacy in the original draft by accepting an amendment which provides that the Minister must table in the Parliament his directions, and reasons, within 1 5 sitting days of their being given. 
This Bill does not directly tackle one of the principal areas of recommendation by the Tariff Board report, in which it described the concentration of power that now exists in the hands of a few major exhibition chains, the opportunities for overseas film provided by this concentration and the control exercised over exhibition chains by the owners of these films. The board in fact made two major recommendations: 
Firstly, that there be a limitation on the share of the total number of exhibition outlets held by one person or company in certain key areas; and secondly, that there be limitations on the ownership or control of exhibition companies by producers or distributors. 
However, clause 10, removed by the Senate and now reinserted by the House, places a requirement upon exhibitors for the showing of numbers of non-sponsored Australian short films. The Opposition thought that this section would militate against commercial viability and allow commercial film makers to suffer unfair competition from government documentary and propaganda films produced under direction and approval of the Minister. This latter category, included under clause 10 because the definition of Australian short films in the Bill encompasses films referred to in clause 5 (1) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii), might swamp films made by small-time producers. The Government has now included amendments to clause 10, sub-clauses (6) and (7), which require regulations to be made for the exercise of powers under the clause. Even with these amendments, however, the clause was unacceptable in its entirety to the Senate Opposition as it was argued that the regulations need not specify the proportions of different categories of shorts which were required to be screened. 
The Senate Opposition, as an alternative to elimination of all of clause 10, attempted unsuccessfully to place films of clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii), that is, government films, under the sponsored films excluded from the definition of an Australian short film in clause 3(1). The minister rejected this compromise as destroying the film-making capacity of the Film Australia arm of the Commission, although it is clear that exhibitors are nevertheless able to show government films, albeit not compulsorily. 
I refer now to pecuniary interests and membership. Clause 21 excludes persons with interests in small companies, that is not less than 25 persons, from full-time membership of the Commission. The Senate Opposition eliminated this clause, now re-inserted, by stressing the limits it placed on skilled people available for selection as Commissioners. Indeed there would appear little need for the restriction, provided that pecuniary interests are declared, and participation in relevant proceedings is avoided, as generally enforced in clause 22. Contrariwise, the Government has insisted that it wishes fulltime members to devote their full time to their Commission employment. It argued that this would not be possible for the excluded category of company people. Potential full-time appointees could always divest themselves of their monetary interests, perhaps by means of a trustee arrangement. 
It was considered by the Senate Opposition that clause 41, generally exempting the Commission from taxation, was unnecessary. The provision was thus removed in the Senate but reinserted by the House on the basis that the Commission was not a profit-making body in competition with the private sector and that similar bodies such as the Australian Film Development Corporation and the Australian Tourist Commission were covered by similar provisions. 
Other Opposition amendments accepted by the Government were: Clause 6 (4) relating to Commission guarantees; elimination of 12 (2), concerning a compulsory requirement to supply information; elimination from clause 14(1) of delegations to 'a member of the staff of the Commission'. Another criticism is the comment I have previously made on the shared role of the Australian Film Commission and the Film and Television Board of the Australian Council for the Arts, under the section describing the Board's functions in 5 (b). 
Clauses 15 and 16 specify the membership and duration of membership of the Commission. The Commission's functions include both financial and artistic judgment components. Failure to specify community groups from which membership is to be drawn, as is done in the Australia Council BUI currently before the House, could lead the Government, for safety's sake, to make all appointments from the business of Public Service sectors. Such a pokey, plus membership terms of 5 years, rather than 3 years as in the Australia Council Bill, with eligibility for immediate reappointment, might establish a Commission which is essentially creatively and innovatively moribund. 
Colin Bennett, the 'Age' film critic, on 12 March 1974 wrote about the interim commission as follows 
Bankers, businessmen and public servants are essential to any board of the kind, but should they dominate it to this extent- especially those who know little about the state of the cinema, present or even past? 

 -Mr Speaker, I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on being elected to your high office and to wish you well in your new post. At the same time, I should like to express some regard and feeling for former  Mr Speaker  Cope, whom I have known in this Parliament for many years. 
To my mind, there is no doubt that the present divorce law is inadequate. That is not to say that I am satisfied with the provisions of the proposed legislation. In contrast to the Family Law Bill's single ground for dissolution- the irretrievable breakdown of marriage- the present Act lists 14 grounds for the dissolution of marriage, of which eleven are based upon fault or some element of fault. In practice, the grounds of desertion for 2 years, separation for 5 years, adultery and cruelty which are available almost immediately, accounted for 95 per cent of all dissolutions granted in Australia in 1972. It is interesting to note that in 1968 the single ground of desertion accounted for 45.3 per cent of dissolutions, but in 1972 this single ground accounted for only 37.3 per cent of dissolutions. In 1968 the single ground of separation for 5 years accounted for 18.3 per cent of dissolutions, but in 1972 this single ground accounted for only 15.7 per cent. On the other hand, the 'quickie ' grounds of adultery arid cruelty showed a quite different pattern over the same period. In 1968 the single ground of adultery accounted for 24.3 per cent of dissolutions of marriage, but in 1972 the figure had risen to 32.6 per cent. In 1968 the single ground of cruelty accounted for only 6.2 per cent of dis- solutions  Kilt in 1 Q70 th/&gt;  figure  VivA  risen  tn 51  8.8  ------ - ,--- -  '  - "0"~  per cent. So we see clearly that there has been a considerable rise in the percentage of dissolutions granted on 'quickie ' grounds. 
I understand that it is generally accepted by divorce practitioners that in most cases of marriage failure both parties are at fault or neither is at fault. Instances of one-sided fault are extremely rare. Yet in 1972, in firm opposition to common experience, over 80 per cent of all marriage dissolutions granted assigned unilateral blame to one partner. In evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in September last year  Mr Ray  Watson, Q.C., stated: 
I see no value in a divorce law whereby the community seeks to assign blame and enter judgement of culpability when a marriage has failed. Such a code offends my sense of justice and compassion . . . The stability of marriage is not buttressed by assigning blame for breakdown. Rather it is buttressed by proper preparation for and understanding of marriage, the values and standards of the community, and the capacity for commitment and selflessness in the individuals in that community. Whereas the incidence of divorce may be related to the nature of the divorce laws, there is no proof that the incidence of marriage breakdown bears any relation to those laws. 
In his recent publication 'No Fault Divorce', Michael Wheeler has written that wrongdoing is not the only thing that can kill marriages. Time changes people, people can grow apart, and marriage can die a natural death. At its occasional best, fault divorce deals only with manifestations of marital breakdown, but it never goes to its roots. Incompatibility, whether of temperament, goals or values, is probably the basic cause of many divorces. In most divorces, both partners usually wish the marriage to end. The fault system requires one of the marriage partners- it usually is the wife- to initiate proceedings. Such uncontested divorces, where there are often no actual facts which constitute grounds to the satisfaction of the courts, lead to situations being trumped up, and as a result the courts may determine very little of the truth behind the breakdown of the marriage. 
Alternatively, where the husband and wife have become deeply estranged, they may use the courts to inflict suffering upon one another. The accompanying bitterness, embarrassment and distress, including the insistence on guilt and innocence, can be psychologically destructive, not only to the marriage partners but to their children as well. In 1972 about 80 per cent of all divorces granted relied on grounds which involved waiting periods of 2 years or less from the commision of the offence- cruelty, desertion and adultery. Adultery, in theory, requires virtually no delay prior to the initiation of proceedings. 
Under the proposed new legislation, an application for divorce cannot be made until the end of 12 months continuous separation. It has been claimed that it is a rare case where the facts cannot be manipulated to establish desertion. The number of divorces granted by Australian courts increased by 45 per cent between 1 968 and 1 972 but, as I mentioned earlier, the percentage of dissolutions allowed on the grounds of desertion fell from 45.3 per cent to 37.3 per cent while those allowed on the grounds of adultery rose from 24.3 per cent to 32.6 per cent. These figures would suggest a greater degree of adulterous relationships within the general community, or on the other hand they could be seen to reflect a need to perjure oneself or engage in collusion in order to gain a ground for quick divorce. 
The increase in adultery cases, along with the large recent rises in total divorces, might also indicate that divorce has become more socially acceptable, and that greater numbers of people are now willing to allow the fact of an extra-marital affair to be publicly displayed. The current Act, in my view, does not possess adequate and effective reconciliation provisions. It does not make counselling available prior to the institution of divorce proceedings, in order to allow marriage partners who may otherwise act hastily to reflect more coolly upon their situation with the meditation of professional counsellors. Adversary fault procedures also make reconciliation more difficult when the parties must appear to be estranged for legal purposes. 
Welfare and counselling services are attached to the family court created by the legislation under debate. As well as providing pre-divorce application reconciliation facilities, this arm of the court would act as a clearing house for information on the consequences of divorce, financial and custodial proceedings, particularly concerning the effect on children of the marriage. Counselling opportunities would be published as appropriate. 
A very strong argument for counselling facilities attached to a court hinges upon the court's ability to reach people in difficulties, and thus its good position to offer help if required. In California, many of the county courts have a voluntary conciliation process which is open to people irrespective of whether they have filed for divorce. In particular the Los Angeles program, which has been in existence since 1939, has been considered to be most effective. In some years, more than half the couples seen have agreed to stay married. This success is attributed to the voluntary nature of well-established procedures, in which counsellors can concentrate on people who have the best chance of reconciling; on counselling availability prior to filing for divorce; on the high professional quality of the conciliation staff; and on the use of formal conciliation agreements. Marriage counselling is no cure-all, especially when it comes after one of the partners has asked for a divorce. Voluntary court conciliation services may not actually change the minds of many people but they can in many cases provide a face-saving device to allow people to back away from a hasty decision. They can help people to do what they really want to do but are afraid to do on their own. 
It could be said that, relative to the current Act, there may be some expedition of divorce proceedings under the proposed enactments, but in practice that quickening would be marginal for the vast majority of divorce cases. There are those who would argue that the marginal quickening might well be more than counterbalanced by the substantially enhanced dignity and cleanness of the marriage break and the resulting lack of hypocrisy and dishonesty in proceedings previously based on fictitious adultery and desertion. 
I have pointed out some of the weaknesses in the present Act and the sharp increases in the number of 'quickie' divorces, but I cannot altogether go along with the proposed legislation, which will allow one of the partners in marriage to be able to choose his or her own ball game. For that reason I support an amendment which was moved in the Senate and which I feel was an excellent amendment. It was moved there by  Senator Baume  of New South Wales and was in the following terms: 
The parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 2 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
The parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and  apart  for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of the mar- '  riage  and neither  party  opposes the dissolution of the marriage. 
I would support that kind of amendment. I believe that that is where the weakness of the proposed legislation really manifests itself. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Before calling the honourable member for Darling I would like to make a request to the House. 1 appreciate that the honourable member for Ballaarat, who has just resumed his seat, restrained his speaking time to about 12 minutes. It is, of course, completely within the rights of all honourable members to take the full 20 minutes which they are allowed to make a speech, but a continuation of the pattern established earlier this morning along those lines would lead to very great difficulty in pursuing the second reading stage of the debate as far as we would like to on this special sitting day. I simply put that as a request to honourable members and hope that they will co-operate with it. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.43)- I will do my best to comply with your request,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I wanted to point out at the outset that I am not opposed to divorce as such. I believe that it is often the only humane solution to a tragic situation. I felt some necessity to make that statement because some honourable members who have spoken in support of the Bill have suggested that some honourable members are opposed to the Bill on religious grounds and are trying to impose their religious beliefs upon the rest of society. I do not think anyone should oppose the Bill on those grounds. As a matter of fact, I have taken some guidance from the comments of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when he informed the House that the Bill was not a government measure but that it had been presented to the House for the purpose of sounding out the House on what amendments are required or what reform is required in relation to the divorce laws. 
I do not think any honourable member has the right to say that another honourable member is opposing the Bill on religious grounds and is trying to impose those beliefs on the rest of society. If this were so, it would be just as legitimate to say that those who support the Bill are doing so on anti-Christian grounds and are trying to force their pagan beliefs on society. I do not hold with either of these arguments. There have been plenty of examples both inside and outside this Parliament to support my beliefs. We have seen some of our friends divorced and happily remarried. What the supporters of this Bill have often failed to point out is that most of these happy remarriages have occurred under the provisions of the Matrimonial Causes Act, which this Family Law Bill is not trying to amend but is trying to slash to pieces. 
The supporters of the amendment do  not  claim that there should not be divorce law reforms, but we point out that this Bill goes a lot further. It deals with the family- the duties of a husband and wife to each other, their children and also their property rights. It alters the meaning of marriage and the family- a meaning that has been formulated by the vast majority of Australians out of a long line of family associations, family example and family instruction. I believe that it has been formulated to such an extent that it is loved and cherished. The main desire of most Australian mothers and fathers would be to see a son or daughter happily married and enjoying the gratification of a married life such as they have enjoyed. I believe that the Senate proved it was well aware of this universal love and respect for marriage and the family, because it inserted a clause defining marriage and the family that endorses and supports the statements I have made. T refer to clause 43 which states: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children; 
I believe this interpretation is consistent with convention and public opinion. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  has given us his opinion on the part that convention and public opinion should play in the laws of Australia. He said Australian laws rest to a large degree on convention and public opinion. Clause 43 indicates that this meaning of marriage and the family is the foundation of our way of life. In my opinion, it is the only foundation on which a decent society can survive. It is the only foundation on which society has any moral right to survive. The tragedy is that clause 43, which was an amendment to the Bill, was only an afterthought. The Bill does not gather any strength or support from this noble interpretation. As I say, the clause was put in only as an afterthought. 
As a matter of fact, many parts of the Bill regard that cherished desire of both past and present generations of Australians. The Bill disregards it in many clauses but it does so in no uncertain manner in clauses 48 and 49. It is in those clauses that the Bill changes the meaning of marriage and the family from a position where marriage can be dissolved only after valid, objective tests of irretrievable breakdown are applied by the court to a position in which it is mandatory on the court to dissolve a marriage if one of the marriage partners who is an applicant for divorce and who has been of sound mind says in evidence that neither of the parties wishes the marriage to continue. That means that the male partner to the marriage can live for 12 months with his fancy girl friend and during that time he can even have his washing done by his wife, because the Bill states that there are certain domestic services which the parties can provide one to the other or to each other. 
The 12 months no fault abandonment clause will allow a guilty party to cohabit with another person, with the possibility of further offspring. I am told by social workers that that sort of situation often puts the innocent party in such a position that she could easily fall into the same trap out of lonliness, out of the need for company, and certain other things. I believe that no member of this Parliament should condone or encourage such a situation. I believe it is our duty to stand up and condemn it. But the Bill does the very opposite. It gives legislative support to such a situation. It leans to the notion that marriage can be entered into and, if it is not all that is desired, can be quickly and easily terminated. 
Another presumption of the Bill to which I am opposed and which I believe is unacceptable to the majority of Australians is that once the marriage is dissolved the husband and wife can begin a new life on equal terms. This may be the case in some professional families, but in the majority of working families where the wife has no professional qualifications it would impose severe hardship upon her and, if there are some children- in most cases they wish to remain with their mother-it would also impose severe harship on these children. 
Clause 72 removes from the husband his present legal duty to maintain his wife. But it goes even further. It imposes on the wife a positive legal duty to maintain herself. I believe that the question of a married woman working is althogether different from the question of a duty being imposed on a married woman to work. In my view, that clause should be deleted entirely from the Bill. I believe that we should change those parts of the divorce laws which are unjust. I have sincere sympathy for a man who is put in gaol because of the actions of a vicious woman who may not .be morally entitled to receive maintenance. We all know that there are plenty of people in those circumstances. While that may be so, I do not think it should give anyone the mandate to tear up the traditional meaning and importance of marriage and the family. In the family a child learns at an early age to relate to other people. If we take away the stability of family life in early childhood I believe that we reduce the opportunities for a child to enjoy a wholesome and gratifying childhood. 
I am not a legal man but I would like to have touched on some of the legal points in the Bill. However, I will take your guidance,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and wind up my remarks by saying that I hope the House will support the amendment because I think that it does try to remove many of the undesirable features of the Bill. I think the amendment returns marriage to its traditional position, as envisaged by the clause that was inserted as an amendment by the Senate, as the basic and fundamental group unit of our society. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. For the information of the Minister there are approximately 60 students attending the Ballarat Institute of Advanced 
Education who have not as yet received any tertiary allowance payments for 1975. Many of these students are in adverse financial circumstances. What is the reason for such late payments? How does he intend to overcome this difficulty in the future? 
-I wish to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture a question. Has the Minister any evidence to show that the potato importer processors in Australia have manipulated the industry in favour of the processors? Will the Minister introduce a means whereby the importer has to submit to a Government department the quantities ordered at the time the orders are made? 
Has the Prime Minister been made aware that certain trade unions in 
Australia have during the last 12 months canvassed members for monetary donations which were to be made available to the communist Fretilin forces in Portuguese East Timor? Is the Prime Minister in a position to know whether money or materials have left Australia to aid the Fretilin forces? 
-I ask the Treasurer: Was supply of money granted until 30 November as budgeted for by the Government? If that is the case, why has the Government been broke in many areas since August? 
