asked the Minister for External Affairs upon notice: 
What initiatives has Australia taken or what responses has Australia made at international level concerning the investigation of pollution and the conservation of the human environment. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Did only Portugal, Australia and the United States oppose a United Nations resolution to outlaw chemical and bacteriological weapons. 
Will he make available an alternative resolution showing those minimum changes in the United Nations' resolution which would make it acceptable to the Government. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What initiatives is Australia's delegation considering or supporting for the United Nations Charter review this year, in particular with regard to: (a) a broader United Nations membership embracing rival de facto regimes without prejudice to their respective territorial claims, (b) voting power of each delegation being assessed in some relationship to the size of the population controlled by the regime appointing the delegation and without vetoes, (c) strengthening of United Nations arbitration, conciliation and peacekeeping machinery, involving sacrifice of some aspects of national sovereignty to supranational authorities in grave international disputes, (d) peaceful uses of the sea bed, (e) extension of the Antarctic nuclear-free zone and its proclamation as a war-free zone under United Nations jurisdiction and sovereignty and (f) ecology and the development decade. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he say on 28 August 1969 in an interview for the television programme Four Corners that he did not know of any occasion since he had been in Parliament or in Cabinet when a foreign affairs statement has been taken to Cabinet or gone through Cabinet. 
Can he confirm that this is so. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for National Development. Has he admitted to the honourable member for Bradfield or admitted otherwise that the Commonwealth did not undertake a cost benefit analysis of the Kolan-Burnett-Isis scheme, but that last year's Commonwealth aid to that scheme in the Capricornia and Wide Bay electorates was necessary to assist his Party in the State and Commonwealth elections? Secondly, does he concede that such cost benefit analysis should not be left to the States, and that if the Snowy scheme had been extended to embrace a national water development programme the complete scheme should have had priority over the Ord and Nogoa schemes? Finally, in view of the landslide to Labor last year in those established and proven areas which are periodically devastated by drought will he again consider upgrading and extending the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and its work to establish priorities and a master plan to save the country from preventable losses and hardship due to drought? 
asked the Minister for 
External  Affairs, upon  notice: 
Does the Geneva Protocol on chemical and biological warfare have international force even in non-signatory states since 60 nations have ratified it, including Australia. 
What policy statements have been exchanged between Australia and theUnited Stales regarding the use of chemicals in warfare in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the total loss by fire on 30th October 1969 of a helicopter which crashed at Gladstone Airport while on a normal flight schedule to Heron Island with J  4  people on board, one of whom was treated for burns. 
How long was it before foam extinguishers reached the Airport. 
What was the estimated insurable financial loss, suffering and inconvenience resulting from this accident, including the value of photographic material lost by the Editor-in-Chief of National Geographic Magazine and damage to the tourist industry as estimated by the Public Relations Officer and officials of the Australian Tourist Commission and British Overseas Airways Corporation, who were among the passengers. 
Did the helicopter crash without igniting in a similar accident in June 1968 causing damage worth $80,000. 
What steps has the Minister's Department taken to make fire fighting equipment more promptly available at Gladstone, and what is the estimated yearly cost to (a) the Department of Civil Aviation, (b) airlines and their insurers and (c) local authorities. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Current Affairs Bulletin' of 20th October 1969, which outlines increasing Melanesian nationalism in the island of New Guinea, west and east. 
What initiatives has Australia used towards self-determination and co-operation of Melanesians and Malays in the Maphilindo and Melanesian area. 
Does Australia support any established government which suppresses popular independence movements. 
What part have communist parties played in aligning published Australian policies towards independence movements in this area. 
I propose to speak for only a few minutes on the subject of law and order particularly because in this House of recent times we have heard this ideal espoused in a way which makes it seem that the only kind of law and order that deserves respect is the one that is laid down in a book. I want to put the proposition which has not been put recently in this House, that there is a higher law. There is a duty among just men to disobey an unjust law. There is a time when this must be recognised and when it must be acted upon. Many examples have come to our attention in recent times to prove that the people of this country and of the world are waking up to this fact. Authority has been called in question not only irresponsibly, which I admit, to an increasing degree, but it has been called in question with the very highest kind of responsibility. 
Because references have been made in debate after debate in this chamber to something called the Vietnam Moratorium in particular, I want to touch on one aspect of disobedience which relates to it, namely, the question of disobedience to the National Service Act. In this country men of high courage are serving gaol sentences because they have disobeyed this law in the belief that it is unjust. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a comment in The Medical Journal of Australia of 21st February 1970 that R. E. Yoss and colleagues of the Mayo Clinic have developed a device to predict which drivers and prospective drivers are likely to be involved in traffic accidents due to proneness to falling asleep while driving. 
Will he investigate the possibility of massproduction of such a device in Australia for the protection of road and other transport users in Commonwealth Territories, the States and overseas. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor receive a letter dated 27th August 1969 from  Mr George  Romeyko of 6 Park Terrace, Kurralta Park, South Australia alleging that there are financial barriers to litigation which is one reason for his failure to appeal to the High Court. 
What remedies can be made available to  Mr Romeyko  to enable him to appeal further without financial hardship to himself or his dependants. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Has the Queensland Government raised in any way any objection to the Nimmo Committee's recommendation that public beds in Queensland, which are made available free and without means test, should attract the full amount of bed subsidy of $2 a day? If Queensland made no objection, what other possible delay can there be in implementing this recommendation of the Nimmo Committee, except some outdated or discredited view that Queensland should be penalised for- 
 The further amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  omits 3 sections of the amendment moved for the Opposition by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The first section of the Opposition's amendment that it omits is: 
affirms the right of peaceful demonstration and the right of Australian people to express opposition to the war in Vietnam, as do the great majority of governments and peoples in the world. 
That part of our amendment which the Minister has moved to omit is substantially the substance of his own amendment in which he moves:  and this House affirms the right of dissent designed to change the law and Government policy by lawful and orderly processes but condemns the concept that such dissent may be properly expressed by violent demonstrations, by attacks on persons and property, and by interference with the peaceful activities of other citizens. 
The Minister for Social Services is spelling out in a series of phrases - 'violent demonstrations', 'attacks on persons and property', and 'interference with the peaceful activities of other citizens' - what we have said in our phrase: 'the right of peaceful demonstration'. When the Minister says: 'the right of dissent designed to change the law and Government policy', he is saying exactly what we are saying when we state: 'the right of Australian people to express opposition to the war in Vietnam, as do the great majority of governments and peoples in the world'. So I think we can say that, substantially, the Opposition is very happy with the statement in the amendment moved by the Minister. 
But we are not happy with the fact that the Minister wants to omit 2 other sections of our amendment. The second section reads: 
supports efforts by the United States Government to achieve disengagement from the war. 
Are we to take it, then, that the Minister wants not to support efforts by the United States Government to achieve disengagement from the war? Through his speech, he made no mention either for or against disengagement. I submit that any honourable member who accepts the amendment moved by the Minister is saying: 'I do not want to pass in this House a motion that we support the efforts of the United States Government to achieve disengagement from the war.' What is more, the Minister also in effect is removing the third section of the amendment moved by the Opposition which says: 
declares this disengagement to be an urgent need of humanity. 
There was no note of urgency about disengagement. In fact, there was no note about disengagement in the Minister's speech.  His  whole speech was completely in line with statements made by him in this House in the past. I do not propose to go through the history of his co-operation and unity with Communists. He told us that he has now found out what the Communists are up to and that he does not do that sort of thing any more. It is we of the Opposition who have found out what the Communists are up to. However, the Minister for Social Services speaks in line with a very fine tradition which has been strongly enforced in his family, even to the extent that third and fourth generations of the family use the same christian names as well as the same surname. I quote from what was said by  Sir Henry  Parkes: 

 Mr Wentworth exhausted his great powers of invective in denouncing the new party of reformers as Socialists, Communists, uprooters of law and order and everything else for which a vile name can be found though it included many of the most respectable men in the country. I was myself at that early stage of my public life denounced by him from his place in the Legislative Council as the arch anarchist. 
That tradition has been well and truly followed and served this evening. 
That was about 1840. The quotation is from a book by  Sir Henry  Parkes entitled 'Fifty Years of Australian History* which was published in 1892. The quotation appears at page 25. Referring now to the question of association, we have been told not only by the Minister for Social Services but by many others tonight that the Communist Party is a proscribed organisation, that no member of the Australian Labor Party is allowed to belong to it. I would like to ask the Minister whether he knows that we have proscribed the Liberal Party? No member of this Party is allowed to join the Liberal Party. I could list quite a number of respectable organisations that are proscribed to members of the Australian Labor Party. 
But let me point out.  Sir, that  ours is not the only Party which stands united in principle with the Communist Party. The Minister for Social Services has done this. He did it in respect of the referendum to give rights to Aboriginals. We commend him for doing that. We say that it is the right thing to do. When the Communist Party does the right thing it is up to us to stand with it and support it as it supports us. The Labor Party adopted this united front on the question of the rights of Aboriginals. It is a united front that we adopt with Communists over the Vietnam question. Of course, when a united front is adopted about Aboriginals it is all right but if we adopt a united front over Vietnam we are, it is said, being duped. It is said that we do not understand that we are being led by the nose. Of course, the Communists were not leading the Minister by the nose over the question of Aboriginal affairs because he really was leading the Communists by the nose. He subverted the Communist Party, as we heard the other night, but I will not go into that. 
Another little story brought forth by the Minister was to the effect that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  wants mob rule. The Minister said that mob rule is minority rule. Nowhere in the statements of the honourable member for Lalor have I found anything to indicate that he wants anybody to rule anything in the streets of Melbourne. He has told the people to whom he has appealed that he wants them to take over an area for a period. This is in contrast to activities that have taken place in those areas at other times. He has said that because, to us, this is a more important issue than buying and selling wheat, wool and other things for which the streets of Melbourne have been taken over. 
It is the blood of our young people that is being shed in Vietnam. There is also the blood of innocent people on our hands. As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  told us so ably this evening, we are the allies of the chief nation that has broken the Vietnam Accords, that has disrupted the peace in Vietnam and that has started the aggression from our side, as the International Control Commission report told us - and I am quoting from what was said in the American Senate. Yet we are told that we are supporting mob rule; that we are supporting a minority. I would remind the House that back in April 1969 a gallup poll was taken on the Vietnam issue. We know that such polls involve a little bit of crystal gazing and cannot entirely be relied upon. However that poll was the best gauge we had at that time as to what the majority thought about Vietnam. If honourable members look at the figures for the gallup polls of May 1967, 
February and December 1968, and April 1969 they will see a convergence of the figures for those who say that we should continue to fight in Vietnam and those who say that we should withdraw our troops. The question put to the people at that poll was: 
Do you favour continuation of fighting in Vietnam by Australian troops or do you favour withdrawing them? 
That is much the same as what the Vietnam Moratorium is asking. The results of the 4 gallup polls conducted show that there has been a steady decline in the percentage of the population favouring continuation of the. fight. The figure has fallen from 62% to 48%. Honourable members will notice that that latter figure represents a minority. On the other hand the percentage favouring withdrawal of the troops has risen from 24% to 40%. It was apparent that about mid October - honourable members will remember that the Government decided to have an early election in that month - the figures would be reversing if that trend continued. In fact 2 weeks before the last Federal election 55% of Australians were in favour of withdrawing our troops. So much for the Minister's statement that this is minority rule. Let him produce some more reliable measure, if he can, to show what the majority of people think. We know that the last election for this House returned a Government majority only on second preference votes. We know that the Government's re-election was not a mandate for it so far as its Vietnam policy is concerned. We know that the Gallup polls show that the people were not in favour of the Government's Vietnam policy before the election. 
The Minister for Social Services said that we of the Opposition were being brainwashed. Well, he did his best but I submit that we are not brain-washed yet. He spoke about a Communist reign of terror in the pre-selection of Labor members of Parliament. I experienced this reign of terror in my own preselection. A record number of 8,000 people voted in the plebiscite of Australian Labor Party members and I had an absolute majority over 8 candidates. I ask the House to remember that none of those Australian Labor Party members are allowed to be members of the proscribed Communist Party or Liberal 
Party. Of the affiliated unionists, a small percentage of those who voted in that plebiscite belonged to unions which had Communists on their executives. But every one of them was bound to state when be voted that he was not a member of any other party. Nearly everybody who voted in that plebiscite knew what my stand was on the Vietnam issue. 
The honourable member for Lilley was very helpful to me because he produced a document which purported to show that I supported the Communist Party but in fact it showed the opposite. 
The prize Press comment on that event is still the subject of litigation and I cannot go into it. 
The point is that I have never before or since my election refrained from associating with Communists - as the Minister has done - when I have believed that the cause was just. From the outset my stand in Vietnam has been consistent. Just before the last election the issue was raised again. On one occasion I arranged a debate on Vietnam on behalf of my predecessor in the seat of Capricornia, the late George Gray. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  as he then was, agreed to oppose me in that debate, which was held just before an election. That was the first time a public debate was held on Vietnam immediately prior to an election. My predecessor was returned at the election with a handsome majority. 
Shortly before the last general election a challenge was thrown out by a young gentleman who opposed me in the election. He was a major who had returned from Vietnam full of zeal to expound the Government's policy on Vietnam. He was a very able  speaker,  so they told me. He challenged anybody to debate the subject with him at any time, so of course we had a public debate in the streets of his and my home town. I was returned with the biggest swing ever achieved by any candidate in Queensland. So let us have no more of this clap-trap that we on this side are being terrorised by the Communists to support their policy on Vietnam. The Minister for Social Services asked why the Labor Party did not oppose the enemy. I ask: Why did you not set up a save-Tibet committee? How many troops have we sent to Tibet? The Minister said that the Labor Party has not spoken up for the people of Czechoslovakia and other places who are the victims of Communist aggression. Perhaps one occasion has slipped the Minister's memory. I refer to the occasion when every member in this House voted as one to condemn Russia for walking into Czechoslovakia. 
Some rode. We condemned Russia as a body. We have condemned aggression wherever we have  seen  it. We do not condone warfare by any side. I reiterate what the honourable member for St George said tonight: According to the only reliable report put out by the American Government the International Control Commission places the primary responsibility for the war in Vietnam not on North Vietnam or South Vietnam but on the United States of America for its interference and its failure to abide by the Geneva Accords. It is this policy of America that has led to the state of the war as we see it today - a war that will be settled only when we retreat to those same Geneva Accords because they represent the only basis on which a settlement will be reached without obliterating all the people there. 
I must get back to the matter of breaking the law. We were told that a massacre took place at Hue. Of course it did. There was saturation bombing of Hue. Great mass graves were discovered there. But no postmortems were conducted on the thousands of people who were buried in Hue. 
Did they all have bullets in their backs? We cannot say the same for most of the other casualties in Vietnam. Nobody has managed to ascertain whether most of the civilians killed in Vietnam were shot in the back or in the front or who was responsible. I submit most of the casualities in Hue occurred when that very ancient cultural city was obliterated by a hail of explosives. 
From the only people who had bombers there - the Americans. 
The honourable member for La Trobe dismisses this as a typical Labor approach because he believes that these people were killed in some other way. He believes that the Communist snipers and infiltrators who held the fortress for a time systematically killed all these people. If this is so how is it that after all these years and after so many bombs have been rained on Vietnam - a bigger tonnage than was rained on the Axis powers in World War II; when half the countryside looks like a landscape of the moon, according to various journalists - they are still fighting? Where are they getting all the bodies with which to fight if they are killing everybody with whom they come in contact? The international laws have been broken by America. The laws of humanity have been broken by this Government in its conscription law. This Government has disregarded the appeal of the Pope in Vatican II when he asked people to lay down their arms - mutiny if you like - if they were told to disobey international law. The Government has acted contrary to the appeals of U Thant who has said that America's actions in Vietnam amount to a breaking of international law. You will see statements such as those not only in Communist newspapers but also in such radical journals as 'Muster', the journal of the Graziers Association of New South Wales. 'Muster' quotes from the American magazine 'Newsweek', which has been referred to quite a bit this evening. Those publications show that not only in Australia but also in America the vast tide of public opinion is turning against the Government's persistence in the war. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (MackellarMinister for Social Services) -  Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Shipping and Transport on 18th July 1969 say that Australia's survival as an exporter depended on forward planning in the rural, mining and manufacturing sectors of lbc economy. 
If so, what guidelines has the Government laid down for such planning. 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has said that in Australia patients can obtain a bed almost at will at any level at which they desire. I have not tried to get any beds in Sydney lately but it is not many years since I was in practice there and it was quite a common procedure in the western suburbs where I was practising that when a patient had acute appendicitis we bad to ring the 3 nearest hospitals and if, as happened 3 times out of 4, they had no beds available we then had to ring up the hospitals admission officer who was on duty day and night in the city of Sydney. This man would say: T can get you a bed at such and such a hospital'. It usually happened to be a hospital about an hour's drive by ambulance - the Prince Henry Hospital or the Royal North Shore Hospital. The result, of course, was that patients went completely out of the ken of the doctor who had been looking after them whenever they had to be admitted to hospital. These were acute patients in immediate need of beds. It was not many years before that time that I heard of a patient who had to be flown to Newcastle to have his appendix out. 
I do not know what the position is in other States. However, I do know that in Queensland the one State that does have the Australian Labor Party system of hospital beds, with public beds available to everybody without having to undergo a means test, there is no shortage of such beds. The Minister has made much of saying that when the Labor Party's scheme conies in there will be a longer wait for beds. This has caught him out in the lie direct. There is no such thing as waiting for a bed in the one State which has implemented the Labor Party scheme to make available free beds to those who want them. In fact the figures for the number of available beds show that Queensland has more per head of population than all the other States. All this talk about comparing the United Kingdom has nothing to do with our policy or with Government policy. It is a red herring. The Government is very fond of accusing the Labor Party of dragging in red herrings by comparing with a scheme in Canada or some other country any aspect of the health scheme. This is the one aspect which we are discussing today and it is one on which the Minister's argument falls down. With regard to the attitude of the people of the United Kingdom to their health scheme - I am not saying that complacent people are always correct - they are fairly satisfied over there, according to gallup polls, while only a minority are satisfied in this country. In the national opinion polls questions were put to the people in the United Kingdom between 10th and 15th 
December of last year and . 78% of the people were satisfied with' the national health service as it then Was, 
The Minister said also that there had been no building of hospitals in the United Kingdom over the last 20 years until the last couple of years. As a . matter of fact the extensive building programme goes back 5 or 6 years and it is increasing; it is increasing under a Labour government. The hospitals were allowed, to stagnate and run down at a time when there was economic neglect on the part of the preceding government. So this is bo argument against the British health scheme. The Minister has said that a largely tax financed system must bring us to a condition like the United Kingdom, and yet I have demonstrated that this is completely denied by the experience of Queensland. The Minister seems to think that when he has considered the Nimmo proposals and come up with his remedies they will fix everything. He said that the Government scheme will be equally as attractive for hospitals as is the Labor scheme. That is all very nice to say as a sweeping statement, but the Nimmo Committee concerned itself purely with costs and finance. As the honourable member for Maribyrnong has just told us, this is not health; finance is not health; insurance is not health and government is not health. We need a little more than what the Nimmo report can give us if we are to have adequate hospital and health care in this country. 
In answer to a question I put to the Minister yesterday he said: ' 
It would be utterly irresponsible of the Government to make a decision in respect of one of those recommendations without making a decision in relation to all of them. Therefore the Government will wait until consultations wilh the Stales have been completed. .... 
In other words the Government cannot improve the hospital benefits scheme until it has improved the health scheme altogether. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  accused the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  of wanting to bring in all these things together. He says that this is impracticable. The Minister said during question time yesterday that it was irresponsible to bring in proposals in bits and pieces. Who is correct? Who expresses Government policy? As  a  'matter of fact the Minister himself is quite wrong because he has already brought in part of the Nimmo Committee proposals. It is quite practicable to implement, the proposal of the Nimmo Report which says that Queensland should cease to have placed on it the penalty of having only an 80c subsidy per bed for people who are not insured for treatment in Queensland hospitals. The Nimmo Report states, that Queensland should have the same $2 subsidy as every State has. This proposal can be implemented now without any irresponsibility on the part of the Government. Indeed it is irresponsible not to implement it. It is irresponsible to continue to penalise Queensland at the rate of a couple of million dollars a year for something that is based purely on a Liberal philosophy because Queensland does not put a means test on the people who go into public beds, and because a patient does not choose to insure himself against public bed care for which he will not be charged anyway. Yet the Government continues to penalise and it says that this is a responsible attitude. 
The Minister said that the States have to consider the Nimmo proposals among themselves before the council of Health Ministers can act any further on this scheme. I would like to ask the Minister whether the State Health Ministers met on this. We have had the Nimmo Report for a good many months now. Recently we had a Federal election. I would like to know when the Minister met with these State Health Ministers. My information is that he did not meet with them until this month and that in fact they were waiting on his Director-General to call them together. This is the information that I received from an official of one of the State governments. Did it ever occur to the Minister that the State Health Ministers would not confer and bring matters to him white they were waiting for him to convene this conference and that they had not got together? According to this official they had not got together before they met with officials of the Minister's own Department. 
I want to deal with a few specific matters of specific types of hospital neglect. I want to put it that the Minister himself has said:  lt does seem inevitable that medical services will become more and more hospital centred. 
That comment was reported in the 'Australian' of 18th March 1969. The Minister was addressing a meeting of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. A former Liberal member who was one of the most outspoken opponents of what he himself called socialisation of medicine and nationalisation of medicine is not here now because he seemed to be a little bit extreme in his views. I am speaking of the former honourable member for Bowman,  Dr Wylie  Gibbs, who said repeatedly that we need a central control and planning of hospitals. He took fine care to say that he did not want medicine to be socialised or nationalised but he said that there must be a central planning commission. This is Labor's policy. In some weird way the honourable member believed that there was no socialisation in his scheme. He is reported in the 'Australian' on 12th September 1968 as asking for this scheme, and he spoke on 6th November 1968 in this House along the same lines. He has espoused what we have espoused to meet the needs of hospitals. I spoke about this on 22nd August 1968. 
We see complaints almost weekly in our newspapers about delays in the outpatients department of hospitals. On the 2nd of this month the 'Age' reported: 'Hospital Crisis; Patients Sent Away.' On the 8th of this month the 'Sydney Morning Herald' has this report: 'Nurses Criticised Living Quarters.' We have heard recently talks of a strike and nurses refusing to do anything except nursing duties. But the Minister says it is not a criSiS, that things are all hunky-dory. I could also mention the care that is given to old people and the mentaly ill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What steps has the Government taken to correct the deficiency of child care centres for working mothers. 
Is he able to say whether only 2 employers in Australia provide all-day care in these centres. 
Will he initiate discussions with other Ministers to see that Commonwealth employees are adequately catered for in this regard. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What stage have negotiations reached regarding a reciprocal agreement on social services for migrants between Malta and Australia. 
What are the principal obstacles or points of contention which would render such an agreement less obtainable than similar agreements reached with other Commonwealth countries. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. I note that he stated that the waiting time for beds is much greater in the United Kingdom, presumably because the beds are financed by taxation, and I ask him: Does he claim that a shortage of bed space causes a lower standard of efficiency in hospitals? Does the result of treatment provided in a hospital give a bettor measure of the efficiency and standards of hospitals? If he is unaware of the comparative results of hospital treatment in this and other countries, on what scientific data does he base this claim? 
asked the Minister for 
National Development the following question, on notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by the Western Australian Minister for Industrial Development on 16th March that the Federal 
Government actively discourages Australian ownership of mineral industries, that the Commonwealth should provide ports, roads and housing to correct this trend, and should thus enter a development partnership with industry, as States and local capital cannot afford to do so, and that dredging and port housing costs of companies should at least be tax deductible. 
If so, can he refute the allegation that the Government actively discourages Australian ownership of mineral industries. 
If he cannot refute this allegation, will the Government take the steps proposed by the Western Australian Minister to encourage Australian ownership. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do the members of the National Health and Medical Research Council's sub-committee on Aboriginal health include an ethnopsychiatrist and a social worker. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has he any estimates of the annual economic benefits to Australia from scientific research financed by the Commonwealth. 
What is the Commonwealth's annual expenditure on research. 
What comparable figures has he for comparable countries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in The Australian of 17 March 1970 that Australian scientists recommend that (a) research funds should be given especially by herbicide manufacturers and by governments to help academic institutions to assess soil pollution by herbicides, (b) manufacturers should print on containers the minimum amount of herbicides needed for various soils and their sale and use should be controlled by law and (c) soil weight testing should bc provided for farmers. 
If so, what action has the Government taken towards these aims. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say whether airborne gas attacks have been used to flush troops from shelter prior to antipersonnel bombing in Vietnam. 
asked the Min:ster for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What opportunities has the Government taken to promote co-operation between countries in the Maphilindo and Melanesian areas. 
asked the  Minister  for Health, upon notice: 
Can he say whether student nurses receive less remuneration and carry more responsibility than unqualified nursing aides of the same age. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice:  ls he able to provide any reports of long-term plant, animal and human ecology studies of the effects of chemicals used in the Vietnam war. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of providing a 50 per cent subsidy towards the cost of providing 
new and (b) upgraded telephone connections in each of the next 3 years. 
What is the total number of subscribers' telephone lines in Australia. ^ 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does he support the principles of the Australian Parliamentary Group for World Government namely, that unbridled national sovereignty is an essential factor in war and that governments should give a lead in fostering the rule of law at world level. 
Will he make an early announcement on Australia's attitude to the proposed United Nations Charter reforms to be considered this year, including modification of the veto and other moves towards democratic control of international causes of war. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What reasons did Australia give for abstaining from voting in favour of considering suggestions for review of the United Nations Charter in the Sixth Committee of the 24th General Assembly. 
Did 52 nations, including Yugoslavia, support the motion and all other Communist countries oppose it. 
Does Australia support moves by Japan and Italy to have repealed Charter provisions allowing members to act against them as enemies without United Nations sanction. 
Has Australia (a) supported or (b) opposed (i) the view of Japan and others in the First Committee that the voting system and veto are outdated, (ii) the Philippines view that a fundamental review of structure, powers and procedure should proceed, (iii) the call of Ceylon and others for a review conference as provided for in Article 109, (iv) the criticisms by Guinea of the selfdefeating, self-imposed restrictions of the United Nations Organisation and (v) the allegation of Trinidad and Tobago that the great powers are using such restrictions to retain their veto and other advantages. 
How did Australia respond to (a) Colombia's resolution to refer the matter of Charter review to the Sixth Committee which was supported by seventy-four nations and (b) the Assembly acceptance of the item for next year's agenda supported by sixty-nine nations. 
Did Australia support (a) the view of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and France that there would be unavoidable complexities which could mean weakening the Charter, (b) the United States' view that decisions should not be hasty or (c) Brazil's view that the fullest deliberations are overdue. 
Will the Government consider calling for public suggestions for review of the Charter and inform the public of (a) the main relevant issues raised in the General Assembly, (b) where copies of the Charter can be obtained and (c) the price of a copy of the Charter. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government acknowledged the principle  of  international law recognised  in  the judgment of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg that individuals have international duties which transcend the national obligations of obedience imposed by an individual state. 
Will the Government review the law which punishes those who refuse to be conscripted because they claim that their participation in the Viet-Nam war involves them in war crimes as defined by Article 6(b) of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal being, inter alia, unjust war, ill-treatment of prisoners of war, wanton destruction of cities, towns and villages, and devastation not justified by military necessity. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the commoner surgical and obstetric procedures performed usually by general practitioners in many parts of Australia attract higher rebates when performed by specialists after referral from other specialists, even when there has been no consultation with the patient's personal physician. 
If so, will this tend to accelerate the relative decay of general practice and needlessly inflate the cost of the national health service. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a comment in The Medical Journal of Australia of 21st February 1970 that cigarette smoking is regrettably common and the chief avoidable cause of premature death from coronary disease and chronic bronchial and lung diseases, including bronchitis and cancer, and that this has been confirmed by similar disorders produced, in proportion to numbers of cigarettes smoked, in dogs trained to smoke them and given varying rations of cigarettes. 
How long is it since his predecessors were first advised to seek restriction of tobacco advertising. 
What advertising restrictions have been adopted, when and by whom were they adopted, and to what extent was advertising restricted in each case. 
What other steps has he taken to expedite discouragement or detoxification of this greatest preventable cause of non-violent deaths. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the San Francisco Chronicle of 31st March 1969, quoting  Major Borgman  of the Special Forces Fifth Mobile Strike Force as saying, he and others attacked human beings with white phosphorus and napalm shells. 
Has he any evidence to confirm or deny that napalm or white phosphorus is used as an antipersonnel chemical by allied forces. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a medical report quoted by Professor J. B. Nielands of the Chair of Bio-chemistry, University of California, that, in Vietnam, about 10% of adults and 90% of children who are flushed out of tunnels, bunkers or shelters by gas cylinders and who survive to reach medical care, die. 
If so, has he any information which would confirm or deny the figures. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
ls the atmospheric concentration of carbon monoxide produced by napalm combustion higher than that produced by other military incendiary substances. 
Is he able to say whether the concentration of carbon monoxide is comparable to concentrations produced in vehicle exhaust gases by an equal weight of motor fuel. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say if Operation Ranch Hand involved aerial spraying over 5 million acres of Vietnam up to 1968, including over 600,000 acres of crops using over $163m worth of herbicides. 
Can he say what acreages and amounts of herbicide have since been similarly sprayed. 
Can he say whether the entire United States' production in 1967 and 1968 of some 14 million pounds of the defoliant or weedkiller 2,4,5-T was bought by the United States Department of Defence. 
Is this quantity of herbicides enough to kill 97% of above-ground vegetation over 10 million acres. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he stated or implied in a reply to  Dr Ham  of Adelaide that his Department cannot condemn out of hand the use of multiple dose syringes for humans. 
Will he amend this statement in the light of the Coroner's findings in the Geelong disaster referred to in The Medical Journal of Australia  of  28th February 1970. 
a.m.] - I rise in response to some outworn and repeated material that has been brought up on the subject of the Moratorium. I wish to start with the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who said at. the beginning of his speech that attached to the Moratorium movement and particularly in the Australian Labor Party here are people who claim the right to break any law that they dislike and to incite other people to do likewise. That is not the fact. To my knowledge, nobody in this Party or in the Moratorium movement has ever made any public statement to the effect that anybody has the right to break any law he dislikes. 
The point that 1 made in my last speech in an adjournment debate, which was not very long ago, was that just men have the duty to break an unjust law when that is the only way to get that unjust law changed and particularly when breaking that law does less harm than the law itself is doing. There are several laws to which that applies in connection with the Moratorium. I went into them in detail in that speech, which the honourable member can look up very easily. The laws that 1 stressed were, firstly, the National Service Act which requires a man, whether it is against his conscience or not, to take up arms and, in fact, to swear loyalty to something which he believes is totally evil, against all the laws of humanity and against all international law. The war in Vietnam has been fought from the side of Australia and her allies in repudiation and in violation of the United Nations Charter, the Nuremberg principles and the Geneva 
Accords. What is more, the International Control Commission, which is the only impartial body that has studied and made public statements on the matter, has found, as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  also has detailed in a speech to this House, that the graver breaches of the Geneva Accords were made first by the South Vietnamese and American forces and not by the forces of North Vietnam and the Vietcong. 
We have heard, of course, the interjection that this is a terrible distortion of the facts, but the honourable member for St George was simply quoting reports of the International Control Commission. In the course of pointing out these facts from the International Control Commission the honourable member for St George also made it clear that Ministers of the Australian Federal Government had been guilty of distortion of the facts in their quoting of the International Control Commission reports by selecting from those reports the parts that suited their case and ignoring the parts which the honourable member for St George then put alongside them. If that is distortion of the facts, let us have more of it, because with all the facts one cannot distort. 
There are plenty of precedents right through history for the breaking of unjust laws in the cause of a higher law. I am going to refer to another one besides the international law I have mentioned. I refer to the documents of Vatican II and if any of the honourable gentlemen opposite wish to say that I am distorting the facts I will be happy to show them the full volume of the documents of Vatican II. Under the heading 'The Church Today' these documents say that governments must improve and not only observe the laws on the treatment of prisoners of war. I have repeatedly put questions to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and every Minister who has any say on this matter, but they have repeatedly refused to make any statement or express any opinion as to whether our allies in Vietnam have broken the laws concerning the treatment of prisoners of war. They say that it is not their pigeon and they cannot vouch for the reports that I have quoted to them. They could not care less because they go on supporting these allies. 
The documents of Vatican II say that governments have a responsibility to give the right of alternative service to any person who cannot in conscience take part in a war. Not one member opposite supported the Opposition's move to have such an amendment made to the National Service Act. They all voted against that amendment where we specifically asked for the very thing that Vatican II asked for - a civil alternative to military service on conscientious grounds. These are the laws we object to. These are the unjust laws. Honourable members on the Government side bring up some quibble about somebody who sits down in a street for a couple of hours and might block a bit of traffic. Yet they are breaking the most sacred rules of human nature, the laws of any religion which one might like to espouse, and of the religion to which I imagine some of them pay lip service because I can hear the whispers on that side of the House when the prayers are read every day in this House. The founder of that religion - I am referring to the Christian religion - was himself indicted for breaking laws and he paid the penalty. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said in this House he is prepared to pay the penalty for breaking the unjust laws of this country. A lot of us have said this. We fixed our names to a statement in defiance of the National Service Act. We have not yet been shoved into gaol or fined for doing this. We have asked young men to do the same; that is, young men who are asked against their conscience to take part in an unjust war. 
The honourable member for Maranoa said the Australian Workers' Union did not mention the Moratorium Campaign. Yet he quotes the AWU at great length as proof that it opposes the Campaign. He quoted the AWU as saying:  'Communism  is the most totalitarian system that exists in the world'. He did not mention all sorts of right wing governments which are equally totalitarian, equally oppressive and equally intolerant of their oppositions and, in fact, of religious opposition. These governments put people who disagree with them publicly in goal, or worse. The honourable member for Latrobe  (Mr Jess)  said that if we are sincere, if we are genuine, we will occasionally say that perhaps some of the fault is on the other side and mat perhaps some of the right is on the side of those fighting the Communists. I have said that in this House. Many of us have said that. Tonight I repeated what I said a week or two ago in the adjournment debate that there are faults on the other side. I said that the faults were earlier and bigger on the side of our allies, that the people who started the war in Vietnam, the war that is going on now, comprised the Saigon puppet regime which America set up and later murdered off. They are the people who started the fighting. The rebels were rebelling against an intolerable totalitarian regime equally as oppressive as that in North Vietnam. This is in all the history books if one likes to read about that stage of history. Will the honourable member for Latrobe, just once, say in this House that perhaps there is some times a bit of right on the other side and that sometimes there is a bit of wrong on his side? Because if we have to say that to be genuine and sincere, so has he. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is he able to say  what  is the latest estimated annual cost to Australian governments of port, road and rail facilities and housing for petroleum, coal and metal mining and processing industries and those engaged in providing facilities for these industries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Do allied forces in Vietnam use gases known as CN, CS and DM, respectively. 
Is life endangered by the military use of CS or DM gas. 
What gases have been held responsible for any deaths of (a) Australian servicemen wearing gas masks and (b) other persons in Vietnam, and in what estimated numbers. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the twentieth report (November J 969) from the Commission to Study the Organisation of Peace, of 866 United Nations Plaza, New York. 
If so, does this report, entitled The United Nations: The Next Twenty-five years, propose a draft declaration by all members to the effect that they will take steps to - 
accelerate, the development of world legislation applicable to States and persons; 
strengthen means of peaceful settlement of disputes; 
strengthen the United Nations so that all States will feel secure, and disarm States so that no State wm be able to challenge the United Nations' peace-keeping authority; 
improve world living standards and promote economic, social and cultural progress and terms of trade;  promote self-determination of peoples;  provide adequately independent United Nations financial resources; communications, information and education to promote a world point of view; increase the universality of membership and effectiveness of the United Nations. (3) Has this report been considered; if so, is the Government in agreement with the proposals in the draft declaration and has any action been taken towards their implementation. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Have any approaches been made to the Commonwealth Government by persons in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, South Vietnam, the Philippines, South Korea or Taiwan or in communist countries for diplomatic, military or other help in defence of their democratic rights; if so, willi what result. 
If approaches have been made, can he say whether the Governments of any of these countries, and which, have restricted democratic freedoms of political opponents not engaged in armed rebellion. 
Have such restrictions, in each case, tended to deprive the respective peoples of their exercise of the principle of self-determination. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
What is the change in the projected price of water per acre foot to farmers as a result of the $ 12.8m grant to Queensland for the BurnettKolanIsis scheme. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to recent press reports that United States authorities in 
Saigon were informed freely of communist contacts of an opposition Member who has since been sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for contacting communists. 
Is the Government's professed military aim in Vietnam to foster democratic processes. 
In the 1967 by-election which brought me to this House the then Prime Minister's wife,  Mrs Zara  Holt, said in my home town: 'Queenslanders have a wonderful potential but they will not wake up to it and sometimes I feel like shaking them'. One of the Government speakers who preceded me in this debate said that Queensland is a sleeping giant. I suggest that it is not for want of asking that Queensland has been kept asleep for so long. It is noi because the people in that State do not realise the potential up there, but you cannot pull yourself up by the bootstraps. This project will benefit Australia as a whole and not just Queensland. Queensland was left pretty much at the end of the queue for this type of development and it is the only State which has up to this time nol had any assistance from the Commonwealth for power development. We might be a 
Gulliver but we are not gullible. On 24th October 1968, not 18 months ago, the then Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  assured me that there were no figures available on the shipments from Gladstone and there were no figures available on the relative prices of bauxite or coal or power or freights; these were confidential to the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. Yet he could give me in the same answer what it cost New Zealand to produce electricity which was then extracting aluminium from Queensland bauxite. He said that the cost in New Zealand was 0.02c. In Tasmania the cost was 0.05c. 
Referring to the Capricornia Regional Electricity Board which at the moment supplies the electricity for Gladstone, he said that the average industrial cost per unit per kilowatt hour was 1.2c to 30th June 1968, but the actual rates charged to any one of these industries in Gladstone was a matter of confidential agreement between the Board and the industries. He also said that the means used to raise loan money for development funds by the State or by this Regional Board were purely a State matter. What a turnabout this Bill is. lt was, according to the Minister not 18 months ago, purely a State matter. The Commonwealth would not come into it. We protested vigorously about this at the byelection, as we have at every election since. Queensland did not take this lying down. At the last Federal election the campaign in Capricornia was fought largely on this issue, and one of the results was this promise, just before the election, of up to $80m for Queensland at 6.4% interest, provided Queensland would be able to show that it would attract export industry. Apparently Dame Zara was way ahead of her late husband's successor because she was already well convinced. She thought that it was Queensland holding up development and not the Government of which her then husband was the leader. 
However, by 14th April this year the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was still not convinced. It seems he has taken this long to draw up this 4-page agreement - not greatly different from other agreements for capital projects - which forms a schedule to the Bill. He promises nothing until the State can guarantee contracts to buy more than half the power to be produced. He wants 2 bob each way. He is a bit like the banks when you go for an overdraft these days. They want your mortgage to guarantee up to the hilt a little bit more than the amount of the overdraft and they want all your insurance policies to make sure they can pay for it by immediately cashing in the insurance policies if the bottom falls out of the housing market. Just to be sure they will like a guarantee from your grandfather so that he will have to pay if you cannot. This is the sort of agreement that is offered to Queensland. We cannot knock it. We cannot reject it. It is there ready for signature. There is no way we can amend it here in this Parliament to make it more equitable. We either take it as it is or leave it. Therefore we have to vote for the Bill. It is the best that we can get. 
The State has to carry half the cost of building this project before any return is obtained. It has to find half of that cost from whatever loan sharks it can persuade to lend the money. It has to pay back every cent of the other half with this interest. Admittedly the rate has been watered down a bit because we protested. When the Prime Minister made this statement we protested that it was an unreasonable rate of interest. The Commonwealth proposes to lend the taxpayers' money - money from all the taxpayers in Australia - back to the taxpayers of Queensland and make them pay interest on it again. That is just about double what is being loaned to them. Queensland has to take all of the risks. The Commonwealth will not be in it until the State has a guarantee of customers to buy the power. The Commonwealth gets all the interest and all the revenue from the income tax that will be created by these new industries. The State will not get any taxes out of them. It is Australia as a whole which will benefit financially from this investment. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said that this investment is not to benefit the electorate of Capricornia, the town of Gladstone or the State of Queensland; it is to help Australia's balance of payments. Queensland already carries more than its share of this task. Although New South Wales and Victoria have a debit balance of payments, Queensland has a credit balance, notwithstanding that the people of Queensland have a lower standard of living and a lower average potential income than the people of New South Wales and Victoria. The people of Queensland also get a worse deal by way of development capital from the Commonwealth than do the people of New South Wales and Victoria. 
The Commonwealth commits itself to not one cent for the increasingly urgent needs of this area. Not one cent comes from the Commonwealth for harbour development in the fast growing town of Gladstone. It must find finance for harbour development from harbour dues, which fortunately arc very reasonable because of the large tonnages of bulk cargoes being shipped through the port. These are equal to the tonnages being shipped through Brisbane and other ports of Queensland combined. We had to put forward a very strong case before the Commonwealth would build an incinerator in Gladstone, and this is a Commonwealth quarantine responsibility. There is still in Gladstone no adequate control of venereal disease, a matter which I have brought to the attention of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  This is a Commonwealth responsibility and a matter for concern in this growing port. The control of venereal disease is left to State and local authorities, which have limited facilities for this purpose. 
The Commonwealth has committed not one cent for road and rail facilities which are part and parcel of these new industries. The Minister for National Development referred in his rambling summary to beef roads, but these have nothing to do with the new industries which the power station will bring to Queensland. Not a cent is to come from the Commonwealth for the housing that will be required in the vicinity of these new industries. The industries which will benefit from the new power station - the alumina industry and its subsidiaries - have done nothing to improve the housing situation. It has been left to the employees to find places on which to park their caravans. Housing has been left to the private development firms which are there to make a profit out of the people who cannot provide their own housing. The Commonwealth has provided not one cent for housing, schools or hospitals, all of which ate run down and inadequate in this area. 
Not 1 cent has been provided for parks and other amenities. These things have been left to local and State authorities. We get sick and tired of hearing about these shortcomings on the part of the Commonwealth. Not 1 cent has been provided for water, sewerage and drainage works, which are completely choked in the area. The local authority has been swamped by the rapid growth of industry in Gladstone. There is no way in which it can catch up in the time required to develop the new power station. The Commonwealth has provided not 1 cent to overcome the growing pollution problems, and there has been bitter complaint about air pollution and the large numbers of midges in the area. Midge control is left to some amateur organisation - some scientist who has taken the initiative to get rid of the biting midges or sand Hies that abound in the growing residential area of Gladstone. Not 1 cent has been provided by the Commonwealth for the conservation of marine life, which will be menaced by the effluvia from these new industries. The water supply had to be augmented by the alumina works so that it could hold a work force in the town and so that it might have enough water to run the works. But what of the extra water that will be required when there is an alkali works there producing caustic soda and when we have, as we have been told we will have, the biggest aluminium extraction plant in the world? After all this neglect we are supposed to acclaim the Government for coming forward magnanimously in the role of usurer and demanding its pound of flesh before it pays anything. 
Let us examine the statements made today by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Like the Minister for National Development, the honourable member said that it is all a matter of balance of payments: To earn export income we must have an inflow of capital. Let us see how much export income these industries will earn for Australia. In a speech delivered on 10th April this year to the West Australian Chamber of Manufacturers the Prime Minister referred to the percentage of foreign ownership in Australian industries. In the case of the motor vehicle industry, 90% is foreign owned. In the case of the chemicals industry, which is one of the major industries coming to Gladstone, 75% is foreign owned. More than 50% of the electrical and electronics industry is owned and controlled by overseas capital. The alumina and aluminium industry, based on deposits of bauxite which may be the largest in the world and which is the key to Gladstone's future economic development, is almost 100% in the hands of overseas capital. If the industry is owned 100% by overseas interests obviously 100% of profits go overseas. How, then, can such an industry increase our export earnings? How does Australia benefit if all the investment is in the hands of overseas interests? The Prime Minister knows the answer. He said: 'You and I are 50% partners in all these enterprises because of the company tax that you and I collect'. That would be all right if we collected any company tax but 3 companies have first opportunity to buy the alumina that is produced in Gladstone. They are the 3 companies that own the alumina works and would you believe that the price they set for selling this alumina to themselves is the cost of production. They do not make any profit. They are doing this out of the goodness of their hearts - producing alumina at no profit, all for the benefit of Australia. The people of Gladstone should thank them humbly for not taking any profit out of the town. As a result of all this no company tax is paid and 50% of nothing is nothing. It is that 50% to which the Prime Minister referred when he said: 'You and I are 50% partners in all these enterprises'. 
Let us examine the Prime Minister's speech to see the trends. Firms with fewer than 50 employees are 26% owned by overseas capital. Firms with more than 50 employees are 34% owned by overseas capital. Firms with more than 100 employees are 37% owned by overseas capital and firms with more than 500 employees are 43% owned by overseas capital. So the larger the firm the more likely it is that it will be controlled by overseas interests. That is the trend confronting Gladstone. Already the aluminium industry is 100% in the hands of overseas ownership. The partnership to which the Prime Minister referred is not worth the paper on which it is written. 
The honourable member for Lilley had a lot to say about the high load factor necessary to get cheap power. He said that 
Tasmania and South Australia had been required to pay interest on loans made for similar purposes to the one under discussion. He said that export income is essential in a development of this kind. For how long are we to be guaranteed this export income? Well, he does not say this. We have no guarantee. He asks: 'How could we possibly have started such an industry if it were not for private enterprise?' I asked the honourable member for Lilley by way of interjection whether he had heard of Bell Bay. The honourable member said that we are not talking about Bell Bay. I am going to talk briefly about it. 
Bell Bay was set up as a CommonwealthState partnership in Tasmania to produce aluminium, not bauxite. Bauxite is refined in New Zealand and in the United States of America as well as other places. This is what is happening today. Some of our bauxite is now being refined in Gladstone. We produced our own alumina in Australia.. This was a little bit of Government enterprise. Capital was just as tight then as it is now. In fact, it was tighter. We had problems associated with the war. But we found the capital. We had a very profitable Government concern. I have heard an honourable member opposite praising the Government and giving it a pat on the back because it disposed of this concern to private industry. He said: 'Look at the remarkable results that this has produced and look at the wonderful benefits that it has brought to Australia'. He continued: 'If this had not happened, there would not have been a search for new bauxite deposits. We never would have discovered bauxite at Weipa in North Queensland and we would not have our Gladstone alumina industry today.' 
Unfortunately, the fact is that Weipa bauxite was discovered by the Bureau of Mineral Resources, carrying out socialised activity which falls within the responsibility of the Minister for National Development who is sitting at the table. It was public enterprise that discovered Weipa bauxite. If public enterprise can produce alumina in Tasmania at a time of austerity, if it can find bauxite, if it has foresight and if it is willing to take a risk - this Commonwealth Government is not willing to take any risk in the project under consideration - it can produce alumina in Gladstone and it can produce cheap power for that city. This idea that we must attract overseas capital inflow and put ourselves on the chopping block for those who wish to cut off our heads at any time is nonsense. It is poppycock. 
The honourable member for Lilley contends that Weipa, Moura, Goonyella and Gladstone would never have developed under a Labor philosophy. Let me look to a little bit of history. Let me look to the fact that we are giving now $50Om a year - approximately 5 times this loan money to be provided by this Bill to Queensland - as a present - as an absolute subsidy - to oil firms, if you please, in order to get from them dearer petrol than we had before. This is the sort of nonsense that we hear when we say that a shortage of oil exists in this country. Why could not some of that money be put towards developing power that is a little bit cheaper instead of being used to develop dearer petrol? 
The honourable member for Lilley tells us that an interest holiday is to take place which, in effect, will reduce this 6.4% interest on the money to be provided by way of a loan to Queensland. So it is. But let me assure this House that if it had not been for the vigorous protests that the Leader of the Opposition and I made when the Prime Minister made his statement this concession would never have come about. This concession was not offered in the original agreement before the last federal election. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke of putting priorities into this business. I think that this is the whole crux of the matter. What are the priorities? We have heard a terrible lot about earning export income and attracting overseas capital in order to give us more holes in the ground, more headaches with sewerage problems in Gladstone and so on. Certainly more prosperity will not follow. This industry will attract a few more people to Gladstone and, eventually, by struggling and by cheeseparing on the part of the State, this industry somehow will attract other surrounding industries which will bring a measure of profit to the town. The alumina works will not. The alumina industry will take the profit overseas. But eventually a little bit of prosperity will come out of this development. 
Then we will find that the interest holiday will have done something. It will have achieved a little bit in decentralising that State and this country. But decentralisation was put very low on the list of priorities stated by the Prime Minister and by all Government speakers. They were more interested in what capital they could attract to Australia and what exports they could push out without getting anything back for those exports. I suggest that decentralisation is not putting up some smokestacks out in the bush. It is not polluting new harbours here and there. Decentralisation is not making people work at half a dozen different places instead of at the one big place. Decentralisation is establishing a quality of life by getting people out of these huge diseased structures that we call cities, which are concrete conglomerates of people and industry. Cities suffer from hardening of the arteries. They cannot cope with the traffic generated by people going to and returning from work. They cannot cope with the traffic of children getting to school and back home or even the traffic of housewives going shopping. 
Decentralisation is improving the quality of life by dispersing these huge conglomerates. Unless the Government makes some of its plans with the quality of life in mind, and not the figures of its export budgets, its balance of payments position and the figures contained in its loan interest papers, it will never achieve the confidence of the Australian people. It will never convince the Australian people that it is concerned more about people than profits and more about people than production figures. Alumina cannot be eaten. Aluminium cannot be eaten. What we need is a total plan which will encourage private enterprise and assist private enterprise but which will, above all, use a little bit of public imagination and initiative in order to bring a variety of activities and industries to these places. 
Rockhampton, my home town, is a prosperous and a very nice town to come into. As one comes into the airport there, one sees that the area surrounding it is covered with trees. One finds that it has a tempo of life which helps people to live into their eighties in a graceful way, still be human and still have time to speak to somebody who comes to visit them from the rat race of the south. One will find that in Rockhampton no jobs are available for the 
15361/70- I75J 
unskilled man past 40 years of age if he has the slightest disability which prevents him from doing heavy work. No jobs exist for the teenage girls. They leave the town and go to the big cities for jobs. No jobs are available for the widows or housewives who need to earn something to help their, families. Rockhampton has a concentration of a few heavy industries. 
No planning exists in this country for the quality of life. Industries grow like Topsy where the will of the profit seeker puts them. A man finds a place to put his industry, and that is where it will be. No incentive is provided to a man who wishes to establish, for instance, an electronics factory or a lingerie factory to put his factory in one of these areas. Any number of light industries that I could mention come to mind which could solve this unemployment problem. The development of these industries in areas such as Rockhampton would save the Government thousands of dollars a year in payments in respect of unemployment problems and other social problems. But no planning is done in this direction because the Government does not see its role as that of helping the quality of life. It sees its role as making things easier for private enterprise. 
In respect of clause 19 I wish to take up the point made by my 2 colleagues with regard to the registration of specialists. This whole matter of appointing these committees arose out of the differentiation of Schedules for specialists and general practitioners. It is a totally new concept which came in at the last minute. These committees of approval and appeal had to be worked out at the last minute - so much at the last minute that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has now had to move an amendment. Honourable members on this side of the House considered this anomaly and came up with a very similar amendment, not on the basis that the Minister has quoted that the Australian Medical Association decided, but on the basis that common sense decided. The Government should not be asking the AMA - an essentially politically organised organisation - to decide on specialist qualifications. The Royal Colleges, the academic bodies, should be asked to do this sort of thing. 
If we had an Australian Labor Party health scheme, of course, this whole sorry business of differential rebates could very quickly be tipped into the ashcan, because we propose to make specialist services at a high level of efficiency available free to those who want them free - not by pushing anybody into any kind of conscription, not by forcing specialists to accept salaried services, but by making conditions so attractive for them that that is what they would want to do, as 1 explained in the second reading stage of the debate. This has been proved the most efficient, the most popular, the most economical and the most sensible way under the Kaiser scheme in America. The question is not: Can the GP do this job or can the specialist do it better and should he get a higher fee? It is the whole subject of the standards of medical practice. We have had statements by the AMA itself and the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners that standards ought to be set. They said this as long ago as 3rd April last year in the AMA gazette and I have no doubt that they consulted with the Minister or his advisers on this. 
This whole business of quality of care has been gone into. Why is there not something in the Bill about this? Why do we have to have stopgaps and makeshifts to block up the leaks in a scheme that has only been half thought out? Why do we not have a fundamental reappraisal of the sort of standards we want in specialised care in this country? Why do we have to try to get in the Committee stages of this Bill some sort of answer from the Minister as to what he thinks about the policing of standards by the profession? This is no system of policing standards, deciding whether a fellow is a specialist in this field or that field. What we want to say is: Is this doctor capable of performing one of those thousand-odd procedures that we will discuss in 25 minutes tomorrow? I realise that it is ridiculous for this Committee to have to go through every one of those procedures and decide exactly whether or not it should bc listed as a specialist procedure. 
What we should be doing is setting up highly specialised academic committees to advise this Government on a proper health service for this nation, on proper health standards for this nation, on the accreditation of doctors, on quality control, on accreditation of hospitals and on the audit of medical care in clinics, private or public. This is the sort of thing going on overseas. It has been a burning quest' on for many years in America, but this Government says nothing about it. The excuse it gives is that this is a State matter. It says that it will leave this to the States because it is primarily their responsiblity. An honourable member opposite interjects to say: That is right'. Of course it is. So what does the Government do when we suggest that those very States whose responsibility it is to achieve standards of medical care should have 1 nominee on this committee for each State? The Government says that it does not matter because already one of the appointees to one of these royal colleges will have had experience on the specialist register of that State. What kind of quality control do you get with an arrangement like that? lt is the old story of the dog chasing its tail. All the Government is doing is resorting to stop gap measures - attempting to plug the leaks in th:s leaky ship and hoping that it will stay afloat. No doubt it will for a while, because we have nothing better. 1 would like to develop this theme because it is vital to the whole concept of a national health scheme. Unfortunately, by doing so I will prejudice the right of my colleagues to d'scuss other clauses up to clause 21, for we have only 64 minutes remaining in which to discuss those clauses. I submit that the Minister has no valid reason for rejecting the Opposition's suggestion that a State appointee be allowed to sit on the State committees which will decide spec:alist qualifications. Specialist qualifications are not an important issue but if you are to include them, for heaven's sake allow the people who have been responsible for the quality of medical care over all these years and whom Government supporters say are responsible for this matter to appoint at least one of their number to this committee of 5 or 6 doctors. 
Amendment agreed to. 
That clause 19, as amended, be agreed to. 
Does the honourable member for Maribyrnong desire to move amendment No. 11 standing in his name? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Does the Government recognise that chemical and biological weapons are most dangerous to those least fit to carry arms. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "46a. Section 101 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (2b) the following sub-section: - (2c.) Parliament shall be advised of the names and qualifications of those persons appointed under the foregoing provisions.'.". 
This is asking that we in this Parliament be informed of the personnel and the qualifications of the people who are appointed to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. The main function of this Committee is to advise the Minister for Health on those items which shall be included as subsidised prescriptions or as free medicine for pensioners. There are one or two other categories such as free doctors' bag supplies and certain hospital items. The important group of course is the general pharmaceutical benefits which are available to anyone on a doctor's prescription if that prescription is in accordance with the Act and those benefits available to pensioners. 
When the Labor Party introduced a medical scheme with a schedule it was thrown out on various technicalities, including the fact that the High Court of Australia ruled that it was conscription to require doctors to use a government form. Shortly after, of course, the Earle Page scheme came in. It purported to provide life saving and disease preventing drugs on prescription free, but not the wide range that the Labor Government had proposed. Since then the Government has made a magnaminous gesture by saying that it will cover 90% of the cost of doctors' prescriptions provided that the patient pays the first 50c of each prescription. That 90% has proved to be wrong. It is probably nearer to 85% of prescriptions that are now covered under the pharmaceutical benefits laws. 
The point to whichI want particularly to address myself is the conditions under which these drugs are made available. First of all, there is a maximum quantity which may be put on any one prescription, and this maximum quantity is set in a way that no Minister for Health has ever made clear. Well over 12 months ago I suggested to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  that a full 5-day course of antibiotics should be available on 1 prescription, as was recommended in the prescribers journal provided to every doctor by the Government. I am glad to say that this provision has been implemented after a delay of many months. But if we look at the sort of drugs that are available in a far bigger supply - a supply that will last for a month with perhaps a repeat for another couple of months - in many cases we will find that they are the cheaper drugs. The expensive ones are limited. The more expensive of these are further restricted as to which disease they will be approved for, and the written authority of the State Director of the Commonwealth Department of Health is required before some of these drugs can be made available. With some more expensive ones the doctor even has to make extensive clinical notes available just to indicate why this drug should be made available free. I am not saying that there is not a case for doctors to justify in some way expensive prescribing. What I am saying is that if this sort of policing is to go on it will create genuine hardship in some cases. 
Because of the short time that is available to us in this guillotined debate I can refer to only 1 case. It is the case of a child whose life was at stake because there was only 1 antibiotic available for a case of pneumonia. The child specialist in charge of the case, who was qualified and registered in the State of Queensland, had to make out a case for prescribing this drug. Without being given any reasons for the decision and without having any right of appeal against it, he was refused permission to prescribe it as a pharmaceutical benefit. The parents of the child, who could ill afford to pay for the drug and who really should have had their child in a public hospital if the specialist had been available there, had to pay several hundred dollars for this one drug to treat this fairly long and critical illness. The child was saved and I have no doubt that the parents are very thankful that this happened and were willing to pay this money. But why should they have had to pay it? 
There should be some way by which people can have access to this Committee and see on what criteria it decides that a drug is put on the subsidised list. They should be able to see the Director of the 
Department of Health in the State and ascertain his criteria for denying people this drug as a free drug. It should be on the basis of the trust that occurs everywhere else in the medical profession that the people concerned in the case consult with each other. It should not be done by means of forms sent through the post with a oneway decision coming to the doctor attending the patient. 
There are precedents for this. For instance, some States have a consultant service available to doctors over the telephone for obstetric emergencies. The State finances this and makes this sort of two-way consultation available free. That is the sort of thing that should occur if one intervenes between a doctor with his clinical judgment and the patient. There should be no form filling and posting. There should be immediate consultation so that this can be done. The doctor should not be put to the expense of making trunk line calls in a case of this kind, to pinpoint specifically the reason for listing drugs by the Pharmaceutical Benefist Advisory Committee; their names and qualifications should be published. 
Because of the guillotine I can talk about only 1 drug, phenylbutazone. That drug has been on and off the various lists over the years in a way that makes one wonder whether the Committee members really know their clinical work. On the first occasion that butazolidin was removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list the then Minister for Health said, in answer to a question, that it was a very dangerous drug. We know that it is dangerous and ought to be used carefully and with discretion. The drug was not banned. No new restrictions we're placed on the prescribing of it. The only restriction was that a patient who needed the drug had to pay the full cost instead of the 5s for what was the arbitrarily set maximum quantity. Subsequently, while the same Minister for Health was in office, the drug was put back onto the free list for pensioners only. If that Minister was genuine and if his advisers were genuine in giving him that reason one can only assume that it does not matter how dangerous a drug is for a pensioner; it matters only for the patient who has to pay for it. He must pay the full price in order to safeguard himself from the dangers, of that drug. 
This is no way in which to run a good quality, sound medical profession. The public should know who the members of the Advisory Committee are. They should be prepared to stand and be counted and discuss their decisions just as any other advisory committee does. We do not find engineers hiding behind anonymous panels. We do not have any other professional people doing this. The names of the directors-general of health are made public. We on this side of the House maintain that all such advisers should be prepared to stand and be counted. It has been said that they must be protected from the brainwashing of the drug firms. This is not so. All of us in the medical profession are subjected to this brainwashing. What is more, most of the big drug firms know the names of the members anyway. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. 1 ask: Has he received reports that a leading university physician has recommended regular psychiatric examination of politicians? Has Australia signed a document which states that war begins in the minds of men and it is in the minds of men that peace must be constructed? In conformity with this does be agree with historians and psychiatrists that the expressed motives for war policies are inaccurate and that sterotyped attitudes to unfamiliar groups of persons are the cause of prolonging war and making war? Will he seek a report from psychiatrists regarding the advisability of Australia's foreign policy makers including in their councils one or more persons with psychiatric training? 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he consider approaches to the major English-speaking countries to ask for their support in principle for a treaty to set up an international commission to advise on approved changes in English spelling conventions and usage and which will take into account (a) the evolving nature of language, (b) the relative fixity of spelling, (c) the emergence of dialects in India attributable in part to confusion due to outdated spellings, (d) the discovery that illogical spelling is the major cause of dyslexia and costs English-speaking scholars one to two years schooling time as compared wilh scholars speaking most alphabetised languages and (e) the publication in 1969 of the first comprehensive but gradual phonetic reform possible by Lindgren. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the United Nations Charter absolve members or all nations from the normal responsibilities of initialing military action if the victim of aggression is Japan, Italy, Germany or Hungary. 
If so, will Australia take steps through the Sixth Committee of the United Nations lo correct this anomaly. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, uponnotice: 
Will the Government: 
promote public discussion on agenda items for the Sixth Committee review of the United Nations Charter before the Committee's relevant deliberations, and 
table these items  as  soon as they are available. 
asked the Minister for 
Externa! Affairs, upon notice: 
What arguments did Ghana, Australia or others give in support of Ghana's amendment to the United Nations Charter review resolution referred to in the answer to my question No. 722 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1652). 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Will he table the feasibility study of Maunsell and Partners, commissioned in July 1968, on Darwin port development. 
Will a copy be made available to harbour boards elsewhere on request. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did he promise in 1969 policy statements that the voluntary insurance scheme would cover 90 per cent of most common medical fees. 
Do general practitioner consultations produce the bulk of the medical expenses of most families. 
What percentages of common fees are rebated for (a) such consultations and (b) home visits by general practitioners. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he consider assisting accreditation of general practitioners by professional colleagues and hospitals on a regional basis to perform procedures at specialist rates attracting specialist rates of medical benefits where distance places specialist attention beyond the reasonable reach of many or most patients. 
Will he make such specialist care available under the Pensioner Medical Services Scheme where the cost of travel and accommodation for pensioners to obtain specialised public hospital care would exceed the cost of private care. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will be consider recommending concession passes on Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas flights to student nurses on terms similar to those extended to other students. 
I want to, first, support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  This Bill is an example of a broken down fire brigade approach to what should be long range planning. Here we have an emergency effort, which is still a dismal one, which does not give the priority to the full scheme as recommended by the State of Queensland and which, as the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  has said, shows no concern by the Commonwealth for priorities within the State. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has admitted as much. He has said that he is not concerned with State priorities in a State, but only as between States. The scheme does not correlate or integrate with any other department of government or long range policy. 
The honourable member for Dawson has told us that what we need first of all is a cost benefit analysis. 1 want to suggest to this House that benefits are not just the sorts of things which economists only place in their economic analyses, whether it be this rather thick document put out by the State of Queensland on the Bundaberg region, whether it be the costing done and the cost benefit analysis done by the Snowy Mountains Authority, or any others. These people are restricted to fairly immediate considerations. They are not concerned with the development of this country as a nation. 1 wish to protest first of all at the ad hoc nature of this approach. The Government, as it usually does, has waited until a public outcry has occurred and people have been walking up and down the streets of Bundaberg selling buttons which read: 'We want water. Voluntary organisations have more get up and go and more initiative in broad national planning than this Government which ought to be giving the lead and which ought to be educating the grass roots people so that they can use their vote intelligently and can assist the Government instead of having to buck it all the time to get the slightest minimum of action. 
This is an emergency grant. That is what it is. lt is not the scheme which ought to be contemplated as the proper way of handling this urgent need of the sugar producing areas not only in this Kolan-Burnet 1 area of the Bundaberg sugar producing region but also, as the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  has said, in the areas south of the river including the Isis region and the Childers region. All these areas ought to be tackled as a unit. The full proposals in logical order as put out by the Queensland Government Irrigation and Water Supply Commission should have been backed to the hilt by this Government. This Government is the only one which can finance such development and da- it with the fullest resources and with the best priorities not only to relieve the urgent needs of those growers who most desperately need water now - they will not get it for another 3 years at least - but also to deal with long range planning needs which should have been accepted many years ago. 
Why should it be left to the States all the time to come up with the detailed planning1 Why should the States b; left with the laborious effort of compiling this data, negotiating it, revising it. renegotiating it and putting it up for Commonwealth experts to pull apart and to say: 'Do it again; you have not done your homework"/ Why should the States be required to take the initiative in these matters? It is the Commonwealth which comes along and claims the credit by grandly handing out a bit of a grant or more often. I might say, a loan for development works in these States and demanding in return its pound of flesh in interest. Why should this be the position in a country where only I government holds the purse strings and where only I government can decide priorities on a national scale? We have the vision not of Cabinet co-ordination in planning but of Cabinet disintegration. 
We saw it, as some preceding speakers such as the honourable member for Dawson mentioned, in the Chowilla-Dartmouth debate. We are given a cut and dried decision. We are given an overall sketchy argument as to why a certain plan should be put up. But we are given no real alternatives. We are given no reasoned approach whereby we can say: 'Yes, step by step, this is the logical scheme to adopt*. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  answered this criticism by saying: 'But, of course, you did have the costing of the Chowilla project. You did have the cost of the Dartmouth project. So. I fail to see what the honourable member for Dawson is referring to'. 
The honourable member for Farrer was mystified about it. 
What the honourable member for Dawson was referring to was the fact that we were given again this cut and dried alternative - either we' have this or we have that. No attempt was made to correlate what would happen if we had both, if we had stages of both or if wc had both in stages of one with stages of the other. I believe that I stand closer to the honourable member for Farrer and the honourable member for Dawson in my approach to water conservation than I stand to, say, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and to  Dr Davidson  who wrote his book knocking all sorts of water projects. My reason is not just that we have a dry continent but that this continent has very little water left that we can use for the people whom we are bringing here. 
I think that we must have a very firm look at our immigration policy. I think that we will need to reverse it in some areas. We are succeeding in piling more and more bodies into the great overgrown cities of Melbourne and Sydney. We are not getting centres fit for people to live in, located in areas where a reserve of water is available. Again, I will quote the honourable e member for Farrer - a former Minister for National Development - who said that Queensland has probably the greatest water resources in Australia but only a little money to develop them. Now, what is the position? Where is the Government to put its development? Where will it put its people? Where are these new centres to be established? The Government cannot put these people in Melbourne. Melbourne is fighting already with New South Wales and the Riverina as to which will have the water for Melbourne. The Government cannot put these people in Sydney because Sydney is having difficulties not only in getting water into the city but also in getting it out again. The headaches caused by pollution and traffic are choking the development of Sydney. 
If the Government is to accommodate these people, it will need to build big new centres in areas where the resources are available for these people to live. Plenty of water will be needed to do this particularly if these people are to have a diversity of interests nearby so that they will have reasonable chances of full employment and diversity for their families to get jobs and so to stay in these centres. What the honourable member for Farrer said is exactly right. The only place where we have big water resources is Queensland. But this is undeveloped water. The snag is that it is so irregularly arranged in time. The average annual rainfall in the area referred to in the Bill - that is the Kolan-Burnett region - according to the explanatory memorandum which the Minister for National Development has circulated wilh the Bill, is stated to be between 44 inches in the eastern section - that is the catchment for the Kolan River - and 38 inches in the western section, which is the Burnett catchment. The Burnett catchment is a much bigger area but provides not a great deal more water because of the lower rainfall west of the coastal range which separates the 2 catchments. 
As this memorandum points out, the rainfall is terribly variable not only during the year, because most of the rain falls in the one wet season in the summer, but also from year to year because this area has about 3 drought years in every 10 years. This type of situation is much more marked in coastal Queensland than in any other part of Australia with a comparable rainfall. That is quite a respectably high rainfall. This is the sort of rainfall that is received in other closely settled parts of the coastal fringe of this country. There is nothing wrong with an annual rainfall varying from 44 inches to 38 inches if that rainfall is spread reasonably as it is in other places in Australia. But this is not the case in the Kolan-Burnett area. 
This is where hardship, inhumanity and injustice are being suffered by these farmers who have suffered 8 drought years in the last 9 years. They are very lucky to have a crop this year because the rainfall is still subnormal'. Last year was really the worst year on record. 1 suppose that it could be said that most of the dry farming sugar areas in this region received approximately 10% of their crop, if that. This tragedy has not been stopped. As the Minister and others have pointed out, the problem is not just that the rainfall has not recovered properly. The problem is that the reserve water under the ground is still decreasing. 
Until we have two or three Hood years, or years of above average rainfall, the slow spreading gangrene and the tragedy that is affecting this industry will not be slopped. This project will be too late for many farmers unless we have a Hood very soon; even next year will be too late for some of them. 
What should be done? More to the point, what should have been done? As the honourable member for Dawson has said, there should have been national priorities - not State priorities, not State begging, not State agitation and nol public protest. National priorities should have been set when the Snowy Mountains scheme was launched and those priorities should have been stuck to instead of the Snowy scheme being tapered off. This is the pity and the tragedy of having a Government which insists on an ad hoc approach instead of planning. The Government is not planning because it is frightened that it will be labelled politically as too far left, as having a discredited philosophy or a foreign philosophy. The only philosophy which the Government has is the tattered remnants of an outworn one that went out with Queen Victoria. 
I want to refer briefly to the sorts of things that ought to be exercising the minds of those in government when the Government decides these priorities. They should not concentrate only on water priorities. I have put forward an argument for giving Queensland the No. 1 priority. Queensland has this variable rainfall. Any school child with an atlas detailing the monthly variations of rainfalls in the different rainfall regions of Australia can demonstrate that there is no annual variation elsewhere in Australia like that which occurs in coastal Queensland. As the honourable member for Dawson said, records over the last 50 years show that there is no other region in Australia which has such a rainfall variation from year to year. There is no other region where one can expect 3 drought years in every 10 years. But there are other things that can influence priorities besides water, and one of those is politics. This is what we are here for but unfortunately sometimes this does not mean politics in any enlightened way of serving Australians. It means a short range or shortsighted policy - what will serve until the next election. 
This is the pity of what I have called politics in deciding priorities. 
Even from this narrow and shortsighted point of view there is no need to search for things like the Ord River project or the Nogoa scheme, which are not as urgent or as beneficial from the economists' point of view as other schemes, in order to show that we are being impartial and helping all the States equally. Western Australia might have been better off to undertake other schemes before the Ord scheme. That State might have done better to have had a steel works. Of course everybody knows this now, but we should have known it when the Ord scheme was being considered; then even the short range protest that we must not carry out the Burnett and Burdekin proposals before giving something to Western Australia would have been without foundation. In that situation Western Australia would have been given something which it needed and Australia woUld have been better off. There would have been no basis for protesting that we have to balance the water grants to the States. I am not saying that we should not have the Ord scheme, but I am saying that it is a far more controversial project than a steel works for Western Australia or the Burnett or Burdekin schemes for Queensland. These are the broader visions which are not apparent in this Government's Cabinet because it does not correlate what one department does with what another department does. It seems that even the Department of National Development has nol the imagination to balance other kinds of projects against water projects. 
Tasmania, for example, might be quite contented if it had an expanded aluminium industry rather than more money for water. One may say: Well, what about Victoria? What about New South Wales? What about South Australia? They are all crying out for water. Of course they are, and they need it, but they need it for different reasons. South Australia needs it for settlement, for people and for industry, and at this stage probably more than for irrigation. Wherever one goes the two objectives will have their claims. Irrigation will have its claim and population centres will have their claim, ft is very difficult to say, when a cost benefit analysis is undertaken, what the value of a water scheme will be, because primary production based on irrigation brings about population centres and population centres have a value that is very rarely costed in irrigation costing and cost benefit analyses. Therefore it is necessary to have a slightly broader view instead of merely saying: Where can we use water for irrigation? We have to say: Where can we build centres and cities to establish people to improve the quality of life? We should have a look at our migration policy and see if we should not be giving more attention to encouraging people to migrate from our own cities into new centres than to encouraging them to migrate from other countries to Australia and creating more urban problems for ourselves. 

 Mr Speaker, I commend the step, such as it is and as late as it is, outlined in the Bill. I commend the adoption of the Queensland plan, such as it is. I deplore the need for it to have developed so painfully over so many years without the help of the Snowy Mountains scheme. I deplore the lack of information that is given to this Parliament, and, it seems, the lack of discussion of it by the Cabinet. I therefore support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. I think it is high time that we had put before us rationally and plainly this kind of information so that we can make practical decisions here and so that the public can see that we have made the right decisions. The honourable member for Farrer objected to the amendment because he said he had grave reservations about making confidential reports generally available. Has he grave reservations about the Queensland Government making this p'an available? Has he grave reservations about the cost benefit analyses which he said were made freely available on the Chowilla and Dartmouth projects? Where are these secret documents about which he has such reservations? Are they stamped 'top secret' in the Minister's filing cabinet? If not, why are they not here? Why are they not condensed and put before us. The 'Readers Digest' could do it. Half a dozen good journalists could do it. I feel that it would be far better for this Cabinet to employ half a dozen people to prepare these summaries, if necessary, rather than using all sorts of public relations officers, trade experts and other propaganda devices to pull the wool over the people's eyes instead of giving them the facts and letting them gain confidence from the facts. 
Of course it should, lt should have been done a long time ago. That is the theme of my speech. The only point I am making is that if we had the proper information placed before us as to the priorities we would bc convinced, as  Mr Haigh  of the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission is convinced, that this is not the most economic way to spend the money. There are some things we have to pay for whether we provide the money or not and one of them is the full Kolan-Burnett-Isis scheme. We will have to pay through the nose every year that we do not have that full scheme. 1 am not objecting to this scheme: I am objecting to the deficiencies and the failure of the Government to give us more than half a loaf as a good investment for Australia's future. Queensland has convinced the Commonwealth that this scheme is going to pay for itself because of stability in the sugar industry and because of the guaranteed returns. Why then is the Commonwealth not convinced that the entire scheme will pay for itself? The Government is not convinced because it has not done enough homework on this project. That is why it cannot present us with a case that has been fully argued. The Government did not want to go into too much detail because this would show up the fact that the full scheme ought to be implemented as a coherent plan, lt will cost more if it is done piecemeal, by doing it in the way proposed and leaving it to the Queensland Government to concentrate on the Monduran Dam scheme and the linkages instead of coordinating all the works. I do not want to delay this dam: I want the other works to proceed at the same time in order to make it more efficient and to get a better return for the money in the long run. Eventually that money will have to be spent and this entire project will cost more. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is there a need to make oxygen supplies available to pensioners at home to prevent hospitalisation or grave illness. 
If so, will he take action to make these supplies available in these circumstances under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme on the certificate of 2 physicians to the effect that this is necessary. 
Will he consider legislation to make oxygenadministering equipment available in such cases on terms similar to those governing the issue of hearing aids by the Commonwealth. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many subscribers had their telephone lines upgraded from the beginning of 1968 to date. 
What is the estimated number of subscribers whose telephone lines will be upgraded from the present to the end of 1972. 
What was the average length of line upgraded for each subscriber from the beginning of 1968 to date. 
What is the estimated average length of line which will be upgraded for each subscriber from the present to the end of 1972. 
What was the average cost of upgrading each line for the last year for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to E. L. Millard's 'Freedom in a Federal World', Edition 5, published in New York in 1969 and compiled on the basis of 16 year discussions by the Conference Upon Research and Education in World Government. 
If so, what opinions has Australia expressed relevant to the United Nations Charter revisions recommended in that publication as regards Charter Articles 9, 17, 48, 50, 95 and 107. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he give immediate consideration to the adoption, as from New Year's Day 1973, of The Perpetual Calendar which has been approved by the legislatures of Hawaii and Massachusetts and which could eventually replace, among other calendars, the 15 calendars of India, the 3 of Thailand, the 5 of Jerusalem, and which would have the advantage of equalising and regularising the same pattern of 13 weeks in every quarter, with each monthly and half monthly period starting on a constant pattern of weekdays, intercalating New Year's Day (January zero) and in leap years, a Leap Year Day (July zero) as holidays apart from the weekly cycle. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said that vocational training was a matter which would be looked into again as experience in the operation of this scheme accrued. That is an example of shutting the stable door after the cow has escaped. Now is the time to look at this matter and do some assessment of the position before people are thrown on to the labour market. Something should be done now about surveying marginal farms to find out what the farmers concerned need to encourage them to take part in this scheme. If they do not take part in it, what the Minister himself called a crisis situation when he was speaking to the Victorian Dairyfarmers Association on 26th May this year will not be overcome. In the course of that speech in Melbourne the Minister said: 
Without production restraints, a conservative underwriting figure of around 29c per lb commercial butter basis would need to be adopted. An underwriting figure of 29c would almost certainly lead to chaos in the industry and a breakdown in the equalisation arrangements with States making every effort to seal off their markets. 
That would be a situation of complete panic and even riot. He went on: 
In a situation like this we could get into a hopeless price war with domestic returns even coming down to export levels. Clearly this must not be allowed to happen. I recognise the importance to the industry of continuing the underwriting at the 34c level. This was one of the principal reasons behind my recent statements that, if the industry expected the Government to underwrite at 34c, the industry certainly would have to put up some suggestions and some proposals to the Government as to how some disincentive might be introduced against further production increases.  lt is all very well to say that the industry has to put up some suggestions to the Government, but whose job is it to- create disincentives? Who creates incentive? Who created the incentive for such gross expansion of dairying areas in Victoria? Was it the industry or was it a government? The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has pointed out clearly that it was the irresponsible action of the Bolte Government. The Minister for Primary Industry went on: 
Much dissatisfaction exists in certain States . . . as a result of increasing production here in Victoria and in Tasmania. 
That was putting it mildly. There is certainly very much dissatisfaction throughout the dairying industry in all States as a result of that situation. Later the Minister said:  1 do not accept . . . that the Government should lake over from farmers and their industry organisations the responsibility for planning the production and distribution of their output. 
In other words, not only does he not want to start dabbling in production and distribution, he does not want to start dabbling even in planning. 
What does he say a little later? He went on lo contradict this by saying: ' 
One of  the  important ways in which the Commonwealth warns to help is ... in  the  reconstruction of the marginal or low income dairy farm. 
Who had the initiate there? Who was putting up the proposal for a disincentive? Was it the industry that the Minister said he did not want to interfere with or was it the Government? The answer is set out in the Minister's own words because he said:  1 am pleased lo sec in the proposals which the industry made to the Government only last week a call for the urgent implementation of this scheme. 
The industry did not put up the scheme but the Minister says that the industry was calling for its urgent implementation and that he was very pleased. He said that this confirmed the earlier expressions of support which the industry throughout Australia had given. Just before that he said that he did not want to take the initiative; - that he wanted the industry to produce some plan for disincentives. Yet on the very next page of this report he states that lie is very pleased that the industry had approved the Government's schemes for disincentives. 
This is a very muddled approach to the situation. There are ways in which the industry can bc helped and encouraged to work out these proposals. Why should a farmer who is not an administrator be asked to put up a scheme for administering? Why should a producer or distributor be asked to put up a scheme for long distance planning for an export industry? That isnot the business of the producer or distributor. lt is the .Government's business. The Government cannot back out of it and' pass the buck to the producers. The Government can suggest minimal reasonable conditions for subsidy. I am not sayingfessions this should be plonked on to the industry and that the Government should say: 'Take it or leave it'. I am not putting this forward in a dictatorial manner. -I say that this could be put in a reasonable manner to the industry, lt could be discussed wilh industry representatives and worked out in the same way as the Government can go reasonably to the medical profession or any other pro.fessions to discuss a reasonable basis for' working out their problems. 
I now want lo put forward some points ' that could be put to the industry. Firstly there should be non-transferable licensing of bona fids producers. The Minister has said that this has to bc left to the States. If the Government wants to leave everything to the Stales why has this Bill been presented? Why do anything? The States can do this, lt is no approach to the problem to say that it is a matter for the States. This is a matter for this Government. It has to start putting things to the States and to the industry and not continue to expect . them to come to it. to make all the decisions and do all the detailed planning. The first point is that there has to be licensing. The Government ought to take some stand on this matter. It should make some approaches and take some initiative. It should go to these people, put up a proposition and discuss it with them. 
The second point is that there should be a national authority with producer and consumer representation. I do not mind -if it has a maximum representation of producers. The producers have their national organisation. The Government is quite capable of coming up with some sort of ' authority to set up a plan for organised marketing. It is high time this was done. Why wait for the industry to bring forward suggestions? Why did not the Minister say that in his speech? It was something concrete ' that he could have put forward. He has plenty of precedents. It has been done in every successful organised marketing of any primary product that has been rationalised. Unfortunately this always has been done by Labor governments except, I think, in the cass of wine and honey. Another idea he could have put forward is that of regional boards to set a ceiling of a reasonable quota. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Will he request the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization Rainmaking Division to equip private airplanes in strategic centres with cloudseeding equipment to reduce costs of moving this equipment to drought centres when favourable conditions arise for seeding. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What corrective and specialised education facilities are available in the Australian Capital Territory for children with specific learning handicaps. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that Comalco, a mainly foreign owned company, has made shares available to Queensland Cabinet Ministers? Will he investigate to ascertain whether this action could reasonably be seen to be an exercise of undue influence and an improper practice by a key export industry which is largely dependent on favourable State government decisions and State requests for Federal financial assistance? 
The Minister's reasons are not acceptable to the Opposition. We maintain the carefully considered position we took up when this amendment was first moved in this place and in another place. The Minister's reasons are not new although he has now elaborated slightly on them. First of all, he said that this amendment would place added burdens on the members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee if they were required to give specific reasons for excluding a drug from the pharmaceutical benefits list. What are those added burdens? The first is that the Committee would have to commit to writing succinctly in a report to this Parliament the scientific and medical grounds on which it refused the inclusion of the drug. The second burden the Minister referred to, only in an oblique fashion, was that it would be a deterrent to people accepting a position on the Committee if they knew that this report was to come before the Parliament. 
The Minister has said that there is room for discussion about drugs excluded from the list to take place in the medical journals. Let us take a specific example. Let us assume that the drug called phenylbutazone, which is a popular drug for use in rheumatic and joint conditions, has been excluded from the list. This has occurred. Questions would then be asked in this Parliament, the reasons for the exclusion would be given, the drug would later be added to the list but no reasons would be given for this despite the fact that the reasons for its exclusion in the first place and as reported to this Parliament still existed. Let us further suppose that the reasons given were that this drug was a dangerous drug and must be used with care. I confidently submit - anybody with commonsense will agree - that that was not the true reason or the drug would never have been restored to the list at a later date. All that I, the Opposition and the Senate ask is that the sensible, true, scientific, medical reason be made public. 
Nonsense? What is the amendment seeking? I shall read what the Opposition is seeking: 
When the Committee recommends that drugs and medicinal preparations should not be made available as pharmaceutical benefits ... the reasons for the recommendations, shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within 14 sitting days . . . 
The honourable member can call that nonsense if he wishes but I think it is perfectly fair. I ask him: Is a scientific reason nonsense? The Minister said that exclusions could be debated in medical journals. That is true. But the debates in the medical journals can speculate only as to the reasons in the minds of the advisers on the Committee for the exclusion of a drug. Such speculation is quite fruitless because there is no way of asking the people on the Committee. That the Government has accepted the first part of the amendment requiring names and qualifications to be published is a step forward and virtually an admission by the Government that this should be done. The amendment provides: The names and the qualifications of those persons appointed under the foregoing provisions shall be published in the 'Gazette'. 
Honourable members will recall that when we first suggested this amendment in this place the Government said it would be intolerable because people would never go on a committee if their names and their qualifications were made public and people could get at them. We said quite rightly that most of the important drug firms, who are the ones who really want to get at these officers and to influence them to change the drug list, already have found out who they are. So the Minister has not made a very major concession to the drug firms by saying that their names shall be published. But I submit that he has made a concession in this House, to the Senate, to this Opposition and to the people who are saying; We should know not only their names but also their reasons as reasonable, scientific and experienced medical men. If these reasons are not forthcoming we can only assume that the Government has some reason for hiding them*. 
The Minister says that if these reasons were published it would cause needless concern and loss of confidence among patients. I would just like him to have a look at his files some time and look at the correspondence he has received concerning the exclusions of drugs from this pharmaceutical benefits list. I would like him to analyse it and ascertain the percentage of those letters that are showing confidence and preventing the concern of patients. I would submit that this very secrecy is causing their concern. If anything has caused that loss of confidence it is the very secrecy of these reasons for excluding drugs from this list. The only way to restore this confidence and to remove that concern is for the patients to be assured that these things have, been thrashed out in the light of day and not by people selected by the Government in secrecy to make secret decisions under the influence of officers of the Minister's Department. These officers can go along and say, and I am sure that this is what happens, although Ministers of Health consistently have denied it: 'You know this is rather an expensive drug. The bil'l is rising every year. Doctors are a little inclined to prescribe this a bit freely. Be very careful how freely you place this in the hands of doctors. If you must really put it on the free list, hedge it around with a few restrictions. Make it available only to pensioners.' That was done with this same drug - phenylbutazone. 
After it had been denied to everybody there was such an outcry from pensioners who suffered from these joint conditions that it was placed back on the list, for pensioners only. It was still a dangerous drug. The reason the Minister had given was still there. It was a dangerous drug and should be used carefully; but of course such care does not have to be taken with pensioners because they cannot afford to pay for a private prescription. It had to be made free for them. The Minister's reason does not ring true. It does not jibe with the facts It is inadequate. We stand by our original contention. We stand by the amendment from the Senate, that the whole of the Senate's recommendations should be accepted by this House and that when the committee recommends that a drug should not be made available, the reasons shall be laid before the Parliament within 14 sitting days. This is a reasonable, humane and democratic request. Any man on that advisory committee who is worth his salt will not use this as an excuse to resign. In fact, it will be an incentive to a man of honour to go on and justify his decisions as to which drugs are made available to the public of Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What reasons have been made known to him for the refusal of nations to surrender their sovereignty to an agreed supranational authority to an extent necessary to make redunant the arms race and the balance of terror as the existing unstable basis for world peace (Hansard, 5 May 1970, page 1648). 
Can he say (a) what nations besides Denmark have declared their intention of joining such an authority and of taking steps through the United Nations towards such an agreement and (b) what national leaders have declared their attitude to these principles. 
Has he a reason for not yet declaring his support for such moves towards a world rule of law other than the reason indicated in his reply to my question No. 702, namely, that other nations are not yet prepared to accept a supranational sovereignty. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What is the latest available estimated figure of the total annual tax remissions granted to (a) foreign owners and interests in Australia, (b) Australian firms with over half foreign equity and (c) Australian firms with foreign equity less than half. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has he stated that, because drought affects most of Australia, it seems impracticable to set regional priorities for water conservation. 
Does the paper Fitzroy Region, Queensland. Resources Series on Climate, published by his Department in 1965, state that the growing season in the region is most seriously affected by partial or complete failure of the summer rains about 3 years in 10 over the western part of the basin, and that there is high variability in amount and incidence of rainfall in monthly or yearly averages. 
Does this variability apply more to Queensland as a whole than to other States. 
Will the Government review its policy of leaving priorities in water conservation to State initiatives. 
 I apologise for detaining the House but I must respond to some matters which have come to my notice regarding the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund and some statements which have been made in criticism of it by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  I have tried to contact him this evening to let him know that I would be discussing this subject. 1 make no personal attack on him. He is an amiable and peacable kind of man in his face to face transactions but it is his resort to violence at the international level that I want to criticise tonight. He has referred to the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund as a typical Communist front organisation. In effect he has said the same of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 
I will discuss what he means by it, but first of all I want to say that I belong to those organisations and that I know of Communists in one of them. I know too of some very honourable gentlemen who are not Communists. For example,  Mr  St. John who was recently the honourable member for Warringah in this House, is an official of- the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund. If the honourable member for Boothby means that the Communists instigate, support or influence these movements then it is equally true to call them Australian Labor Party fronts or Australia Party fronts or Australian Council of Churches fronts and so on because all of those organisations have members who take part in their activities, who influence them, who support them, who instigate them. 
However, if he means that the Communists hide their identity and their longer range aims in these movements - in other words, subvert them - then all I can say is that the Communists have a very inefficient organisation. They do not seem to be getting far with the technique of subversion. The net effect is that the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Churches gets the credit for the activities of those organisations while the Communist Party in this country becomes more divided, weaker and loses its members. I cannot see that its activities are giving it strength. However, that is beside the point. I think that the boot is on the other foot. The so-called Communist fronts are making use of the hard work and dedication of some Communists to further their own long range aims. In other words, much as the Communist who takes part in these activities may think that he is strengthening the Communist Party, my personal opinion is that he is strengthening the movement that he assists. If he hides his identity and his long range aims he is not really getting much closer to them except insofar as he helps the movement with which he is associated. 
I will co-operate with Fascists, with Communists, with Satan in a good cause. Do not let us have any of this nonsense of trying to smear people who work in organisations because those organisations are fronts for this, that or the other. The point is not what they are fronts for; the point is what they are doing. Let us judge them on - the issues and on their actions. 
The illness which is being fostered in the community by statements like those of the honourable member for Boothby is known as paranoia. When if affects individuals it takes the form of delusions of persecution which, when they become prolonged and entrenched, give rise also to delusions of grandeur. This is the dangerous illness which causes wars. That was particularly well typified in gentlemen like the late Herr Hitler and Josef Stalin. These delusions of persecution, these delusions of grandeur, the feeling that you are the only one who knows what is right and what should be done, are destroying the world's chances of peace and co-operation. 
Let us look at what is being done by the South African Defence and Aid Fund. It is pointing out, first of all, that South Africa is based on minority rule. I do not suppose that Australia can fairly point the bone at South Africa in that respect. We have majority rule here, but I wonder how long it would last if the whites became outnumbered by the Aboriginals. I am not saying that Australia has clean hands in this matter just because we have majority rule. Nevertheless, this is a pernicious principle that is applied in South Africa and no steps are being taken to correct it. At least in Australia the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, is doing his best to reverse the tendency of majority rule to cause racial suppression in this country. 
I wish now to refer to an organisation which some honourable members opposite may care to call a Communist front organisation. It has been said that South Africa is a police state which acts in violation of almost every article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I could name quite a string of such acts. Arrest without trial is one that is very popular right now in South Africa where more and more oppressive laws are being introduced. This organisation which honourable members opposite may term a Communist front is the International Commission of Jurists. Let us not identify as Communist front propoganda everything said by the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund. This organisation on 28th April last sent a circular to every member of this House. Apartheid is a disease. 
I am sorry for the honourable gentleman who does not know what I am talking about. I will be very happy to place my services at his disposal, in a professional capacity or otherwise to ensure that he understands perfectly what I am talking about. I am talking about the disease which is eating into the minds of people in this and other countries which makes them see a Communist front in everything which opposes their entrenched privilege. The moment that they find a card carrying Communist affixing his name to a list which supports, fosters, instigates, promotes or initiates one of these movements, they deem it sufficient reason to (ay a blanket charge on every one associated with that movement as being a dupe of the Communists or a fellow traveller. It is sufficient reason for them to condemn as antidemocratic everything that is said by the movement, because they have seen the antidemocratic actions of Communists. 
In the name of sanity let us have no more of these regressive and destructive smear tactics which try to identify every progressive move to restore humanity and equality in South Africa or anywhere else as one that is trying to reverse the order of privilege in our social system. I, for one, am not trying to reverse the order. I am just trying to even it out a little. I do not want the dictatorship of the proletariat or its vanguard, or rule by any person who so styles himself. All I want is a little fair play, a fair go and a little equality. If that is talking like a Communist front, then I atn a Communist and the honourable member for Boothby can similarly be judged to be a racist. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 11.9 p.m. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to warnings of a scientocracy in a book. 'Perils of the Peaceful Atom' by R. Curtis and E. Kogan. 
If so, will he make an early statement on precautions to be taken to prevent, or at least to assess, the costs and benefits of the Jervis Bay reactor plans as compared with alternative power projects including (a) the risks of a major plant accident (however unlikely) and radioactive ore transport leakage pollution, (b) radioactive waste disposal techniques and their long-term effectiveness, (c) environmental ecology, (d) the cost factor of safety provisions and (e) the independence of the Atomic Energy Authority from profitability motives or influence. 
How will the borrowing, interest payments and  cost  of power production at Jervis Bay be offset and bow will the financing procedures differ from those of the Gladstone power house project. 
In the brief few minutes I have available I wish to deal with the question of sovereignty which not only bears on this Budget and, I suppose, on every Budget but is the warp and woof and the stuff of governments everywhere at all levels. It is the basis of law and order which seems to be emerging as the main topic of the Budget debate. Sovereignty is applicable at many levels in our community and elsewhere. There is personal sovereignty which is traditionally disrupted, destroyed and impaired by other levels of sovereignty such as government. For example, it is my personal view that a woman should have sovereignty over her own body in matters concerning the birth of a child. To this end I want to draw attention to the draft Criminal Code for the Australian Territories which will make this much more difficult. Section 1 16 reads: 
Subject to the provisions of Section 40 of this Code: 
Any person who, with intent to procure the miscarriage of a woman, uses any means whatever, is guilty of an indictable offence. 
Any woman who, with intent to procure her own miscarriage, uses any means whatever, is guilty of an indictable offence. 
Section 40 provides: 
A person is not criminally responsible if he gives, in good faith, and with reasonable care and skill, surgical or medical treatment to any person for his benefit or performs a surgical operation upon or gives medical treatment to an unborn child for the preservation of the mother's life, if the treatment is reasonable, having regard to (he patient's state at the time and to all the circumstances of the case. 
In other words such operations are to be limited to means to preserve the mother's life. This is a retrogressive step. Section 82 of the Crimes Act 1900 states: 
Whoever, being a woman with child, unlawfully administers to herself any drug or noxious thing; or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means; with intent in any such case to procure her miscarriage, shall be liable to penal servitude for ten years. 
Section 83 provides: 
Whosoever unlawfully administers to, or causes to be taken by, any woman, whether with child or not, any drug or noxious thing; or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means, with intent in any such case to procure her miscarriage, shall be liable to penal servitude for ten years. 
The key word is 'unlawfully'. When I was attending lectures in medical jurisprudence I was taught and it was the general opinion among the practicing gynaecologists in the teaching hospitals in the British Commonwealth at that time that it was lawful to perform such an operation to terminate a pregnancy not only where there was a risk to the mother's life but where failure to do so would render her a mental and physical wreck. That was the position about 25 years ago. I think we should have progressed a little in this time. I place on record the main provisions of the United Kingdom Abortion Act of 1967. This provides that a doctor may terminate a pregnancy where he and another doctor are of the opinion, formed in good faith: 
that the continuance of the pregnancy would involve risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of injury to the physical or mental health of the pregnant woman or any existing children of her family greater than if the pregnancy were terminated (and in determining whether the continuance of a pregnancy would involve such a risk of injury to health, account may be taken of the pregnant woman's actual or reasonably foreseeable environment); or 
that there is a substantial risk that if the child were born it would suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped. 
This last point has been accepted widely by gynaecologists and obstretricians. Many of them, in the absence of any more sensible, sane and humane directive from the law, have performed abortions in cases where the child may reasonably be presumed to be abnormal, deformed or affected, for example, by rubella or german measles. 
Not only in the medical field has personal sovereignty been invaded by governments. This is the reason why moves have been made at all levels - in this Government, in State governments and at international level - to preserve some of the rights of the citizen. I shall list some of these rights. One is the right of peaceful assembly, which we have seen threatened in this country. The term 'forum* is a Roman one which refers to a city square or the streets. This was the place where political differences were thrashed out. But when people take to the streets for a political reason, for political persuasion, in this country it is looked on as backward, retrogressive and undemocratic. We are told: Take your argument to the ballot box'. There are several issues on which people may wish to go to a public forum. One of them could be the plight of the farmers in Victoria. They have taken to the streets on this issue. Another one may be to demonstrate their loyalty to the Queen. They have taken to the streets on this issue, lt may be that the pensioners or the nurses of Canberra feel they are not receiving a good hearing from this Parliament. They have taken to the streets on this issue and have held their banners outside this building. Whenever this is done certain people see a sinister motive and a disintegration of democracy when all that is happening is the preservation of the age old right of peaceful assembly in the ancient tradition of democracy. This right should be written into the United Nations Charter of Human Rights and every other charter of rights. It should be written into a Bill of rights in this country. 
Another personal sovereignty relates to the right of petition for redress of grievances. We know how little this applies in this country. In Switzerland petitions are not just presented, received and read as they are in this Parliament. If there is enough of them the electorate can recall a member with whom it is not satisfied. A referendum can be demanded on an item of legislation. There is no mechanism through the ballot box for this to be done in this country. There is no forum in the ballot box. I know it is fashionable on the other side of the House to say that we have a public forum in the Press and in other public media. That is all very well for those who have it. We are very pleased with the gentlemen of the Press and television who invite us to take our chance to speak to a wider audience than we could ever hope to get in this chamber, even on broadcasting days. We are very thankful for this, but democracy should not hinge on an invitation by those who control our public media. 
There are some people who cannot afford a half an hour a week on television. I know that there are honourable members in this House who can but there are very few of them and I do not think that there are any left on this side of the House. There are very few in this House who can afford to run the sort of advertising campaign that some firms, in which honourable members opposite have a very lively interest, are able to conduct. It is very largely the advertisers in the Press who decide what editorial policy will not be. I do not say they dictate the editorial policy but to a large extent they dictate what editorial policy will not be. For example there has been no real effort in this country to stamp out cigarette smoking because this is a very lucrative source of advertising to the mass media. We should not believe that we have free speech and that we have a free forum in this country for everybody. It is free for those who can afford to have it. Freedom of speech in publicity is something that is not good enough and it should be extended. 
Another freedom of the individual is due process before deprivation of liberty or property. We had stated last night in the debate on the motton for the adjournment an example of the false specification of charges. Tn this case the court had dallied in an unjust way in deciding a question of contempt of court. The matter of access to legal counsel was raised. These things were referred to by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  last night. Another item is that of prompt trial by jury and citizens. This is a right that has not been very much impaired in this country. However, it is something that ought to be spelt out in international conventions so that it applies universally. The right of appeal to a higher court after original jurisdiction was also mentioned. There are also the following matters: No excessive bail and no cruel, unusual or capital punishment - we still have capital punishment in our federal law and also in one State; and freedom of creed and conscience, free nomination and secret ballot in United Nations elections amongst others. We should have personal sovereignly at that level as well as everywhere else. 
Families have their own rights. Again, wherever rights and sovereignty exist, there will also be duties. We have to be prepared to curtail these rights. I am not arguing against law and order at one level just because I am asking for rights at another level. The rights of the head of a family to decide what his child shall eat. what sort of medical attention he shall have, what sort of education he shall have and so on are curtailed - and rightfully so - by the laws which safeguard the rights of the child. These laws are deficient, as has been made evident in medical circles recently by the incidence of the battered child syndrome. Occasionally these cases get into the papers when a child dies. There is a need for the community at large to be more concerned about the rights within the family group without trespassing on the sovereignty of the family. 
One of these cases can be dealt with now by bringing in laws to provide for the taking over of the economy of a family when the person in charge is irresponsible. This is a cause of much hardship, suffering, sickness and social disabilities of all kinds where for example a breadwinner in a family is an alcoholic thereby causing extreme suffering to his dependents. This has largely been corrected in Holland by the appointment of a trustee to safeguard the income and assets of such a family to see that they are properly applied. It does not have to be at the hand of bureaucracy. It does not have to be a government official or, if you like, creeping socialism. It needs human concern. Very often the trustee appointed in Holland is a near relative. As some of the families just do not have the facilities to do this themselves the community should take an interest in their position and assist them. 
Another unit of sovereignty concerns the tribe. This goes back to the old stone age which we still have in this country for some of our citizens from whom we have taken away tribal sovereignties. A tribe has no right any more to make laws or to decide issues. There is no such thing as -the rights of a tribe. Perhaps this is all very very well. I am one who is inclined to say that only people have rights and that government and state rights are just cloaks or devices to deprive people of rights. Surely the people who live in a tribal setting, who depend on the tribe for their personal selfrespect and self-esteem, for their future outlook, and for their security and harmony in the world, are entitled to the bare minimum of environment which the tribal arrangement can so secure. They are entitled to a bit of land. 
The Aboriginal people are very peaceful people and one of the least warlike on earth. Perhaps one of the reasons for this is that wars are always centered around territories. Australia was the one continent on earth where the problem of overpopulation was solved before it had begun. There was no shortage of territory. The tribes in Australia very rarely went to war. They had well defined territories. Within these territories the elders met together and decided on the extent of their initiation operations which produced relative infertility at the time of puberty. These initiation operations varied in their extent according to the number of children being born in a tribe, the state of the climate and the food production. These primitive stone age people without a civilisation had solved the problems that we have growing bigger and bigger today and are at present unsolved. They did not have unwanted old people. They had no juvenile delinquency. They knew exactly their place in the universe. Their folklore had passed on to them the stories in terms of the spirits and so on, of what belonged to the different kinds of food, and the different types of products which they used to make weapons, clothing, and so on. We have disrupted all that and we have given nothing back to them. We have not given them even the self-respect of being able to bring themselves into the white man's culture and raise a few goats on their own land. 
I have not sufficient time in this debate to go into the difference between regional and State and national sovereignty. 1 want to speak briefly on supranational sovereignty because this is the twenty-fifth year of the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations which was drawn up to prevent war became obsolete in the same year in which it was approved. In those matters which cause disputes between nations we must transfer sovereignty to the supranational level. I have mentioned this before in this House. I urge all members of this House and all honourable senators to be present at a meeting, to be held at 7 p.m. on Tuesday next, of the group of world parliamentarians for a federal world which has been formed in this Parliament. This is something which has to be pushed all around the world. More than 9S% of the members of Parliament in Denmark belong to this group and many of the large nations have big groups for this purpose. It is time that Australia's voice was heard in this connection, as it was in the formation of the United Nations when  Dr Evatt  gave the lead to the nations, small and large. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Do larger capital investments tend to propagate their kind by producing higher rates of profit due to economies of size, work force specialisation and monopoly? Will the Prime Minister implement the Keynesian principle of public control of such profit promotion and capital propagation by imposing a supertax on excess profits leaving Australia to be diverted to consumer, community and employee equity in these large enterprises? 
asked the Minister for 
Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What amount of Customs duty was 
paid by or 
exempted in respect of specific industries associated with 
caustic soda 
soda ash (Hi) chlorine and 
related products in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage of duty-exempt caustic soda is used for alumina production. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he consider having consultations with Australia's principal trade partners with a view to promoting the adoption of the perpetual calendar as from New Year's Day 1973, as proposed in the House of Representatives Bill no. 274 of 3 January 1969, in the United States of America. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  who has just spoken has done his best to convince us that the action of the people who have launched the Moratorium or who have taken part in it is designed to kill and murder and prolong the war in Vietnam, that we are a party to' the whole thing and that we are therefore more to be condemned than the Government which has sent troops there to a war which is not of Australia's making or doncern and into which Australia was not dragged. The Government which we support in Saigon has had 8 coups d'etat since November 1963. It has also had one election. 
It had one election to which I am going to refer. After it that Government said: 'Democracy and democratic parliamentary government are now established in South Vietnam'. Objections were raised to the conduct of and irregularities in this election and a committee was set up to investigate it. It reported that the election should be declared invalid and another election held. 
I am not supporting the North Vietnamese and I am not sending troops over there to fight for them. I am not sending aeroplanes over there to bomb people. You are the people who are sending arms and killing people by the millions in support of a government which I am discussing. I am not backing up any Communist government. I do not want totalitarian government here or in Vietnam but I do not think it is our place to decide what kind of totalitarianism the Vietnamese have. It is their place to decide and if they cannot decide under a parliamentary system it is not our place to see that they decide it by force of arms, which is what we have done. For the information of honourable members opposite I point out that 40 United States senators have come out and declared themselves in opposition to the involvement of their country in the war. So it is not just Australian parliamentarians who find that this is an obnoxious and inhuman sort of thing to be indulging in. 
And long live democracy as long as we can have this sort of dissent from the sort of thing that is going on. A retired Lieutenant General, James M. Gavin of the United States, who lives now in Massachusetts published in the Saturday Evening Post' the following statement which I have confirmed with him personally in a letter over his signature: 
Top Pentagon leaders' wanted to invade North Vietnam after Dienbienphu fell, but instead decided to back a 'new South Vietnamese government' . . . 
This is LieutenantGeneral James M. Gavin, retired. 
He is not too retired to send me a clear and accurate account of this. What is more, he said that this new South Vietnamese government would be in violation of the Geneva Agreement. He said further: 
This decision was made because President Eisenhower vetoed the Joint Chiefs of Staff plan to invade the Haiphong and Hanoi area after the French defeat. 
He continued: 
This veto in turn was because of former Army Chief of Staff Matthew Ridgway's strong opposition to invasion. As the situation worsened at Dien Bien Phu, the French in desperation, asked us (the. US) for carrier strikes to relieve the enclosed garrison. 
The whole approach to this involvement has been a military one, an economic one - not one of defending democracy or human principle. These are the trappings in which it is dressed up. These arc not the facts one finds when one goes to Vietnam. I have placed on the notice paper a lot of questions about this matter, asking the Government why we are there and what the evidence is to support the specious reasons the Government gives. 
I drew attention to a report in the Melbourne Truth' of 16th March which contained descriptions of tortures of alleged 
Vietcong captives by allied troops in the presence of the Australian captors. I asked the then Minister for External Affairs whether he considered that the Australian authorities should take steps to prove or disprove the apparent drift of Australians into the attitude of indifference that most Germans took towards Nazi concentration camp atrocities, because these tortures took place in the presence of the Australian captors. The reply of the then Minister was: 
The Government does not accept the implication that there is an apparent drift of Australians to attitudes of indifference to matters of this kind. 
In other words, he sidestepped the perfectly legitimate and humane question that I put to him: Will the Australian authorities take steps to prove or disprove this apparent drift? The Minister was not interested. I asked the then Minister for External Affairs: 
Which of the following practices or conditions have been reliably reported to him as occurring under (a) Communist, and (b) anti-Communist Vietnamese authorities: 
imprisoning those who propose political co-operation with military opponents: 
arrest without prompt public trial; (Hi) summary execution for indictable offences; 
restricted adult franchise; 
legal protection for exorbitant rentiers; 
civil service corruption; 
censorship of - 
dissent from established authority, and 
statistics of military losses: 
legal immunity for - 
patrons and employers of prostitutes, 
drug pedlars, and 
exorbitant monopolies; 
financial barriers to basic education for alt children; and 
any other practices or conditions which would indicate shortcomings in a democratic society. 
Which of the above practices or conditions have been mentioned, and in what terms, in communications from Australia to other nations? 1 was asking for evidence of democracy. I do not accept the word 'democracy' at its face value just because some friendly government says it. Just because a government is against Communism does not mean that it knows what democracy is. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  will speak in this debate and he is perfectly competent to speak for himself on this subject 
I have asked him, and the honourable member will have his chance to ask him. The then Minister for External Affairs said that the Government of South Vietnam was in essential respects democratic. He did not refer to one of the points 1 mentioned in my question. He said there was legal provision for various democratic freedoms. These are so interpreted in practice as to result in democracy there. But in North Vietnam they are so interpreted as to result in the negation of democracy. I am not discussing the democracy of a Communist Government. I do not want a Communist Government. I would not accept it as a democratic government. That is the sort of story the Government is trying to force down my throat because it does not want to listen to the facts. It refuses to listen to the criteria of democracy. 
The Minister said that some real progress had been made towards the establishment of a democratic society in South Vietnam and that under the constitution in South Vietnam individuals have the right to a prompt and public trial. Has the Minister never heard of the tiger cages? To give him his due, he had not heard of them at that stage, but he was not interested in finding out. He said: 
Reports indicate that these provisions are respected. 
He made no reference to whose reports they were and no reference to how he got hold of them or what steps he was taking to confirm them. He claims and deplores that in North Vietnam those deprived of the rights of citizenship cannot vote. Is that not exactly what happens here? He said that prostitution is prohibited and that fines and imprisonment of up to 1 year can be imposed. He said nothing about the people promoting prostitution, as I asked him. They put the prostitutes in gaol thinking that will solve the problem. I have not the time to go into the nonsense that comprises the answer to the rest of that question No. 1 149 and to my rational, sane request for a rational, sane description of how a democracy works, how one asseses it and how one finds out whether it is more democratic or less democratic than a Communist regime. 
I asked the Minister, in question No. 1081: 
Will he take steps to establish by due process beyond doubt to uncommitted persons that Australia is not a party to illegal methods of warfare? 
The Minister gave a long answer to some of the other parts of my question. In reply to the question whether the due process of proving that we are not breaking international law is by way of appeal to an independent tribunal or authority to establish that we are doing the right thing, his one sentence was: 
It is already widely known that Australia is not a party to illegal methods of warfare. 
That was his answer. That is supposed to be an answer for a democratic Parliament and the forum of this land to enable it to find out whether we are committing war crimes. 
I also asked the Minister: 
Have any approaches been made to the Commonwealth Government by persons in . . . Thailand, South Vietnam ... or in Communist countries for . . . military or other help in defence of their democratic rights? 
One would think after all the statements we have had justifying the sending of troops over there that the Minister would have said yes. Is there anyone on the other side of the chamber who would have thought for a moment that the Minister would have said no to that question? His full answer was: 
The Government has no record of approaches in recent years in these terms. 
So much for the concern of the Minister for External Affairs about a legitimate question as to why we are spending $ 1,800m on this wasted and useless war which is turning people into corpses and Communists. I asked the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in question No. 787: 
Is the Government's professed military aim in Vietnam to foster democratic processes? 
Part of his answer was: 
The Government has also made clear that it would not be appropriate for it to comment on the internal affairs and processes of a friendly government 
That is the sort of democracy we are fighting for. It is not appropriate for us to prod and pry into how they run their affairs. That is an internal matter, as South Africa's apartheid policy and Rhodesia's policies are internal matters. In the 'Congressional Record' of 31st January 1966  Mr Aiken  said: 
I well recall General Ridgway telling me after a hearing one day that if we sent 2 million men into the Vietnam area, they would be swallowed up. 
They have sent half a million- 
Now conditions are different from those in Korea, where we had relatively nearby bases and short supply lines. 
I will not go into that. It shows that at least some of the people over there knew that they were going into a morass. In the Congressional Record-Senate' of 21st February 1966  Mr Monroney  said: 
Between that time and the fall of Dien Bien Phu in May of 1954, our $2.6 billion worth of military and economic aid to the French in Vietnam paid for 80 .per cent of the cost of the war against the Vietminh. We were already quite heavily committed in the Truman administration; the help we gave them soared higher as we drew closer to French collapse; but to his credit, there was a reluctance by  President  Eisenhower to make the massive effort some would have liked for him to have made then. In 'Mandate for Change' General Eisenhower has written of this period, when the people supported the Vietminh in their fight against the French and saw Ho Chi Minh as their hope for independence: 
The enemy bad much popular sympathy, and many civilians aided them by providing both shelter and information. The French and the Bao Dai regime could not draw support from the people, and they could not induce the regular Vietnamese soldiers to fight with any heart on their side. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for External Affairs. Has he seen reports of a United States Presidential Commission under  Mr Henry  Cabot Lodge which advocates that for the United Nations 25th anniversary next month the United Nations peace keeping machinery be strengthened, that inefficient institutions be reformed, and that international law be strengthened particularly to deal with environmental change, drug abuse and hijacking? Will the Minister prepare a statement for this anniversary outlining Australia's policy on strengthening the elective, legislative, judicial and executive functions of the United Nations to extend the rule of law and order internationally? 
 I rise, prompted by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  to enlarge on the problem of handicapped children. As the honourable member has rightly pointed out, there is a need for more diagnostic facilities. These are urgently needed for the children he mentioned and for many other handicapped groups, because very often the handicap is discovered too late to give them the benefit of the attention they need at the time they most need it. I want also to stress the point that remedial teaching should not be merely initiated, planned and carried on by voluntary organisations with subsidies. Nowadays there are so many kinds of specialised disability, not only the specific learning defects that the honourable member mentioned but the ones that have been with us for such a long time - crippled children, spastic children, subnormal children, the blind, the deaf, and the blind and deaf who are now having special facilities which are more expensive again, the multiple handicapped children, the special classes in children's hospitals and autistic children. These are multiplying. Every year we hear of a new group, and the incidence of these disabilities is amazing. When these groups have been operating for a few years it is found that there is a far more extensive need for their services than was at first believed possible. 
With regard to subnormals, for instance, there was a time when it was believed that there were only certain groups - the imbecile level and the moron level if you like, the higher grade, and the medium grade defective children who could in any sense be trained or educated. But through the work that has been carried out at the Newcastle institution it is now realised that short of the actual vegetable - the child who is practically completely helpless and who has a mental age of 6 months or less - these people can be helped by a more positive and productive approach. All credit must go to the New South Wales Government for developing this work during the last few years. However, the point is that it is no longer possible for the general population to sustain these multiplying demands on charity and on the time of charitable workers for all these separate organisations. These are specialised fields which require and demand full time professional, expert and public assistance. It is not right that they should have to rely on handouts. 
I know that it will be said that the Opposition is always asking for a bit more money to be spent on this and that. Unfortunately what these critics overlook is that a lot of these things do not cost; they pay. The outstanding example is the one raised by the honourable member for Kingston. These children are made social wrecks and are cast on the social scrap heap. Very often they are discontented people, very often delinquents, sometimes criminals, and always misfits or for most of their lives misfits, for the simple reason that they have not been able to break through the literacy barrier. They have not been able to get the initial jump off which would allow them to continue education in any of the capacities they may have. Nobody knows what these capacities are because the basic essential of most schooling is lacking that is, literacy. 
I  want  to bring out one more point on  the  question of literacy and that is that dyslexia in particular is a disease of English speaking countries. It is a very serious condemnation of English speaking countries that they have done nothing about this point. The spelling of English is the worst in the world with only one other contender,  that  is, French. But English and French are the only 2 languages that are so archaically spelt. We do well to compare the progress of children who are taught in Spanish, Italian, Russian, German, Malay or other languages which have  more  or less phonetic or logical spellings. The child in the English speaking country has to spend between 1 and 2 years of his  schooling in learning spelling as a subject.  This does not happen in other countries. While a child in an English speaking country is struggling agonisingly through his first year at school with sentences like the cat sat on the rag mat', the Italian or Mexican child is reading fascinating stories that appeal to children. Whether or not they are fairy stories, they deal with words of 5 syllables and take them in their stride words which are familiar to them. That child can immediately pick them up because he knows his alphabet within 3 weeks. When he knows the alphabet he knows how to read. 
English speaking countries should do something about this. I give credit to the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  for at least taking the first step because he has agreed to bring the matter up at discussions with representatives of other English speaking countries with the idea of something being done about our atrocious, criminal and archaic spelling. Other countries have done something about their spelling and it can be done here. 
I commend to honourable members who are interested in this subject a practical and feasible way of going about it They should read a book written by a Canberra resident called 'Spelling Reform, A New Approach. It was written by a person named Lindgren and it is available in the Parliamentary Library. It shows how this can be done at once. It is being done. It does not depend only on governments because the author has shown that it can be done at once in this way. A person who adopts his method simply changes the spelling of one sound in the English language. There are only about 40 basic soundsin our language. If you correct one of those sounds at a time it does not matter whether you take 5 years or 10 years to get that first sound generally accepted then the other stages can be brought in later. At the foot of any article you write at any time you can always put SRI' which means 'spelling reform step 1', or 'SR2' and so on as the different stages are agreed to. The author has put a most cogent case for adopting as the first stage the spelling of the vowel sound in the word 'egg' by using the letter 'e' wherever it occurs in English. 
I have adopted this routine in letters I write to Ministers and in other things. An editor of an educational journal has adopted it in the last few weeks. Even before that it was adopted for all editorials in a teachers' journal and it is still being used in that way. Various newspapers, including the 'Australian' and other prominent Australian newspapers, have accepted letters written in this way when requested to do so. A journey of 10,000 miles starts with one step. Let us give the children one sound in this language of which they can be sure. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Are films of demonstrations or information obtained from such films used to convey information to counsel or courts in cases unrelated to such demonstrations? Are such films destroyed when it is decided no court action relating to the demonstration is pending or likely? Will he confirm that the description of an accused as a 'known demonstrator' in court proceedings unrelated to demonstrations is prejudicial and subversive of natural justice? Will the Prime Minister assure the House that flags, flagstaffs or instructions made by an unruly minority sponsoring demonstrations are not accepted by the Government as evidence of the motives, actions or aims of individual participants or the official sponsors of the demonstrations, including honourable members of this House, who repeatedly have made it clear that they oppose violence in Australia and in Vietnam? 
The estimates for the Department of Health have been criticised ably by my colleagues. The plea by members of the Government in reply to our health proposals, as always, has been: *Where will you get the money?' The Leader of the Opposition in another place has answered this ably in his reply to the Budget speech. I want to enlarge on his specific suggestion that our war budget should be replaced by a peace budget. Then not only would we be able to find the funds necessary for ancillary services such as optometry - I remind the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  that the Government has promised to provide for these - and not only would we find that we could make up the deficiencies that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mentioned in our health services, namely care for the needs of those with chronic illnesses in nursing homes, but also we would be able to foster and investigate adequately the work of pioneers in health care who are being fobbed off by academics and medical journalists and, I fear, also to some extent by the National Medical and Health Research Council which has made some rather perfunctory investigations into the work of  Dr A.  James of Wollongong on asthma. I refer also to the work of  Dr Skyrme  Rees of Yeoval. I do not think they have fobbed him off but I think it is time that the Government's attention was drawn to his work on nonhazardous minor surgery for chronic back pain. I am hoping that we will be able to present evidence of his work before the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
I believe that the debate on the estimates for the Department of Health is the right occasion to discuss the war budget for the following reasons: On 1 5th May last the Minister for Health offered me the services of a very able psychiatrist to advise me on the psychiatric difficulties of policy makers as contributory causes of war. As no further initiative came from him, I telephoned his parliamentary office to arrange an interview with the very able psychiatrist. The office later telephoned me saying that he was not very able to help and that I should contact a social psychologist. 1 did not pursue the matter because I feet that the Minister does not take seriously the preamble to the United Nations Economic Social and Cultural Organisation Charter, which states that as war begins in the minds of men it is there that the foundations of peace must be constructed. In fact on 15th May the Minister, in reply to my question as to whether Australia has subscribed to this principle stated: 
I  have over the years been most interested in the types of theories about the causes of war which have been alluded to by the honourable  member.  [ have myself, however, never been able, although  I  have studied them, to take them very seriously. 1 agree that they must be given some weight but as single causes of war I do not attach very much - importance to them. 
That is what I am protesting about tonight, because I feel that this is the major health problem for every nation, particularly a nation involved in a destructive war as we' are. 
Fortunately, since that time there has been a report to Australian parliamentarians by a leading social psychologist, a man in this very field that was recommended to me by the Minister's office. He deals with a specific example df this problem, namely, the motives for our fighting in Vietnam. The psychology lecturer,  Mr Gavin  Sinclair, of the School of Applied Psychology of the University of New South Wales, made this statement as a contribution to the Vietnam Moratorium in May. This month he circulated a copy of this talk to honourable members m which be makes the following points: The 
Liberal and Country parties and supporting splinter groups not only support Saigon's war, which he explains as a reaction to ideologies, but also opposes the activities of the peaceful majority of demonstrators as well as the unruly minority of demonstrators. At the same time some members of the Government go out of their way to excuse the unruly behaviour of other minorities which oppose the Moratorium less peacefully. The Government's aim is to help secure, by -negotiation, peace with self determination for the people of South Vietnam." They are the Prime Minister's words. 
To desire this while still prosecuting the war is to to assume that the Hanoi regime and its southern allies will be cowed or converted by force as, for instance, the Malayan rebels were. The Communist forces and their allies have offered to stop fighting if non-Vietnamese leave Vietnam and the principles of the Geneva settlement are restored with a more broadly representative Saigon regime. This offer is regarded with such suspicion that it is thought safer to go on fighting than to accept it or put it to the test. This, of course, is the tragedy of all wars. While neither side trusts the other and both sides refuse to take their case to any higher commonly respected; tribunal there can be no start in constructing peace. For the 7- years of the war the inexhaustible United States has dangerously depleted its economy and every year has declared that victory is near. They are still declaring it. Meanwhile our allies have developed the world's most sophisticated and costly nonnuclear methods of obliterating all Vietnamese not settled or compulsorily resettled in secure areas, which form a minority of the area of their country. They have prostituted, bereaved, uprooted and demoralised many of the others who are not in the so-called secure areas. We espouse the idea of conquest of corruption, by confinement or by killing every friend and foe among the peasant majority with which the insurgents identify themselves and whom Saigon's client Government patronises or, worse still, exploits and oppresses. 
The reasons put forward for such physical conquests are these: Firstly, there is an externally Communist inspired aggression which it is always proper to resist because it is Communist, irrespective of the moral status of the opponents or the immorality of the means used to resist. It does not matter how tyrannical the other side is; if they are not Communist it is all right to support them and their tyranny. It does not matter how kind or human a Communist regime may be or whatever good points can be found in it, because it is Communist it must be treated as all evil. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - I remind the honourable member that we are debating the estimates for the Department of Health. I ask him to relate his remarks to the estimates before the Chair. 
I will do that briefly, as I did at the beginning, by saying that the biggest deficiency in the estimates for the Department of Health is the lack of money to do what is essential to this nation to restore health and to promote health. The biggest public health problem is the act of war in the minds of men, particularly in the minds of honourable members who make the policies of this Government. This is the most unhealthy thing that has happened and this is the main deficiency in our health budget. 
The second reason that is given for such physical conquests is that we must be involved with America in Asia to encourage American involvement here if we need it in the future. That is, we can shame some future United States government into giving us effective military protection by giving some token moral or immoral support to the present United States Government. This policy is similar to that of encouraging foreign investment in relation to which the Prime Minister described Australia as a puppy on its back. 
The third reason given for this insane involvement is that if South Vietnam turns Communist, this will make it progressively easier for adjoining countries, including Australia, to turn Communist. That is, it is better to fight them - whoever 'them' are - over there than here. These three reasons are the only reasons given by our war supporters for the war. But what would a man from Mars think looking on at this war and seeing what is happening in Vietnam about our motives- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the estimates for the Department of Health which are before the Chair. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I am attempting a psychiatric examination of the insanity that promotes our health policy in the biggest public health question of our time, which is the killing of humans in body and in mind, destroying their health- their physical and mental health - and their future. If that is not relevant to the estimates for the Department of Health, 1 would say that all the other health matters are trivial compared with it. 1 trust that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  will see that this is relevant to the estimates of the Department of Health. 
If we see someone eating ravenously, we may infer that he is hungry. If we see a couple kissing passionately, we may infer that they are sexually aroused. It we see a boxer struggling to get up, we may infer that he has been attacked, If we see a country and its people blasted with bombs into craters, its children and its civilians killed by chemical bombs, its crops and its countryside ruined and its houses burnt and destroyed by these methods - that is, by mass produced destruction - we may infer that some ariborne force has attacked it. 
The conscious motives may be as pure as the gold in the Mace at the foot of the table. But this is not the point. The purity of motives does not save us from the villainy of the effect. The argument that the superior force is there to save the country is clearly a rationalisation as it was for the Nazis who tried so fruitlessly to rescue the Poles, the Czechs and the Ukrainians and others with the help of bombs and gas chambers. The deeper motivations involved in war are based on fear. What we do know of Vietnamese Communists and their allies is we know very little as far as their motives go. We do know that, like the Saigon Vietnamese, they persecute, kill and destroy their political opponents. We also know that they have a different ideology of political economy from that of affluent capitalist countries. 
Australian war supporters do not know any more than that about them. Australian war supporters believe worse than this of the Communist soldiers. They see them as worse than this. They see them as monsters of evil whose only aim is, according to the uncompromising words of the Prime Minister: 'Conquest and nothing but conquest' - that is, much the same aims as a visitor from Mars would see in our activities in Vietnam and as each contestant in a war sees in the other side. This fear is based on a lack of familiarity. 
The war supporters, never having dared or managed to speak on a basis of human equality with Communists, see them as massively more powerful than the rest of us. These wily 10 foot tall aliens are impervious, they feel, to reason, compassion or compromise. This inhuman stereotype is very like the popular nation of a Capitalist for the simple Russian who has never seen one. The Russian thinks of the Capitalist in exactly these inhuman and monstrous terms of which the members of the Government think of Communists. If the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has done no other thing for the world's socieity, we should, above all, record with gratidude, his courageous efforts on behalf of world sanity to get Communist leaders to this country so that we can see whether they are 10 foot tall or to see whether they are human beings who can be reached by reason, by compassion and by compromise. The war supporters have had the young of this country for 10 years to 20 years of their lives, imbibing their text books, their editorials, their commercials, their documentaries and their censor-scanned fiction founded on a clear cut judgment of our establishment as justice and other systems as being malevolent. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the Government negotiating with Japan ese wool buyers regarding low wool prices without similarly approaching other buyers who buy some two-thirds of Australia's wool. 
Is he able to say whether any discussions have occurred between Australian merino wool exporting interests and those in South Africa or South America to set floor prices; if so, what were the results. 
What estimates are available on the probable savings to growers by the adoption of a single marketing and storage authority as was done during two world wars to the satisfaction of governments, growers and consumers. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What sum specifically for capital expenditure has the Commonwealth (including its banks) in the last financial year (a) spent, (b) transferred as grants or loans direct to (i) State, local or semigovernment authorities, (ii) autonomous health, education and welfare organisations and overseas recipients and (iii) private industry, including all compensation and capital subsidies and price support to private industry except by way of relief of temporary natural disasters, and (c) received, as grants or loans, from other countries. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government spend $14,000 yearly at the instance of the late  Dr H.  V. Evatt to subsidise the United Nations Association of Australia. 
Hashas amount been varied; if so, when and to what extent. 
Does this Association provide Australians with a sufficient awareness of the actions and inadequacies of the United Nations and its prospects for development as a law-making and lawenforcement organisation of the citizens of the world in matters affecting world peace, civil rights, economic development and the conservation of man's environment. 
Is he able to say what was the membership of this Association in 1950, 1960 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he consider referring to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration, the United States Bill proposing the adoption of the The Edwards Perpetual Calendar from New Year's Day .1973, as at present referred to the United States Congressional Committee on Foreign Affairs and recommended with supporting arguments in (a) House Resolution No. 79 adopted by the Territory of Hawaii on 28th April 1943, and (b) resolutions memorialising the Congress of the United States to adopt The Edwards Perpetual Calendar, adopted by the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on 6th February 1952. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is there a federally registered fire fighters' union? Has it been dented registration in Queensland although it has a growing majority of the fire fighting unionists in that State? Has a recent industrial dispute been determined against members of that union by a panel of three, one being a principal party to the dispute and opposed to the unions, and one a representative of the rival union that is the only one recognised by the Queensland Government? Will the Minister use his good offices with the Queensland Government to encourage a review of the increasing causes of discontent of the fire fighters in this matter? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. Is it the view of the Malaysian Government that the question of the admission of Communist China to the United Nations should be determined by a simple majority vote at the United Nations? 
 I wish briefly to enter the debate. Firstly, I wish to commend the Minister for Social Services and MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  or his Department on calling a conference at Townsville of 60 Aboriginal representatives throughout Queensland. Some very constructive proposals were put up for ameliorating the problems of Aboriginals. Briefly, the conference proposed the setting up of an elected body representing Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on a regional basis to take over the administration of their affairs, their welfare and also the disposal of government finance. If this is done I think most members of the Opposition will be very satisfied. If these suggestions are carried out we will be very satisfied that the Commonwealth is carrying out its mandate to look after Aboriginals and not leave things as they are at present in the hands of a most repressive and feudalistic system which exists under present Queensland law. In fact, I think this goes back before feudalism. Aboriginals in government settlements live in what could be called virtually a system of slavery. 
Not only are Aboriginals suffering under the disability of a lack of appreciation by Europeans of their native culture and their intense feeling for their tribal lands and areas but also from the impact of a particularly vicious kind of capitalism which is exemplified by the Vestey company, which has been well described in a little booklet on the subject. This booklet, which was published recently under the auspices of Abschol describes conditions in the Northern Territory. I think it is high dme the Minister had support from the Cabinet and from this party to assert that the values that are important to Australians are not those represented by Vestey's which is getting land for a few cents a square mile, but the interest of human welfare. All the human soul and human aspiration is being killed by this sort of inhuman exploitation not .only pf the land but of the Aboriginal people who- are attached to the land and who feel that they are part of it.  1 have not heard anything particularly derogatory about Aboriginals from members of the Australian Country Party in any of the debates, but I have heard some very condescending remarks made by fairly well .off graziers who have used Aboriginals on their properties. They have assured rae in lofty fashion that 1 know nothing about this subject because I have not lived with Aboriginals. I have quoted to them what has been told to me by schoolteachers in my area who have pointed out that Aboriginals do about as well as white children in their classes. In fact, a teacher told me that one Aboriginal was top of his class. I said: 'What will happen to that lad when he leaves school?' The schoolteacher said that he would become a fettler or a drover. I said: 'If he is top of your class, is he not university material and why will he not go to a university'? The teacher said: Well, they seem to lose interest when they get to about school leaving age, which is about 14 or 15 years'. 
Why do they lose interest? Do they lose interest because suddenly some biological change occurs under a black skin that does not occur under a white one? This is not so. But a lot of people who exploit these depressed people seem to have the impression that there is something biologically different and that Aboriginals cannot adapt and cannot use the white man's culture and the sort of values that are used by white men to progress and improve themselves and succeed in a white man's culture. But this has been disproved by the adoption of Aboriginal babies in infancy by white families which treat them as their own. In fact, the first Aboriginal graduate who was a Bachelor of Arts was brought up under these conditions 20 years ago. There was no special thing that made him different from other Aboriginals except the fact that he lost his natural parents and was adopted by white parents who had the means and the inclination to treat him as their own. This gives the lie to all of those grazing families who have told me that there is a difference and who have said that you cannot get rid of the call of the wild. 
One of these families quotes the case of a girl to whom they said they gave the same advantages as they gave to their own daughter. She went to the same school and the same Sunday school. They gave her the same training in how' she should behave and how to keep herself clean. They taught her manners and how to help around the house. But she went walkabout when she reached her teens. At the age of 16 they found her with one baby and pregnant with another sitting in the dirt with a derelict Aboriginal with flies crawling over them. But she was happy. No-one can tell me that she got the acceptance, the affection and the security in that white household that she received from that man sitting with her in the dust by his humpy. If she had received it she would never have deserted that household. She was supposed to have been treated exactly the same as their daughter was. The only difference, of course, was that she was not their daughter and was not treated as their daughter. She was treated as an assistant, a maid servant, a servant who had to be grateful for the opportunity which was given to her. But she would never be accepted as one of their family in the sense of marrying into the sort of community in which their daughter moved. This was never even thought of. She was not thought of as a human being but as an appendage of humanity who should be grateful to be recognised as an appendage. Fortunately, I believe it is no longer the view of members of the Government that this is right and just, but unfortunately . they have not followed up their enlightened view of Aboriginals as human beings with potential equal to that of white people, by giving them equal opportunity and that is the whole point of our amendment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he supply information as to the last estimated annual return to Australia from mineral, including fuel, industries in the form of (a) royalties, (b) taxes on dividends paid (i) overseas and (ii) in Australia, (c) company and payroll taxes, (d) taxes on over-award salaries and wages, (e) ex gratia or charitable donations primarily for the use of Australians and(f) capital gains to Australian shareholders. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he confer with the State Ministers with a view to introducing legislation (a) similar to that announced by the United States Government requiring air bags in all new cars from 1st January 1972 and (b) requiring (i) nape supports, (ii) safer seat anchorages, (iii) safer door latches and (iv) petrol tanks resistant to puncture and ignition in new vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will containerised beef exports from all Queensland ports be railed to Brisbane, some of it past Port Alma, Australia's major beef port, which has been equipped for container shipments at local expenses and on local initiative. 
At the same time will incompletely loaded Australian National Line coastal ships be passing and calling at Port Alma. 
Is the preference for rail transport over coastal shipping due to (a) fair costing and competition between the ANL and Queensland Railways, (b) restrictions placed on the ANL by Commonwealth agreement with the overseas shipping conferences involved, or (c) by uneconomic rail freights being accepted by the Queensland Government. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon  notice: 
What (a) interest, (b) redemptions, (c) revenue, (d) grants, (e) gifts and loan moneys has the Commonwealth (including its banks) in the last financial year (i) paid to and (ii) received from (A) State, local or semi-government authorities, (B) autonomous health, education and welfare organisations and overseas aid recipients and (C) private interests, including interest paid to overseas lenders less Australian tax thereon. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his Department made an appraisal of export prices charged for alumina for the purposes of company tax assessment, considering that the purchasers are mainly foreign firms which own Australian alumina work. 
If so, has this appraisal considered competitive world prices and public incentives provided for Australian production including (a) rail freight and electric power rate concessions, (b) double taxation agreements, (c) caustic soda import duty concessions, (d) harbour dues and (e) land and water rates, etc 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Are television films checked for subliminal advertising. 
Can this type of advertising be monitored or controlled. . 
If so, what action has he taken towards such control. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many poultrymen have been (a) registered and (b) prosecuted for breaches of the Poultry Industry Levy Collection Aci 1965-1966, since the commencement of the Act. 
How many prosecutions have been made under each charge laid. 
What has been the value of (a) collections under the Aci, (b) uncollected levies written off and (c) fines collected. 
What have been the costs of enforcement of the Act, including inspection, court costs and publicity. 
asked  the  Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an Australian Associated Press report of 14th October of a speech by the South African Prime Minister in which he claimed that he needed arms lo withstand a planned Communist terrorist onslaught as well as to keep sea lanes open. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the claim of a former South African naval gunner in the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund's Sydney Newsletter for October 1970 that an officer instructed him and others that their chief function was to oppose all Africa, except Rhodesia and Portuguese colonies, to prevent persons escaping and terrorist landing in southern Africa and to act as marines to defend white civilisation in Africa in the case of a black uprising. 
If his attention has been drawn  &gt;.o  these reports, will he. in view of their importance, make a statement indicating the attitude of the Australian Government to the British policy of supplying naval arms to South Africa. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he state in his Press release No. 96 of 15th October 1970, that some 90 per cent of Australia's capital resources are provided by domestic savings. 
If so, is he able to say what are the estimated percentages involved in (a) dwellings, (b) public securities, savings accounts and fixed deposits, (c) non-equity commercial investment and (d) equity investments which have doubled their value in the past 6 years or less, assuming maximum capital growth options are availed of. 
Is he also able to say what are the corresponding percentages of the approximate 10 per cent of capital from overseas sources. 
Can he give comparable figures for each Australian territory. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has he received requests from a  Dr KentHughes  who examines applicants for invalid pensions to (a) provide a 50 per cent pension for slow or part-time workers, (b) ease the rule penalising work by invalid pensioners, (c) reduce the rate of disability required to qualify for a pension from 85 per cent to 75 per cent, (d) remove the rule that the nature of the work must not be considered, since a lost limb or a bad heart can make a labourer but not a clerk unemployable, and (e) make the pension adequate for those needing continuous nursing. 
Will these requests be considered when formulating the 1971 budget or a supplementary budget to increase the purchasing power of pensions beyond their present declining levels. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to state the estimated cost to governments in Australia of all (a) chest hospitals and clinics, including mass X-ray surveys and (b) cancer hospitals, clinics and research units. 
If so, what was the estimated cost during each of the last 3 year's for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (.1) Are certain antibiotic pharmaceutical benefits not produced by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
If so, which are they, and what is the reason for not producing them. 
What is the current cost of antibiotic benefits manufactured (a) by these laboratories and -(b) by other firms (i) in Australia and (ii) overseas 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What proportion of the present cost of antibiotic benefits ls attributable to non-generic prescribing.  able member's question is as follows: 
S5.1 per cent of the present cost of antibiotics prescribed under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme is attributable to non-generic prescribing. 
am asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn lo claims of manufacturers that generic' ' prescribing of antibiotics produces inferior results. 
. If so, is he able to say what pharmacopoeial, pharmacological or other reputable indicators there are to justify these claims. 
Will he consider setting statutory criteria comparable, to those of' the-' British Pharmacopoeia to define the relative effectiveness of various preparations and the factors .involved in producing such effectiveness 
Where those factors are industrial secrets, will he require their formulation wilh the normal patent protection on the grounds that medical treatment is not a proper sphere for giving commercial advantage priority over the dissemination of scientific findings. 
asked the" Minister for Health, upon notice.'' 
What change occurred in the cost to the Government of antibiotic prescribing between the last month when  the  listed maximum quantity prescribable as a pharmaceutical benefit  was  16 tablets or capsules with  no  repeats  for  most broadspectrum antibiotics  and the  third month thereafter. 
What was the change  in  this cost for the corresponding periods 12 months earlier. 
Do other prescribing figures indicate a seasonal factor in the above comparison; if so, what are the estimated changes in cost corrected for such seasonal factors and price changes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does Issue 4 of the Bar List used on Trans-Australia Airlines include 9 brands of cigarettes. 
Is he able to say whether according to the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria, the 9 brands include some with a tar content of up to five times as high as other brands. 
Will he disclose the grounds on which brands are listed or excluded. 
Will he recommend to the airline that the tar content in milligrams per cigarette for each brand be included on the Bar List. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
Does the Trans-Australia Airlines Bar List, Issue 4, include 9 brands of cigarettes. 
Is it a fact that 3 of these brands are manufactured by South African firms. 
If so, should these products be boycotted in conformity with United Nation Resolutions. 
lt gives me pleasure to affirm and commend the remarks which have been made in this debate by my predecessors on this side of the House namely, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  whose electorates adjoin my own. I wish first of all to reiterate briefly and expand upon one or two of the points which they made. The first point is in relation to the question of the costs in the industry. It is true that 2 of the commonest complaints that cane growers make about costs are concerning fertiliser and spare parts for machinery. The racket, shall I say. in spare parts is not confined to rural industries; it is world-wide. For example, the Japanese sell a very cheap motor scooter in South East Asia, but if one were to make a similar motor scooter from the spare parts which they sell one would be paying 10 times as much. This sort of thing has become common practice in machinery manufacture. Once one can get somebody to buy one's machine by selling it cheaper one can. recoup the difference by selling the spare parts at a dearer price than they should be. The position has got to the stage where the sort of regulation tb/at members on both sides of the House have been describing in the sugar industry is necessary. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  said that they do not accept -the fact that the sugar industry is a socialised industry. I think this is vital to our consideration not only of stability in rural industries in particular but also of the inflationary problems we are facing. It involves the application of subsidy and tariff provisions in industries other than rural industries. I think 1 should clarify the concept of socialisation. Socialisation does not mean, as the honourable member for Fisher suggested, state control of industry. This is not a definition in any dictionary that I know of, including any political dictionary or encyclopaedia. Socialisation means social control. If a person wants to talk of state control or country control he calls it nationalisation or state capitalism. Socialisation means control by the society in the interests of the society, and this is exactly what we see in the sugar industry. 
The honourable member for Fisher described it as control by the industry, but he spoke also of the co-operation of the industry with governments. He stressed it. The fact is that there is not control by the industry; there is a partnership between producers and the representatives of the consumers. That is the acme of Socialism and that is what the Australian Labor Party stands for. This is the only human approach to any industry. If it is to be run in the interests of a bureaucracy, of a party in power, of a government, of investors in the industry or of consumers without regard to the people involved, it is something which is known as 'capitalism' or 'Communism'. It certainly is not Socialism because it is not controlled by interested people in the society in the interests of society. So let us get that straight. 
The stability of this industry is not just due to co-operation in an economic sense but to co-operation in a human sense. We look at the needs of growers and of people involved in the industry as well as of consumers. The question of the 35-hour week was raised by 2 of our friends from the Country Party who appealed to members of the Opposition to use their good offices with the employees in the industry so that the employees should not push for a 35- hour week. The honourable member for Wide Bay answered this by pointing out that this is a matter for arbitration - for a decision as to when and how an industry can afford to provide rates of pay and conditions rather than a matter for a Labor Party government to pass legislation and say: 'You must work such hours and under such conditions.' As a matter of fact, to some extent, if a government did legislate for a 35-hour week in any particular industry the rates of pay would still find their own level. It does not matter terribly much if a person is cutting cane for 20 hours a week or 50 hours a week because his rate of efficiency may actually be greater per hour if he is working a 20-hour, week and getting paid overtime for the balance than working a 50 or 60-hour week. This is not a vital point as such. I agree, and my Party agrees, that to introduce a 35-hour week into any rural industry now would be disastrous and wrong. It would not help the employees, the consumers or the employers. We have not advocated a 35-hour week as a means of solving the problems of rural industry because we know it can contribute nothing at this stage in history. 
We have already discussed the question of efficiency in the industry and 1 think that all sides of the Parliament are agreed that it is a highly efficient industry in terms of productivity per man hour and in terms of the price of the finished product on world markets. It has been almost unique in proving that the white man can produce in the tropics a product under labour intensive conditions which are, of course, being phased out with the great technical innovations in the industry. But it is not only a matter of technical development and innovation: it is, to a large extent, also a matter of the philosophy which drove the workers in that industry when it was labour intensive to compete fairly in conditions of free competition. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I pointed out how the sugar industry is a model of socialisation - that is, not national ownership, not national dictation, but control by the people involved, the consumers and their elected representatives co-operating with the producers for the welfare of society as a whole - and how it is a model for all other industries to follow. We in the Labor Party have been strenuously advocating, as basic Labor Party philosophy, such a system as the only answer to problems of price inflation and others with which we are particularly concerned today. To drive home the point that such a system is a means of controlling price inflation, we have only to cast our minds back to what speakers on the Government side said when they stressed the price stabilising effect of the co-operative planning in the industry. They stressed not only that there is price-fixing for the products sold on the home market but also that there is international planning of prices in co-operation with consumers and producers throughout the world. What is more, as we can see from the schedule to the Bill, clause 8C, the price fixing extends even to the related fruit industry.' 
Concessions from the yugar industry to the fruit industry are dependent upon reasonable prices in that fruit industry. The logical step to take would be to extend the system to all the other related industries, and to extend it to the prices, about which the farmers are complaining, of fertilisers, of spare parrs and of machinery. One of the biggest pities about the position in the machinery market is that the farmers cannot rely on the quality of the local product. Although these farmers are pioneers in evolving better machinery - they are giving ideas to the machinery industry - they have to "buy from overseas markets. The industry in the United States of America is looking at our cane harvesters and other equipment, yet the farmers cannot get the Australian machinery manufacturing firms to make products as reliable as the ones that they can import from the United States of America. They cannot get the service and the reliability, so they are paying enormous tariffs to get machinery from overseas. 
This is not the American method of doing things. The Bell and Howell firm, which manufactures home movie equipment, used to have the bulk of the world market. I am citing what the firm did, to contrast its enterprise with the lack of initiative in the farm machinery industry in Australia. The Bell and Howell firm found that the Japanese were undercutting that firm and selling a higher quality product more cheaply. Foremen ,and heads of departments were called together and told that the .firm would go out of business unless lt could produce a machine that threaded the film, had a zoom lens and so on. About 20 features that had to be built into this home movie equipment to recover the firm's lost place on the world market were enumerated. Each of the heads of the departments said that it could be done. They were told that the product must sell for less than $50. They held up their hands in horror and said that they could not do it. Within 3 months they were doing it. 
This is the lesson that I think Australian secondary industries should take not only from secondary industry in America but from our own rural industry which is fighting, with very little support, the pressures of inflation and so-called over-production. Our secondary industries must become as efficient as the sugar industry so that tariffs can be phased out without putting people out of work or without causing more dislocation than there is at present. Australians can do this. Again I point to the labourintensive position of the industry which I was discussing prior to the suspension of the sitting. Europeans proved that they could compete in the tropics, doing hard work, with people of other races who were thought to be the only ones capable of cutting cane. Our cane cutters worked on a piecework or contract basis. The teams were paid according to the amount of cane they cut. The teams policed the efficiency of members of the teams. If a person wanted to be a member of a good team, he had to work well. This was the basis of efficiency. This was a kind of free competition. 
This is done in America on a far wider scale in many other industries. It is done in the coal industry. The coal miners in the United States produce twice as many tons per shift - about 14 tons per shift as against 7 tons per shift here and about 1 ton per shift in the Soviet Union. Similar results can be achieved here if these types of criteria is adopted. It will be said that this is sweated labour and that we do not want to go back to the days of sweated labour in cane cutting or mining or any other industry. Of course we do not. We want men who are not able to compete openly in the intense cut-throat conditions of open competition. 
The honourable member referred to the days of Kanaka labour. We do not want a return to those days. We do not want sweated labour, but we want reasonable competition, with protection for those who fall toy the wayside, so that they are not cast on the scrap heap of the unemployment market. I know that I have strayed a little wide of the contents of the Bill, but I have merely given an illustration of a suitable industrial policy which has been adopted in the sugar industry. 
The Bundaberg area produces 16 per cent of Australia's sugar, lt is one of the traditional sugar-producing areas and it is one of the longest and best established areas, but it gets the least benefit from irrigation. At least two-thirds of the area is dependent upon reasonable seasons, yet it has the most unreliable and most unpredictable seasons of any of the sugar-growing areas. It falls, as it were, between 2 stools, between the dependable monsoon rains in the north and the dependable winter rains in the south. It is in the in-between area, and producers have been changing over to beef production, which can stand a couple of dry seasons. The pattern in central Queensland is not that of the odd drought that lasts a year or so, which is so devastating in the southern States, but of 3 dry years in every 10. When these 3 dry years follow each other or when half a dozen follow each other, as they have in the last decade, this can be disastrous. Therefore it is more urgent there than anywhere in Australia to spread the effects of rainfall and drought, particularly in industries which cannot stand 24 months or more without a decent wet season. Therefore it is most urgent that the area have a water conservation scheme. I reiterate what I said when the Commonwealth made money available for the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. It is most urgent that the project be extended to encompass the whole scheme requested by the Queensland Government and that the scheme be not a piecemeal one. There are some avenues in which we think we can save money by reducing government expenditure but which in fact involve us in expenditure whether we make purchases or not. One example is water conservation and another is education. If we are to cut down on some of these essential long range projects we will have to pay for them over and over again because of the shortsightedness of saving money this year or for the next few years. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister  for  Health, upon notice: 
Has he received information from  Mr E.  Friend of the Radar for the Blind Club. 110 Rathdowne  ' Street, Carlton, Victoria, that ultrasonic waves can be projected on to and reflected by obstacles and translated into audible frequencies in such a way that blind users of the appropriate equipment can distinguish adequately the site, size and surface consistency of those obstacles after a few weeks' training. 
If so, will the Government arrange for investigation of the claim that this equipment has certain advantages, especially in cost, for several purposes, as compared with 'seeing eye' dogs. 
Did the Minister for Labour and National Service state on 7th October last that employers must not try to widen profit margins unreasonably simply because the market situation is such that they can get away with it? Is such a market situation inevitable or do the governments concerned decide the degree of restraint on unreasonable profits and capital gains when productivity or sales volumes increase? Will he spell out to employers the case for restraint and acceptance of arbitration by those concerned and for economising in government services and concessions just as strongly where profits are rising as he does where wages are rising, and, in particular, will he denounce the irresponsible foreshadowed moves of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Limited to raise steel prices when its profits and capital gains are well above those of most employers? 
 In response to suggestions in Parliament this week by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  that I had advocated degrading and mutilating operative procedures on certain classes of people, and by the Minister for Social Services and Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  that I would compel such procedures, I strongly denied advocating compulsion. Because this matter has received extensive publicity in my electorate, I want to put down the facts as I see them. 
Certain types of desirable welfare assistance which should be given to physically, culturally and/or socially handicapped persons in this modern, affluent society are not available here and would be less effective if recipients were to continue to enlarge families which they admit are now too large for them to care for. I understand that some States of the United States of America have made certain benefits conditional upon the recipients adopting foolproof means of family limitation. I would oppose such conditions if they were to increase the hardship to the existing members of the family. So, clearly, I would advise not an increase of penalty but a decrease of the existing penalty imposed on people for producing children. I would oppose any penalty which would deprive of urgent needs those who now exist miserably on the scandalously inadequate services provided under the unfeeling policies of the Ministers own department for such persons, but I would advocate certain conditions for the receipt of certain other benefits which could not in fact be so beneficial if- the family- -continued to enlarge - for example, priorities for certain classes of public housing. .  - 
I have not spelt out dor have 1 considered in detail a hypothetical situation in which such priorities ' should be provided because the fact remains that all types of public housing in' this country are totally inadequate and very few families occupying such housing 'have anything more than the very minimum standard of living, so such a restriction or condition would not arise because it would impose hardship. I want to make it quite clear that I would oppose the -introduction in this country of compulsion of trie sort introduced in certain States of '.the.' United States of America. I point out that, in the State which I come from arid the honourable member for Kennedy conies from and where the State Government is led by the honourable member's own' Party, the Government imposes much harsher conditions upon tenancy of public housing, such as banning long-staying visitors and eviction if payments cannot be met. Iri the Duaringa shire, which was referred to by the honourable' member and the Minister, it appears that the policy ot the State Government is that housing- contractors building urgently needed State housing for Aboriginals should be allowed- to walk off the job for several months in order to do some other more lucrative job. In the meantine the Aboriginals are living out in the bush in the wet season in humpies amongst bogs and using one- tap which was put there after my representations to the shire to save them having tq go and raid the tank at the local school. This is the sort of degrading penalty which is imposed on these people not for the number of children they have but simply' because they have not the means to meet ' the cost of decent housing; because they have not the political pressure to demand better treatment; because they have not been accepted in the community by the shire and State authorities, and because they do not have the moral backing as yet of ' the Commonwealth Government, whose primary responsibility it is to ensure that they have decent living conditions. 
I am not going to go into the question of whether, in this day and age, certain people should be induced, persuaded or compelled to undergo . the procedures which have been referred to in such horrific terms by the honourable member for Kennedy. I am just going to point out that there is a very trivial out-patient procedure which does not require getting undressed, which can be performed after the administration of a local anaesthetic, which does not require time off work and which is becoming rapidly more popular in Australia as it is in India and other countries, lt is anything but mutilating and degrading, and it has been cheerfully paid for, sought out and recommended with enthusiastic satisfaction afterwards by certain prominent members of the Government parties whom I would not name without their permission. This procedure avoids the more costly, more inconvenient, more uncertain, more uncomfortable and sometimes hazardous practice of husbands using their conjugal rights to put a bit of compulsion on their wives to take the pill. Let me assure the House that there are husbands who, on their own admission, believe they are entitled to require their wives to do this; yet I have been accused of talking of compulsion when I have suggested certain procedures for the benefit of recipients of social welfare. 
I reject any suggestion of compulsion. My aim is to free people from the compulsion to produce children for which they do not plan and for which they cannot provide. My aim is to improve their quality of life. However, my critics seem to be bent on twisting my intentions as if I would extend welfare as a kind of Nazi racial dictatorship. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a students' page in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 27th October 1970, entitled 'Getting over the Language Barrier', describing English as a language without spelling rules and commending Lindgren's evolutionary spelling proposal for the sake of migrants and others. 
If so, will he obtain and table in the House an authoritative appraisal of this proposal and discuss its possible implementation with the Minister for External Affairs. 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  has revealed a tendency that is all too apparent in the policies of the Government when faced with a national crisis and a national problem. Government members look at the letter of the law. They read the fine print and they say: 'Well, we have done everything that was required of us, because there it is. We have followed that logically and responsibly'. The Opposition does not look at it in such simple terms. 
We do not look at it in such simple terms. We are prepared to be logical and responsible beyond the fine print and the matters laid down in the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs referred to in the matter before the House. We are not just concerned with the printed matter in th:it survey. We read between the lines. We read beyond it. We look at the actualities to which it refers and the actual conditions of the schools and of education in this country. We do not look just at what is spelt out in the limited view apparent in that document. The Opposition believes that those deficiencies are revealed to someone who can read the document imaginatively and not just quote sentences out of it. If we are going to deal with the matters that have led to this request for urgent aid then, as the honourable member himself said, we have to look for more details. Why these additional funds are required and why these urgent needs are developing must be spelt out. 
The honourable member's answer is: 'We have written to the States'. This is an irresponsible reaction. It is not good enough to say, as the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said: 'We believe in a Federal and State partnership where the States have got to play their full part. They are not playing their full part'. This is the whole reason for the urgent situation that has arisen. We are appealing to the Commonwealth to take more of a lead in this matter. It is no good saying: 'We are partners and we cannot do anything until we get an answer to our letters. We cannot act on the answers to the letters before we get more details'. The Government should be pushing, crying out and screaming at the States by all possible means to see that this situation is attended to, to be sure that it gets the details, lt is the same old stopgap excuse of passing the buck, as was done this morning when it was said that there were too many questions on the notice paper and getting the answers was using up the valuable time of the Public Service. 
This sort of 'do nothing approach' on the part of the Government is the reason for the existence of the Opposition. We are trying to get the Government to do something. The terms of reference of the survey were approved by the Commonwealth, as the honourable member for Warringah said. Of course they were approved by the Commonwealth. There is nothing in them that could disturb the Government's serenity. The survey follows the same old pattern of the Budgets that have been prepared by taxation departments for. the last - I do not know how many - hundred years. The administrative structure is referred to on page 3 of the report. What great imaginative planning that shows. The Government is going to investigate what is needed for the administrative structure. The next item referred to is teaching staff. Previous speakers from this side of the House have referred to the hopeless situation there. There is less being spent on teacher training than in the previous year because the States cannot see their way clear to take up the Commonwealth money to increase teacher training. They cannot train the perfectly good people offering themselves for teaching. Other items referred to are ancillary staff, buildings, land, equipment, pre-service education of teachers, in-service education, scholarships, provision of textbooks and transport. But nowhere is there a basic reappraisal of education needs, methods and philosophy. So we will continue to be saddled with the same sort of ways of spending money; we will not be given a more efficient way of educating people by using new methods and new approaches. Perhaps it is not the function of this kind of a survey to do this but nevertheless it is the function of the Department of Education and Science to look at such a survey in the light of devising more efficient methods and to act on it in that light. Other countries appear to be capable of doing this; yet the terms of reference of the committee precluded it from examining such new methods. It should not have been so excluded and this Government should see that it goes into other points that were not covered in the survey; for example, the amount of expenditure on education per head and the proportion of public spending on education in different countries. In the United States from 1962 to 1965 the expenditure per head went up from SUS145 to $US189 and the proportion of public spending increased from 16 to 19 per cent. Although the United States is having trouble with a major war, the most costly war it has ever fought, it was able to channel 19 per cent of public spending into education in 1965, which was the last year for which figures were given to me by the ex-Prime Minister. That was in answer to question No. 940 which appeared in Hansard of 6th March 1969. As far back as 1961 Sweden was spending SUS90 a head, or 13i per cent of its public spending, on education. In Czechoslovakia expenditure on education increased from $US76 a head in 1962 to SUS91 in 1965. 
They have no doubt included quite a number of things that we do not include in our figures but these are as close to comparable figures as the former Prime Minister could obtain. I know that Czechoslovakia is the most advanced of the Communist countries in its education policies and programmes and in the proportion of educated people that it has. It has, for instance, more doctors per head of population than we have. That is why I asked specifically for figures for Czechoslovakia. In 1962 Japan was spend- ing as rauch per head on education as we were - $33 - but that represented more than twice our percentage of national expenditure. Japan's proportion of national expenditure was 23 per cent compared to our 11 per cent. In 1965 our percentage had grown to a little over 11 per cent whereas Japan's had remained at roughly 23 per cent. But by 1964 Japan was spending $44 a head, the same amount as we spent one year later. We were falling behind the Japanese rate of increase. I will not quote the figures from some of the other countries, but this is the sort of comparison the Leader of the Opposition is criticising. This is the sort of inquiry that ought to have been included by the Government in the nationwide survey of educational needs and in the terms of reference of the committee. It is not only the professors, the pedagogues and the politicians who have been protesting about this situation but also the Press. On 19th August last, the day after the Budget Speech, 'The Canberra Times' said: 
A major disappointment in the Budget was the lack of realisation by the Government of the deterioration of the State education systems. 
The 'Australian' of 23rd June last year recorded dissatisfaction among teachers, saying that more than 11,500 of Australia's 90,000 Government school teachers were expected to resign in 1970, and that they represented about 12.5 per cent of the total Government teaching forces. The article then gave the figures for the different States. 
The situation is one of crisis and the position is worse this year than it was last year, with the lack of adequately trained teachers and the increasing use of stopgap teachers. The Commonwealth Government's answer is: 'The States do not answer our letters. They do not give us enough details.' This is not good enough and the survey of educational needs should have been a spur and a whip to get the Government doing something more than giving the answers it has been giving for years and which the Australian people are getting heartily sick of and will no longer tolerate, as they will demonstrate at the next general election. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the 'Courier-Mail' of 17 October 1970 by Professor Indorf, an eminent United States educationist, criticising the stagnation in Queensland's education system and pointing out lack of progress since his previous criticism in that newspaper in 1963. 
If so, will he assure the House that the Professor's detailed recommendations have finally been duly considered by those Queensland and Commonwealth administrations responsible for submissions to the Government on educational planning and policy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What (a) loans at current interest rates, (b) grants, (c) search subsidies or (d) taxation concessions, including depreciation allowances, has the Commonwealth given in each State and Territory towards mining or other rapidly expanding projects and their infra-structures where these projects have been financed mainly by (i) Australian and (ii) overseas capital, in the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amounts or assistance have been contributed by the Commonwealth Government in each of the latest 3 years for which figures or estimates are available by way of subsidy, tax exemptions or other financial assistance to non-profit, non-statutory organisations concerned with (a) military, paramilitary and related activities of military value, including cadet corps, gun clubs, flying clubs and ex-service organisations, (b) community welfare, including education, non-industrial science, health, emergency services, home help and institutional care and (c) sport, physical recreation and physical culture, including the Boy Scouts Organisation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister seen reports that patients in Victorian mental hospitals may be locked up on a roundtheclock basis as a result of staff shortages and overtime restrictions arising from the Government's anti-inflation campaign? Has he evidence that similar measures may be taken in other States? Do the hospitals involved include those constructed with Commonwealth funds and those treating repatriation patients? Will he immediately take steps to see that such hospitals are not used by the States in an inhumane manner? 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has made it clear that the rise in the buying power of pensions has been much lower than the rise in average earnings during the life of the Menzies Government, the Holt Government, the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government. This is easily seen from the figures presented by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and which appear on pages .1 164 and 1165 of the day before yesterday's Hansard. We find there that the Labor Government raised the' real value of standard pensions at the rate of 1 per cent per year. That means that the actual amount of the pension was rising 1 per cent faster than the cost of goods on the consumer price index - faster than prices rose. Immediately the Menzies Government assumed office from the Labor Government on a mandate to put value back into the 1, the value proceeded to go out of the 1 and out of the pension. 
Within 14 months under the Menzies administration its value fell as low as 83c in real buying power below the pension level maintained by the Labor Government. This was due to the unchecked, and consequently accelerating, rises in prices. The rise in prices occurred at a faster rate than under the Labor administration, lt was 7 long years of the 225 years that we have experienced under the coalition Government before the 1948 Labor Government's pension rate was restored. Since that time, increases in social services, including the increase presently proposed - I am not talking about pensions as of now but with this general increase of 50c - have remained at approximately the same level of 1 per cent a year. This is equal to the increases granted under the Chifley Government during a time of austerity. In fact, the married pensioner couple will still receive less than a 1 per cent increase a year. This is the achievement of the Government that the honourable member for Griffiths  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has just told us is so concerned about pensioners. Yet over 22 years it has not managed to achieve anoverall increase in actual buying power. The Minister's figures show that it has maintained the same percentage rise a year for pensions as did the Labor Government. 
On his accession to power the former Prime Minister, who has recently become Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  announced the emergence of a new philosophy in relation to pensions under the Liberal Party.  His  Government was going to provide for frugal self-respecting independence for pensioners, as distinct from its former philosphy of helping out the relatives and charities by means of pensions. This philosophy was in very marked contrast to a statement which was made very shortly before by the then Prime Minister's predecessor,  Mr Holt,  during the preceding general elections.  Id  response to a question at the opening of his Parly's campaign in Capricornia,  Mr Holt  stated in Rockhampton that pensions were never intended to be the sole support of pensioners and that it would be a sorry day for Australia if the younger relatives did not take their share of the burden of maintaining the pensioners. This is in direct contrast and contradiction to the philosophy put forward by his successor, and it is in direct contrast and contradiction to the philosophy put forward by the honourable member for Griffiths who has delivered his speech and left the chamber. However, I give the Holt Government credit for the fact that that statement, had the merit of being candid. 
During the period from 1964 to 1968 the Holt Government lowered the standard rate and the married rate of pensions by roughly J per cent a year, it reversed the trend. This is substantiated by the figures presented in Hansard by the Minister for Social Services. The Gorton and McMahon Governments have restored that leeway and brought us back to the same old trend of increasing actual buying power by 1 per cent a year. But, of course, the point is that average earnings are rising at double that rate. They are rising by roughly 2 per cent a year. As we heard in the debate on productivity, Australia is managing to increase production by 2 per cent per year per head of population. But over the 22 years under the coalition government pensioners have managed to gain an increase of only 1 per cent per head of population. That is the reason why we on this side of the House keep harking back to this point of average earnings. 
If productivity increases then the people who are responsible for that productivity increase ought to share in it, and many of the people who have made this possible over the last 22 years are now dependent upon the Government for justice which they are not getting. The Government should reward them in their retirement, in their incapacity, in their old age, in their widowhood. The reward they are getting is not in proportion to the rise in productivity that they have helped to produce. The net effect of this grand, new philosophy is that the Gorton and McMahon Governments have added an extra 3 per cent, or less than 50c a week, to the pension. This is the only departure from the old 1 per cent per annum rise in the real value of pensions. The Government has restored the 1 per cent per annum rise and put another 50c on to it at the last minute by this Bill. 
Why has the Government suddenly become so magnanimous? 1 do not doubt that this is a step forward and that it will be followed by a bigger rise in August, but we are not deluded into thinking that it is a result of this new, so-called enlightened Liberal philosophy. It is a direct result of an unprecedented, outraged outcry from the public and a revulsion among all classes of the population against the delay and the niggardliness in this regard. Several prominent citizens, including members of the clergy and the judiciary, took part in establishing a completely new movement to demand justice for pensioners. It was a non-party movement. This has never happened before in history. This and the fact that the Government was very nearly tossed out at the last general election are the reasons why the Government has had another look at the politics of the situation. It is not a new, heart-rending philosophy at all; it is the hard facts of political life which have forced the Government to look towards justice in this field. 
Government members have cited to us the rates of pension applying in 1947 under a Labor government. Of course, if one goes back far enough one can dig up all sorts of things and prove almost anything. One of the things which the Government ignores when it goes back to 1947 is that everybody else has achieved a better standard of living since that time. A far bigger proportion of the people now have homes with refrigerators, cars, hot water services, sewerage services and so on. There is a far bigger proportion of people who will now be dependent on the pension who were able to afford those things during their working life and are now finding i! difficult to afford them. I refer particularly to television sets and other things which have almost become necessities of life due to the greater prosperity of the world in this technical age. We cannot expect the 1947 figure to relate to present circumstances. It is unrealistic and unfair to expect it to. Yet some of the speakers in this debate have taken this very point. They have sneered and said: 'Look at what Labor did in 1947'. That was a time of austerity after a world war. Honourable members opposite are comparing that period with the highly technical age we are living in now when all sorts of people have a much better standard of living. 
AH the items that I have mentioned, such as refrigerators, hot water services and sewerage and so on, are now included in most people's ideas of what is a frugal and self-respecting independence, to use the term proclaimed by the recently retired Prime Minister. In bringing this blessed word 'productivity' into the debate the Minister implied that wages had risen faster than productivity - that is, the wage earners' share had grown faster, on the average, than the value of the goods and services produced by each Australian. But several eminent economists have shown that it is necessary, if justice is to be done and if the wealth is to be fairly distributed, that wages increase at  a  faster rate than productivity. This point has been brought out in the debate and I do not want to labour it. The economists have also pointed out that prices and profits are rising at  a  faster rate than wages. It is not the wage earning sector that is contributing in the main to the unusual rise in average earnings. The Treasury's own papers will confirm this. 
As my colleague has interjected, the taxes are going up in proportion, and more than in proportion, to the rise in wages. I do not want to delve into these details when we are not debating productivity, but these bare facts ought to be stated to give the lie to the contention of the Minister that wage rises are the big engine and profit rises are the small engine in this matter. The situation is the reverse, if we are to accept these figures from the Treasury and from leading economists. The honourable member for Griffith made 2 other points that deserve a mention. He quoted one of my colleagues who had complained at the lack of social service benefits for a deserted wife in the first 6 months after she is deserted. He said that the honourable member had not done his homework or was trying to pull the wool over our eyes because the States provide for these people and the Government provides a $1 for $1 subsidy. My colleague was not denying this. Perhaps, he was remiss in not spelling it out for the honourable member for Griffith. All. he was saying was. that this is a Commonwealth responsibility and that if it is fair for such people to have the support and concern of this Parliament after 6 months then it is also fair for them to have the same support and concern during that first 6 months. I understand that in the case of a de facto wife who is deserted there is not even a 6 months limit. She remains dependent on State finance and is a State concern for ever after because she did not take the precaution, could not afford or was not wise enough to go through a form of marriage. So she will remain dependent on the charity of the State government. 
Or she might have been the innocent victim of bigamy. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said that the Government cannot raise the money for the sort , of thing the Opposition wants without raising taxes He said: 'Where will we get the money?' Of course, we have answered this question many times. Let me answer it once more. First of all, let us see what answers the Government has to the question. Where did it get the money? The Minister has indicated that it was necessary, as a purely human and understandable impulse on the part of the new Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon) to mark his accession to that post, for him to do something in the way of a 50c rise for the poorest group of pensioners, those on the lowest total incomes. I suggest that this is rather an expensive way to mark such an accession. I do not know how many millions of dollars are involved in the 50c rise, but it would be several millions of dollars. We were not told where the money came from. We were not asked where we were going to get it. The decision was made to celebrate the Prime Minister's accession to power. Let us have these celebrations more often. Let us celebrate all the musical chairs on the front bench opposite with a 50c rise for pensioners if the money is so easy to come by. 
One of the places to get the money is from increases in average earnings because if the productivity of this country is rising by 2 per cent per annum and if the rate of tax is rising faster than that - which it is, because higher incomes go into a higher tax bracket and taxes will be increasing by more than 2 per cent per annum - then we say that pensions can go up by 2 per cent per annum. If in 1947 a Labor Government could pay over 25 per cent of average earnings as the pension rate, there is no equitable or honourable way in which a government in this affluent society, in this lotus land as  Mr Holt  called it when he reduced the buying power of pensions, could justify paying less than 19 per cent. The money is there. It does not have to be found. It is already in the revenue. 
It does not matter whether that money is being spent on something else, whether it be a defence vote of $ 1,100m or SI, 200m a year - and not so many years ago the defence vote was about one-fifth of that amount - or whether it be on particular aspects of the defence vote such as the purchase of Fill aircraft or of guided missile destroyers from America at 4 times the price at which they could be made here. Whatever that money has been spent on is not the point. The point is that, after a devastating war, a Labor government managed to pay 25 per cent of average earnings to pensioners. Now the Government cannot manage 20 per cent. At the moment the pension is less than 19 per cent of average earnings. The Government stands condemned for its hypocrisy in this matter because all the time it is shedding crocodile tears and speaking about its concern for pensioners when in fact pensioners are being left further and further behind in the race towards the prosperous world of the future. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will he inform the House as promptly on the situation in East Pakistan as did his predecessor regarding similar events in Tibet? Will he use bis good offices with our ally in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation to try to restrain the escalation of violence as a means of restoring national unity? Is Australia, as a member of SEATO, committed to assist Pakistan if, as alleged, the conflict involves outside intervention on the side of the rebels? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
As those who are unwilling to acknowledge obligations under the National Service Act, which may involve them in military action overseas, consider such action to be illegal because (a) the war is undeclared and Australia has registered with the United Nations no public treaty with successive Saigon regimes, (b) the only authority competent to determine breaches of international law in Indo-China and to authorise force in remedial action by outside powers, signatories of the Geneva Accords, is the International Control 
Commission, (c) Australia has not first sought, as required by the United Nations Charter,  all  possible peaceful means of settlement which include asking  all  powers involved to sign the Accords and to petition and submit all matters in dispute to the determinations of the International Control Commission, the International Court of Justice and United Nations instrumentalities and (d) there are reasonable grounds for presumptions that the Thieu Government came to power in Saigon due to massive foreign aid and maintains power by corrupt procedures and the Lon Nol faction threatened certain key members of the Cambodian Parliament to obtain a near unanimous vote ousting Sihanouk to offset his increasing international support, will he publish refutations in answer to these claims. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill in the sense that we think there should not be protection for public places, for public representatives and for diplomatic representatives. Our objection is rather with what the Bill fails to do. The Opposition objects to the fact that this Bill has been introduced at a time when many other pressing matters require attention. It is true as the then Attorney-General said in his second reading speech that much of the existing law on assemblies is archaic, diverse, difficult to find, difficult to apply and imposes absurdly grave penalties for minor breaches. However, it is rather strange that in making his point he referred to laws which went back to the 12th century and which are still on the statute books in this country. After all the vicissitudes which this country has gone through - 2 world wars and a depression - one would wonder why it has suddenly become necessary to alter these laws. After all, no court is bound to impose the maximum penalty that was set in the days of King Charles. Surely there is no need suddenly to mitigate penalties when the courts themselves are quite capable of bringing this sort of thing up to date. Where has the need arisen for amendment? 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  told us of cases of bombing embassies. This is something that has become a grave threat in recent times. We have had occurrences of aeroplane hijacking. These are the types of crimes that are becoming a menace. If this was the motive in bringing forward this type of Bill we would not have any quarrel with it, but as the Minister indicated in his speech this is not the motive. In fact the Minister for National Development in concentrating on the matter of protecting diplomatic personnel, missions and posts told us that the law has always required Australia to safeguard these persons and in their functions. The very point that the Opposition makes in this debate is that the existing law provides for the protection of these persons and places. 
One of the pernicious things that we want to stress in this debate is the question of what is a reasonable apprehension of violence. In the second reading speech the then Attorney-General said that it is quite an objective test because it will be decided by the Court on the basis of evidence. He said: 
The Bill provides objective criteria for determining whether an offence has been committed. For example ... the test is whether the apprehension is a 'reasonable' one. Its reasonableness is to be decided by the Court in the light of the evidence. 
That is all very well if the court is reasonable, and sometimes it is. We hope it always will be. But the pernicious aspect of this phrase as applied in this Bill is that these offences are to be dealt with by summary jurisdiction without any option given to the person charged. In other words, a magistrate can sit on his bench - magistrates are not unknown to do this - and at any stage declare a sentence. They do not have to hear the full argument. They are subject to bias in such cases. They are subject to influence by police. I think it is nonsense to say that every policeman tells lies. I do not think this happens, but I do think that in courts of summary jurisdiction there is a great temptation which is frequently given into by policemen to go through a routine, a formula of given evidence, without much regard to the truth because it is never tested. This is a danger that has grown in recent times. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  stressed it. Perhaps he overstressed it. Perhaps he overstated his case in saying that police are usually playing games, if he did say that. But let us remember that the honourable member for Prospect is one of the very few people in this country who has taken action outside the Parliament to counteract this very pernicious development  in  courts of summary jurisdiction and in the police forces, and who has successfully through his civil liberties movement helped to fight actions which prove the very accusation be was making that there is this tendency to make a game of courts; that there is this tendency to manipulate evidence and to convict people on suspicion. This is the point we object to and this is the safeguard we ask for. 
Our amendment seeks to omit the words other than an offence against section 7 or section 16, are punishable on summary conviction' from clause 23 of the Bill. We say that offences against this Bill should not be determined summarily except with the consent of the defendant. We think that is the very minimum safeguard because even the consent of the defendant can be manipulated by threat or by holding out to him the prospect that he will get off a lot more lightly if the matter is dealt with summarily and if he pleads guilty. We think that is the very minimum that this Government ought to accept as an amendment to this pernicious aspect on summary jurisdiction. 
While 1 am on this point I must draw attention to the fact that in clause 24 of the Bill a person who has been charged has no right to be given the full particulars of the conduct which is the subject of the charge. Surely it is contrary to one of the basic principles of British justice for an accused person not to be given full particulars of the charge. What is the objection? What is the Government frightened of? There can be no objection to giving this information because without it a person has to plead on an imperfect knowledge of what he is alleged to have done. It is true that in most cases the courts would be aware of this but we are not convinced that all courts will therefore acknowledge this and will act on it, particularly if the defendant is not in a position to defend himself with full legal knowledge as so often occurs in courts of summary jurisdiction. 
A further point raised in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General relates to persons assembling for a common purpose who act in such a way as to give a reasonable apprehension that there may be violence. The reasonable apprehension is in the mind of a sergeant of police or someone of higher rank. T have no doubt that the great majority of police sergeants, and certainly the ones that I have had to deal with, try to do their best according to their lights to interpret and carry out their orders and the law. This is certainly so in the case of the one who questioned me recently on behalf of the AttorneyGeneral. But I want to question this whole notion of what is a reasonable apprehension of violence. I want to quote an editorial from the newspaper which says under its heading on the front page: "The paper you can trust' - from the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of 6th May 1970. The editorial is headed: 'High cost of Moratorium involvement', lt advises people to avoid like a plague spot any Moratorium meeting. The reason it gives for this is its apprehension of violence. The previous day, 4 students had been shot dead in Ohio. The editorial says referring to this: 
Mob emotion has always been a terrifying force. Caught up In H, even the . . . spectator becomes prone to commit acts which, only hours afterwards, horrify him. 
The Opposition has no quarrel with that. It knows that there is danger in mobs, lt knows that that danger is violence. It knows that all too often this shows itself in international relations where we engage in mob violence with one nation or another, as Australia is doing now. But the Opposition does not think that therefore dissent to such violence can best be expressed by avoiding any kind of mob or any kind of risk. The risk that those students took in Ohio, where four of them were shot, might have been in their eyes well merited and well justified. The risk they took of being shot might have been well justified, because by such acts throughout the United States of America that country is now drawing back. It is taking a second look at the mob violence it has been indulging in, to which these same young people were objecting. The editorial continues: lt is the job of the Government and its police to keep the streets free. 
That argument does not wash with a young man who has found that the job the Government has set itself is to clutter up the streets in Vietnam. What is the argument for keeping the streets free here for someone to go and do his shopping on a day when there is a public demonstration? How can that argument be placed against the argument for getting out of the immoral involvement in Vietnam which the very demonstration was set down to argue against? 
We have been told a lot about law and order. The 'Australian Law Journal' of 30th September last year refers to the contention that if someone claims that an individual's conscience is greater than the law this conscience should prevail over the law. It says that this is surely the quickest way to lose freedom, to bring into disrepute the law of the land and the administration of justice. This 1 do not dispute, with the qualification, that the person who wrote that article is a lawyer. He makes his living out of administering the law. He has a nice, tidy, peace loving and peace abiding community. But the freedom he is talking about which he is able to give the citizens who engage him to administer the law is freedom under the existing law. If one wants to change that law. he says, one has to do it through the proper institutions. It is wrong, he says, that people in this situation claim that they are entitled not only to be heard but also to win. He says that they put themselves beyond the law's authority, and this is immensely attractive to the young, the impatient and the idealistic, and immensely useful to the totalitarian. All of this I do not dispute, but nevertheless I must protest that there are times when freedom is not helped by obeying the law, when the most vital freedoms have to be defended by defying the law. This has happened repeatedly in British history and in the history of all free nations. 
It is very difficult to know where to draw the line. I for one respect the consciences of many honourable members on this side of the House and on the other side who say that one should never on any account break these laws for conscription for service in Vietnam. But I also respect the consciences of the men who say that by breaking that law and taking the consequences they are not, as the 'Australian Law Journal' claims, putting themselves beyond the law's authority. Not only do they not try to put themselves beyond the law's authority but some of them go up and beg to be dealt with by the law. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said: 'Put me in gaol.' The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has said: 'Put me in gaol.' They are not putting themselves beyond the law's authority; they are challenging it. They are protesting about it. It is the only way open to them when the legislative process fails, as it usually does in matters vital to freedom. The legislative process will work only when enough of the people are enough aroused to change the government to a government which will change that oppressive, totalitarian and tyrannous law. Just to hammer home my point I will quote once more from 'the paper you can trust'. At the top of the editorial from which I have quoted is 'Today's Thought'. It reads: 
The vilest specimens of human nature are to be found among demagogues. 
I am sure that the man who wrote that was not the man who wrote the editorial underneath it or he would have seen the inconsistency in those two points of view. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That arms races, in which Australia is involved, have war as their natural conclusion. 
That peace movements have never succeeded except by general acceptance of a superior jurisdiction by previously independent sovereign regimes and their followers. 
That the size of the supreme unit of government has progressed, along with increasing communications, bringing mutual understanding and the means for unified administration to nations consisting of units formerly alien to each other. 
That for the survival of mankind and the lasting security of nations, sovereignty over the means of making war must be passed to the citizens of a unitary world. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House wil give leadership to other citizens by declaring adherence to the general principle of working for a democratic legislative, judicial and executive authority, with constitutionally limited and adequate powers over armaments and disarmament, and over diversion of a proportion of war budgets to a world development fund. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1  want to make a few remarks regarding the position of the University of Queensland. The updating of salaries for academic staff is not the sole matter concerning universities now, particularly the University of Queensland. There is also the question of non-academic salaries. These have reached such a pitch of urgency and such a state of crisis that universities will be lacking in essential maintenance. Facilities for students will be neglected because no new non-academic staff can be employed. Universities are letting their establishments run down. 
The University of Queensland is in the worst position of any Australian university vis-a-vis Commonwealth funds not only as regards the running costs for the University but as regards capital costs. Per capita per student the University of Queensland is worse off than any other university and is paying this penalty partly as a result oi having a more open policy than have other universities. Having held out to the last against imposing quotas, the University of Queensland has been forced this financial year to impose them in many faculties. Students doing research are cooped up, 4 in one little room about as big as one oi our offices here in Parliament House. A bit of masonite separates them into a yard square area equipped with a desk. People are working in more than one library where an extra floor has been put in between the ceiling and the original floor and you have to bob your head before you can get into the upper storey to do some study. Students are sitting on stairways to study. In fact the whole set-up smacks of overcrowding, under-financing and understaffing. Therefore while the Opposition welcomes any move towards remedying some of the problems of the universities we do not think, by any means, that this Bill represents a marvellous sign of generosity on the part of the Government. We urgently draw the attention of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  to the problems in this regard, particularly in the case of the University of Queensland. 
This position is not confined to one State. It applies to every university except the Australian National University. It is apparent, when you compare the affluent and well equipped situation of the Australian National University with universities in general, that the AN (J is far ahead as regards the amount of floor space per student, the ratio of staff members to students, the salaries spent on academics in proportion to students, the amount of money available in proportion to student fees, or any other criteria. It ought to be the aim of a Commonwealth government, a national government, which has the long range national welfare at heart, to see that every university comes up to the ideal standard that we have at the Australian National University. Nobody is complaining about the amount of money being spent at the ANU. What we find regrettable, however, is that this Government looks at its function with regard to State universities as one of minimal handouts and not one of maximum assistance to reach optimum levels. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  referred to the positions dealt in this Bill - the senior academic staff - as being perhaps more than any others positions of conscience, in other words, that men in those positions could please themselves to a large extent whether they did a conscientious job, just how big a part they played in voluntary activities outside the regulations laid down and so on. To my mind there is one job even more dependent on the conscience of the person concerned whether he works hard or whether he loafs, and that is the job held by a member of Parliament in a safe seat 
The essential point I wish to make is that while academic salaries are being updated, in a sense, by this Bill they are not being updated and adjusted according to needs as between universities. The University of Queensland is still lagging when compared with other universities. There is still the lag at State universities in comparison with the Australian National University, and something should have been done about redressing this imbalance when this Bill was being drawn up. The opportunity should have been taken to reduce the problem of the 6 per cent wage rise in non-academic as well as academic salaries. While not opposing the Bill I commend these observations to the House. I trust that the Minister will see that something is done in the Budget this year to correct this urgent situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
asked  the  Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether spokesmen of the Hanoi regime have rejected the offer of President Nixon for an unconditional exchange of those war prisoners asking to be repatriated. 
If so, has this rejection been made in part on the grounds that there is no proof that a particular prisoner would wish to stay with his captors if he were sure they would not detain or intimidate him longer if he asked for repatriation. 
Will he take steps to arrange for the International Red Cross or outer mutually agreed upon body to take custody of all prisoners in a neutral zone and to decide on and. carry out repatriation where desired after interviewing prisoners who could be assured of the confidential nature of the proceedings. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Will he consider making grants to the States for the purpose of providing approved minimum standards of library facilities in primary schools according to local needs. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he consider extending the home care and delivered meals subsidies to include home nursing organisations and regional home and day care centres similar to the centre set up by the Royal Newcastle Hospital. 
I second the motion. I point out that this is not just a matter of wage justice and conditions; it is a matter of the health and efficiency of every person concerned with the Parliament, including the drivers who are waiting outside. It is dangerous for people to be driving around the streets in the condition those people must be in after this time. All of us are in a condition comparable to inebriation. That is what fatigue does to the brain. It creates a condition similar to intoxication: On previous occasions such as this honourable members acted in a pretty ugly manner, like a lot of intoxicated people, when  Mr Speaker  did not show tolerance arid when he himself became cranky and irritable, as people do in an intoxicated state.  On this occasion we have had a different kind of intoxication. There has been a certain amount of hilarity and irresponsibility. But it is inevitable that there will be some kind of intoxicated behaviour when people's minds are as tired as ours are now. This Wi i apply to the staff we employ inside and outside this House, and especially to people who will have to work for a couple of hours after we have gone to bed - if we ever get to bed - because they have to prepare Hansard reports and do all sorts of- other things that we will not be doing. 
I support this motion. I think it is high time it was brought home to Government supporters that it is their own doing that things have reached the impossible state they are in. We will have to sit next week. The Government will have to face this fact. That is why we want this motion discussed here and now. There is no excuse for prolonging the sitting in the way it is being prolonged. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has he received evidence that members of the Moscow Circus or Bolshoi Ballet have been chosen for foreign tours on grounds other than merit in their work. 
If so, will he either (a) disclose that evidence to those who have objected to his tolerance of the South African foreign policy to choose international sporting teams exclusively from a racial minority or (b) review his public comparison of the Soviet and South African regimes in this connection. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the United Nations Special Committee on Apartheid decide to appeal for the release of Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe who was detained by South African authorities for 9 years after inciting his fellow South Africans to defy unjust racist laws and to demonstrate peacefully. 
Can he say whether the South African Government released Sobukwe 2 days later but hat refused to allow him a passport or even a oneway exit visa to take up an appointment at the University of Wisconsin. 
Will he initiate further action at the United Nations on behalf of Sobukwe 
asked the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether dangerously rusted second-hand cars are sold to unsuspecting buyers in Australia. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report of the British Automobile Association claiming that rustproofing of new vehicles is possible for a cost of little more than $1 per vehicle. 
Can he say whether any State Minister has declined, unilaterally, to compel rustproofing of new cars while other States manufacture the cars. 
Is he able to say whether it is economically possible to have cars inspected for dangerous faults before resale by registered dealers 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether tax-exempt organisations conducting laundries, wineries, distilleries and other commercial enterprises use members of religious orders, expectant unmarried mothers and others under their care as an unpaid of underpaid work force and pay no income, pay-roll or company taxes because the profits got to tax-exempt activities. 
If so, are these enterprises required by law to file regular returns for each kind of tax. 
If returns ate required are they regularly filed. 
What revenues would accrue from each kind of (a) tax, (b) enterprise and (c) exempt organisation if these tax exemptions were removed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does his Department assess national profitability of alumina production in Australia for purposes of Company tax. 
If so, is this based primarily on the industry's figures for payment received from its shareholders, based largely overseas, on independent audit and technical assessment, or other factors. 
Is he able to say how the aluminium production by Conzinc-Riotinto of Australia compares in profitability with Gladstone alumina production, based on (a) capital committed, (b) gross production cost and (c) the processing of 1 ton of alumina. 
If so, can he also say how this profitability of CRA compares with that of other principal shareholders in Queensland Alumina Limited outside Australia, and with that of Bell Bay Refinery. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does his Department accept the right of a rural lands developer to earn several times the value of his properties by resales over a period of years tax free while submitting income tax returns as a primary producer showing a net loss of earnings each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Department of Health pays for general anaesthesia at the prescribed rate in connection with a series or combination of professional services only to the extent that these services do not include assistance at an operation or series or combination of operations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the minimum charge in Sydney for the use of an ambulance is 320 and $10 for pensioners, with an additional charge of SO cents per mile for the return journey from the ambulance station. 
If so, is this charge greater than the most common fees for a visit to the patient's home by a qualified nurse and to the hospital by a doctor, using separate vehicles. 
Can he provide details of the corresponding costs in other capitals and provincial centres. 
Can he say what is the cost, and who pays the cost, of (a) training an ambulance bearer in Sydney, (b) wages of (i) ambulance men and (ii) trainees, (c) capital equipment and annual depreciation of an ambulance and (d) non-capital running costs per mile of an ambulance. 
Can he also give the average training time of an ambulance bearer and the average length of service given after training. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether there is a ban on television advertising by tobacco interests in the United States of America. 
If so, can he say whether the ban has led to (a) unprecedented Press advertising by those interests, (b) cessation of widespread mandatory anti-smoking propaganda introduced to balance tobacco advertising on television, (c) a slow increase, also evident in Australia, of (i) free advertising in the form of placards displayed by sponsors at televised sports events, (ii) frequent broadcast mention of sponsors of special airconditioned mobile broadcasting facilities for country shows and special events, (iii) free equipment for surf lifesavers and (iv) more frequent depiction of smoking in televised fiction. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Were duty free imports of caustic soda (or export alumina production valued at less than $500,000 during 1965-66 and over $2,500,000 during 1968-69. 
If so, would this, apart from similar amounts imported at low duty, have attracted over $900,000 at full rates of duty in 1968-69. 
Has his Department provided the Treasury with information to assist in the assessment of whether the prices received for export alumina exhibit a reasonable profit for the purposes of assessing company tax, considering that the purchasers are mainly foreign companies which own Australian alumina works. 
If full duty was charged, would the price of alumina be thereby increased beyond competitive world market levels. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Medical Association in June 1970 agree to meetings between officers of his Department and the Economic Advisory Committee of the AMA to discuss means of arriving at recommended fees. 
If so, did the AMA reply in detail to all questions at these meetings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government made no recommendation on medical fees except the general call for restraint in claims for income rises but objected to an overall 15 per cent rise in recommended fees when average earnings rose 17 per cent over the period. 

 Dr Forties ; The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has made no recommendation on medical fees. The Australian Medical Association was however advised that die proposed across the board' fee increases which it announced on 8th February 1971 were unacceptable to the Government. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What parts were played by (a) officials, (b) former officials of the Bureau of Mineral Resources and other public instrumentalities and (c) private interests in the discovery and assessment of the bauxite resources of Australia. 
asked. the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
What were the (a) initial, (b) maximum and (c) latest annual production figures for aluminium in Australia under (i) public and (ii) private enterprise and on what dates were those figures reached in each case. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the value of Australian (a) exports to and (b) imports from (i) South Africa and (ii) Rhodesia for each of the last 3 years for which figures are available? 
To what extent have annual variations in these figures been affected by changes in the lists of proscribed commodities? 
What are the proscribed commodities, and when and by whom were they added to or removed from the lists. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did the State governments of Queensland and New South Wales in September 1969 request that Commonwealth finance be made available for the construction of Pike Creek Dam. 
If so, has the Commonwealth replied to the States concerned. 
If not, why not. 
If the Government has replied, when will details of the reply and the reasons for the decision be announced. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Queensland coal is exported to Japan for about$12 per ton? 
If so, is this less than half the price that Japan pays for similar coal from other sources? 
What proportion of the known coal reserves of Australia will be exported by 2000 A.D. based on the rate of increase of consumption over the last 5 years? 
What will be the monetary returns to Australia at present consumption rates? 
Are these returns dependent mainly on decisions of the Queensland Government? 
Are these decisions less favourable than similar decisions in other regions of Australia supplying coal to Japan? 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he table, before final designs are decided upon, the pictorial road signs proposed to be introduced to Papua New Guinea in 1971-72 as mentioned in 'House of Assembly News', Number 29, page 6? 
Have those concerned considered the comprehensive submissions of the Semantography (Blissymbolics) Institute, 2 Vicar Street, Coogee, to the Australian Automobile Association, to Expo 1967, to United Nations organs and to others which especially stress (a) the need to accompany every pictograph by a printed equivalent, as every pictorial sign needs to be learnt and (b) the clarity, simplicity, free availability and universality of the world's first pasigraphy, making it ideal for public signs which so often demand split-second recognition? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government received a request from the United Nations for suggestions, to bc forwarded by 1st July 1972, for a review of (he Charter of the United Nations which was supported by the Government in December 1970? 
Will the Government make an early statement of the proposals recommended for study and discussion by interested persons in accordance with his predecessor's reply to question No 984 (Hansard, 21 May 1970, page 2622)? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What nation does Australia recognise as having administrative responsibility for the Tibetan region? 
Can he say whether the Peking Government expressed a desire to restore civil order in Tibet after overthrowing civil authorities there by force? 
Does the Government welcome these expressed aims and the expressed aims of the dictatorship in Pakistan? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an American Friends Service Committee white paper entitled Indo-China 1971? 
If so, will he make an early statement on the allegations quoted in the white paper on pages 23 and 24 that United States policy has betrayed hill tribes in northern Laos by fostering their hopeless opposition to the North Vietnamese and then deserting them, contrary to Australian and allied stated policies not to jettison beleaguered minorities requesting our support? 
asked the Minister [or Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In submitting proposals to the Secretary-General regarding the review of the United Nations' Charter, which are required before 1st July 1972, will the Government give consideration to the need to move for (a) negotiating an international exchange of press space and broadcasting time, (b) representation for China and Tibet separately (as for the Soviet Union, the Ukraine and Byelorussia) to encourage China to accept de facto representation for Taiwan, and separate representation for contending regimes in other divided countries, (c) universal suffrage in developing nations as a step towards democratic representation at the General Assembly or an associated House of Deputies and (d) growing legislative, judicial and executive powers for the United Nations as a pre-requisite for total disarmament, co-ordinated world development and control of the environment, subject to safeguards for national sovereignty in purely national matters? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice. 
Will the Government take steps to prevent, curtail or restrict radio and television advertising of liquor or to require equal facilities to be made available by licensed broadcasters for education concerning the effects of liquor. 
I present the fol  lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth - 
That arms races, in which Australia is involved, have war as their natural conclusion. 
That peace movements have never succeeded except by general acceptance of a superior jurisdictionby previously independent sovereign regimes and their followers. 
That the size of the supreme unit of government has progressed, along with increasing communications, bringing mutual understanding and the means for unified administration to nations consisting of units formerly alien to each other. 
That for the survival of mankind and the lasting security of nations, sovereignty over the means of making war must be passed to the citizens of a unitary world. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will give leadership to other citizens by declaring adherence to the general principle of working for a democratic legislative, judicial and executive authority, with constitutionally limited and adequate powers over armaments and disarmament and over diversion of a proportion of war budgets to a world development fund. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the operation of free competition been restricted in air travel to and from Australia by Government agreement to enforce price-fixing on charter flights at levels recommended by airline operators. 
Are those airline operators free to arrange charter services on the same terms and with the same savings as other charter operators; if not, in what way are they prevented from openly competing in the charter market if they should want to do so, either under their own banner or as an associated company. 
Are adequate safety and employment standards enforced in charter flights; if so, what is the justification for enforcing minimum fares and minimum periods of club membership for charter passengers. 
ls it in the interests of passengers that uneconomic routes should be sustained with more economic airline operators who have already negotiated give and take agreements with Qantas Airways Limited and Australia in such matters as fares, facilities, safety standards, time tables and routes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did officers of his Department, at joint meetings with the advisers of the Australian Medical Association, request that recommended medical fees to take effect in July 1971 should be notified to them by mid-December 1970? 
If so, was this deadline twice extended on request until mid-February 1971? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to advice to doctors in the Australian Medical Association Code of Ethics Article 7.8 that sterilising operations should be done only for therapeutic reasons and that legal advice from the Association to its members was that such procedures for other reasons could lead to a criminal charge under obscure laws in some States? 
Have consultations been held with the States in respect of these laws? 
If not, will the Minister arrange for consultations to be held in view of the number of large underprivileged problem families wilh most of the children unplanned and inadequately provided for? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Victorian Health Minister,  Mr Rossiter,  in December 1970, that the implementation of the 12 months old Health (Amendment) Act, which requires printed warnings on cigarette packets, would break down the 'Federal principle? 
Will the Minister arrange to make a joint statement with the Victorian Minister as to what they conceive as their respective responsibilities in this matter? 
Will the Minister consider parallel legislation for Commonwealth Territories? 
asked the Minister for the Environment Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the National Film Library refused to supply films to schools except through local film centres? 
ls he able to say whether these centres have refused to carry out this intermediary service in Queensland as a result of the recent economy drive undertaken bv that State at the instance of the Commonwealth? 
Will he restore the rights of Queensland students and save the needless cost and delay of this intermediary system by allowing schools approved by regional authorities to borrow direct from the library? 
I realise that, if I speak to an amendment which I propose to move later in the debate, I, then, will not have the opportunity to speak again. However, I think it is fair that honourable members should hear what I propose before they vote on the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant). His  amendment is not in actual conflict with mine insofar as his amendment is proposed as an addition to the motion rather than as a replacement of the existing standing order. The amendment I will move reads: 
That al] words after "that" be omitted wilh a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
Standing orders 40 and 50 be omitted and the following standing orders be inserted in place thereof: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in alternate weeks at nine o'clock a.m. so. At five o'clock p.m. on sitting days the  Speaker  shall put the question: 'That the House do now adjourn'. At all other times the motion for the adjournment of the House may be moved only by a Minister. No amendment can be moved to this motion. 
It may be thought at first sight that I am acceding to the view of the previous speaker that we should work a 35-hour week. If each day a luncheon adjournment of li hours was to be taken, the sitting hours would be 32i hours each week. I am referring to sitting hours, not working hours. In this way, the sitting hours would work out to 8i hours per day as against 6 hours per day on most days when the Parliament now sits. 
The point of view that I wish to put in regard to sitting from Monday to Friday is this: We have heard 3 speakers say that Friday sittings do not work out and that people are anxious to get back to their electorates. The reason why they have been anxious to get back to their electorates is that they know they have to return here for a sitting on the following Monday. Under the system that I am proposing, they would not come back in the following week. Parliament would be sitting on alternate weeks. There would be no hurry to get home and no hurry to return here. The work would be done in sane and civilised daylight hours. The Hansard staff would be getting to bed before midnight instead of 4 a.m. If we wish to extend sitting hours into the evening, this can still be done but the extension would not result in the Parliament sitting into the small hours. I have had cause to speak on the absurdity and the insanity of late sittings. In fact, the irrational way in which people react when they are fatigued and the way they suffer not only from exhaustion of the mind but also from a state of confusion in which their minds become unreliable would not be tolerated in any other profession. Working into the early hours of the morning would not be tolerated. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! 1 point out to the honourable member that he must speak to the amendment that is before the House at the moment. Is he intending to do this? 
Actually,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 am opposing the motion. 
I do not wish to speak further to my amendment. I have outlined it. All that I am doing now is opposing the motion as it stands. One point against sitting the hours that I have proposed has been raised by previous speakers. They have said that the problems of Ministers - the Executive - should be considered and that they should be able to meet in the morning. They also should consider the effect of our sitting until midnight. If they have no sittings of this House to attend, all the things that they now do in the mornings could well be done after 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. when the adjournment debate has concluded. Their minds would be just as clear then as they are when they are in charge of a debate in this House at that hour. If they still insist that they are too tired after dinner and want their minds freshest for things other than the sittings of this House, let them meet at 7 a.m. Plenty of professionals do this. If a doctor is giving an anaesthetic he often starts his work at 7 a.m., not 9 a.m. - and honourable members are not called out in the middle of the night. If they were obliged to be on duty in the middle of the night they would want to make sure that they got to bed earlier than midnight. 
Regarding overall hours, in a 4-week cycle as proposed by the Committee the House is asked to sit for 9 days in every 4 weeks. My proposal is that the House should sit for 10 days in every 4 weeks. With respect to attending to electoral matters, not much is to be gained by reverting to the old system. Many members from the northern and far western parts of the continent do not get to their electorates, even under the 3-day sitting arrangements, during office hours in the 3 weeks that the Parliament sits. They are home for only one week in four. If the proposal which I shall outline later were adopted members would be home one week in two. 
I do not wish to prolong the debate. The House has debated frequently the position of members who live a long way from Canberra. I summarise my remarks by saying that whether we work a 40-hour week or an 80-hour week it is far better that the bulk of our work and the important part of our work be done in the important part of the day, during the regular and normal working part of the day when we would be doing our best work. I suggest that party meetings, executive meetings and committee meetings, which frequently call on outside experts for advice or which take evidence from people, would be better held in the evenings. This would result in less disturbance to the running of the House and less disturbance to people who come to see and speak with us. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to E. S. Herman's book, 'Atrocities in Viet-Nam', (Boston, 1970) describing ARVN troops as the worst looters, American air and artillery strikes as causing the most carnage, the Viet Cong as having killed only 200 to 3S0 people according to South Vietnamese officials and the secret document, misplaced by Americans for 19 months until the time the My Lai massacre was announced, claiming thousands were killed by the Viet Cong? 
If so, is he able to provide references to any refutations of these statements. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a students' page in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 27th October 1970, entitled 'Getting over the Language Barrier', describing English as a language without spelling rules and commending lindgren's evolutionary spelling proposal for the sake of migrants and others? 
If so, will he obtain and table in the House an authoritative appraisal of this proposal and discuss its possible implementation with the Minister for External Affairs? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has be received copies of documents purporting to show the reservations expressed by General Minh and Air Vice-Marshal Ky regarding the authenticity of elections and projected elections in South Vietnam? 
If so, will he present copies of those documents to the House? 
I ask the Minister for Imigration: Did the Government refuse visas to East German contestants for political reasons and so deprive Australia of the right to see the 1966 world pentathlon championships? Did a similar decision deprive Australia of the world table tennis championships in 1967 for political reas ons? Will a similar policy be applied to refuse entry to international cricket teams which are selected racially because of political decrees and not according to merit? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Indonesian Newsletter for 21st June 1971 that France has donated to the Faculty of Letters and Arts, IKIP, Rawamangun, a set of audiovisual appliances for teaching languages. 
If so, what steps has Australia taken to see that. English teaching is as readily available as French teaching in Indonesia. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of grants this year by Finland  of  $100,000  to  the International Planned Parenthood Federation  to  help their work in developing countries and $150,000  to  the United Nations Fund for Popula  tion  Activities. 
If so, is it proposed that Australia will join the other Scandinavian countries, Britain, Canada, Japan and the United States of America in making similar donations to the Federation to help its work in reducing the growing number of deaths by starvation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a League of Nations Draft Convention submitted to member Nations in 1937 concerning adoption of a fixed calendar with identical quarters which was proposed by Chile, favoured by 14 nations and opposed by 6 nations. 
If so, what information has he regarding the present attitudes of nations in this matter. 
asked the Postmaster General, upon notice: 
Will the Government take steps to (a) prevent, control or restrict radio and television advertising of liquor and tobacco beyond the existing restrictions and (b) require equal facilities to be made available at the advertisers' expense for education concerning the effects of liquor and tobacco, as has been done overseas. 
 We have heard a stirring defence of humanity from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Whilst some major issues concerning this country have arisen in this Budget debate, and whilst we have in the last week heard  Dr Paul  Ehrlich outline some even weightier problems which face the world and in the solution of which Australia will have to play its part as one of the leading economies in the world, I want to concentrate in the brief time available to me on something of more immediate importance. I do this in the same spirit of supporting humanity instead of profit motives. I refer mainly to the advertising of alcohol and tobacco which this Government sees fit to allow to continue virtually unrestricted because apparently it suits its version of the economy of this country. I appreciate the presence in the House of the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  representing the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to whom I indicated that I would be talking on this topic. I want to protest at the sort of answers I have been getting from the Minister for Health and the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  on this matter of advertising. I have not time to go through all of them or to go through ad of the health aspects of this question. 
Let me quickly recapitulate some of the risks that are run by people who are influenced by this type of advertising. I want to point out that it is not just a question of giving people facts. It is all very well to say: 'If people are silly enough to abuse alcohol and tobacco let them take the consequences.' This is the same sort of argument that we could put up to justify, say, the licensing of heroin pedlars in order to get revenue. I have no doubt the Government would do that. I have no doubt it could build up quite a clientele and it could justify this by saying: 'We have put out pamphlets through all the Health Departments. It has been discussed on television. The AntiHeroin Association has just put out some television advertisements to warn people of the terrible dangers of heroin. If people are silly enough to use it to such an extent that it threatens then- health, what is that to us? It is a major source of revenue.' Why not get into that? It would bring in a lot more revenue than the Government gets from alcohol and tobacco and it would not kill as many people. 
They do not get any more money whatever way people die. They just get it a bit quicker this way. Alcohol has been blamed for causing 50 per cent of the road toll. The road toll is not just a matter of people dying and helping to keep undertakers affluent. It is also a matter of lifelong maiming, suffering and poverty for lots of families because this is the main cause of people being in wheelchairs and living a stunted and withered remnant of a life. Alcohol is the main single cause of admissions to mental hospitals, 50 per cent of such admissions now being attributable to this cause. I could go into all the less well established effects such as premature senility and arteriosclerosis. Because of the consumption of alcohol people have heart attacks and strokes at an earlier age than they otherwise would. 
With regard to tobacco, the tobacco companies have stated that there is only oneninth of the incidence of lung cancer in Australia that there is in America and therefore all these weighty reports, which are now overwhelming and unanswerable, from other countries of research into the causes of lung cancer, for example, do not apply to Australia. What if they do not? Suppose we do have only oneninth of the incidence here because we have less smog and less of the other factors which have a part in causing lung cancer, which is well explained by  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet in his latest book on immunological surveillance. He is aware of this but is still active in campaigning against smoking. Suppose it is true that lung cancer is a minor, even trivial, disease in Australia. The fact remains that there is still a very high incidence of chronic bronchitis and emphysema primarily as a direct result of smoking. It is not excessive smoking but average to heavy smoking that is the commonest cause of this complaint which reduces the life of a smoker of 40 cigarettes a day by 8 years. The insurance companies have been impervious to suggestions that they should put a loading on for this sort of thing. Perhaps one of the things we should do is to pay people a higher rate of age pension if they smoke over 40 cigarettes a day. This would help them to pay for what they are spending on the cigarettes and we would not be out of pocket because they would be dying 8 years sooner. 
Perhaps we should be putting a bonus on pipes so that they could switch over to pipe smoking. Some people might think that I was being a little facetious in my earlier remarks about heroin, but the fact remains that opium peddling is going on today and heroin is being manufactured internationally. It was fostered by the British Government in China years ago. Now we have the wife of the Premier of New South Wales saying that this international drug peddling is a Communist plot. The evidence is, of course, that it is the Army and the police in Thailand which are mainly concerned in this and which are organising it. When there is a great outcry and a bit of pressure on them they round up a few bandits and say: 'We have caught them red handed. It was a lot of Communists growing the stuff. They confiscate it all and of course they continue to sell it on the black market. 
If anyone is going to argue that we should have revenue from alcohol and tobacco I ask: Why not marihuana? It is a thing you can take or leave. It is not like cigarettes the lack of which, for 2 weeks, makes you ready to tear the place down and belt your wife because you are so irri table. You do not get as attached to marihuana as that. It is not as dangerous when driving your car home as 4 drinks at the pub. Why do we not start legalising marihuana and put a bit of revenue on that? Let them advertise it on television. Has anyone any good arguments against it? Is it not a better way of raising revenue than these dangerous drugs that are killing Australians? It has been said that you give the people the facts and it is their own fault if they take no notice. Anybody who has studied the advertising business or who has done a little bit of psychology knows that this is rot. 
I wonder whether honourable members have read the paperback book called "The Hidden Pursuaders'. In it a soap millionaire in America was asked how he got people to use his brand of soap. He said: We do not sell soap any more. We sell hope - get a little lovelier each day, bring out the hidden beauty, doctors prove that our plan will make your skin lovelier in 19 days'. They do not sell soap; they sell hope. The people who are advertising cigarettes on television are not selling cigarette smoke; they are selling sophistication and a man of the world, sportsman picture, lt is not a bit of good the Government saying that this should not be counted. We should either ban cigarette advertising outright or we should do as they did in America and require the advertisers to pay for equal time for publicity against cigarettes. 
At the same time we should cease to make all advertising of these products tax deductible. This is the minimum we should do. It is said we must not restrict free speech. All right, let them advertise marihuana and heroin. Let them advertise alcohol and tobacco. But make them advertise the other side, too, and tax them on their advertising. I want to refer now to New Guinea. The first thing we must give the people of New Guinea is the right to stop migration to that country from Australia. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that vehicle emissions are a major cause of dangerous air pollution? 
If so, what action is being taken by the Commonwealth and Slate Governments to reduce this pollution? 
I have been misrepresented in this morning's Press. This morning 2 news services telephoned me regarding a report that I had urged the legalisation of marihuana and the advertising of marihuana and heroin in order to increase revenue. I was referred to this report in an edition of today's 'Sydney Morning Herald- which is not yet available here. The report relayed to me is a gross and irresponsible misrepresentation of my adjournment speech last night. I shall quote from the Hansard report of my speech. I said: 1  refer mainly to the advertising of alcohol and tobacco which this Government sees fit to allow to continue virtually unrestricted because apparently it suits its version of the economy of this country. ... I want to protest at the sort of answers I have been getting from the Minister for Health and the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan 
Hulme) on this matter of advertising..... lt is all very well to say: 'If people are silly enough to abuse alcohol and tobacco let them take the consequences.' This is the same sort of argument that we could put up to justify, say, the licensing of heroin pedlars. . . . The Government  . . . could build up quite a  clientile  and it could justify this by saying: 'We have put out pamphlets. . . . The Anti-Heroin Association has just put out some television advertisements to warn people of the terrible dangers of heroin. If people are silly enough to use it to such an extent that it threatens their health, what is that to us? It is a major source of revenue.' Why not get into that? It would bring in a lot more revenue than the Government gets from alcohol and tobacco and it would not kill as many people. 
I further referred to the subject in these terms: 
If anyone is going to argue that we should have revenue from alcohol and tobacco I ask: .... Why do we not start legalising marihuana and put a bit of revenue on that? Let them advertise it on television. Has anyone any good arguments against it? Is it not a better way of raising revenue than these dangerous drugs that are killing Australians? It has been said that you give the people the facts and it is their own fault if they take no notice. Anybody who has studied the advertising business or who has done a little bit of psychology knows that this is rot. . . . We should either ban cigarette advertising outright or. . . . require the advertisers to pay for equal time for publicity against cigarettes. 
If the House will bear with me, there are 2 more sentences in which I referred to this matter of the advertising of marihuana. 
Yes. 
I said: 
At the same time we should cease to make all advertising of these products tax deductible. This is the minimum we should do. It is said we must not restrict free speech. All right, let them advertise marihuana and heroin. Let them advertise alcohol and tobacco. But make them advertise the other side, too. and tax them on their advertising. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether motor vehicle manufacturers earn several times more from spare parts than for  a  car composed  of  those parts. 
Can  he  also say whether total profits  from  spare parts have progressively approached  those  from new vehicle sales, especially  as a  result  of  accident repairs. 
Is  it a fact that car  designs  are  likely  to  lead  to more  demand  for  spare parts following  an  accident than commercial vehicle designs. 
What action has been taken by the Commonwealth and State Governments to reduce wasteful design in motor vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Are Australian metal exports to Mainland China suitable for use in producing armaments. 
What conditions are imposed by Australia as to the disposal, or uses made of exports from Australia. 
What are the exports concerned in each case. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an account in Hemisphere, August 1971, of the work 'Sobraniya Socineniya in three volumes, being the first linguistic research done in New Guinea. 
Will he seek a translation and a reprint of the drawings referred to in the article, in conjunction with interested linguistic institutes. 
Replying briefly to a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  1 point out that he himself has said that the economy of this country is not just one of quantity for quantity's sake, but one of quality. If he reads the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  he will see that this is exactly what we are seeking. When he says that the Australian Labor Party is dedicated to the destruction of the federal system or of federation, obviously he has not read our policy, which provides for decentralised control and social control. To give him a small example in the field of health, we want regional administration of health services. We do not want the sort of thing that we have in repatriation, which is centralised control. 
My main theme tonight is, firstly, on inflation and secondly, on the care of our space ship earth. Reference to these two matters is mostly sadly lacking in the Budget. Among those who have been blamed for inflation are consumers, wage earners, financiers, land developers and governments. I want to show why the major blame must be laid at the door of the Federal Government and the faceless financiers who direct it, and that the least blame should be laid at the door of the consumers and wage earners. Today's Australian Financial Review', which is a daily newspaper from the staid Fairfax stable, scotches the idea of scapegoating our arbitration system, which is still something admired by other countries. For example, wage arbitrators must take into account the productivity of the worker, the profitability of the industry and the paying capacity of the consumer. It is no good trying to lay blame on the arbitration system. Since he has been sitting down with  Mr Robert  Hawke and others besides his Cabinet colleagues, a remarkable change has come over the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in this regard. Like the arbitration commissioners and unlike most honourable members opposite, he now realises that wage earners are not the sole agents of inflation. In fact, they are usually its victims because in general the arbitrators can award what they consider a just return for only one moment of time. They do not restore wage justice for the intervals between the setting of those awards. 
I realise, of course, that pensioners, farmers and others who have no way of enforcing their demands or of appealing to arbitration, except through the ballot box, will not be very sympathetic with people who want to achieve awards and increases in their rates of pay by collective bargaining. In particular, rural employers will resent gains for those employed in rural industry. But the employees have suffered the same relative lowering of incomes, along with their employers, and they do not even now, and they will not in the foreseeable future, enjoy the benefits of a 40-hour week. I return then to the editorial in today's 'Financial Review', in which the editor dismisses the suggestion of a wage freeze as a curb to inflation because in Great Britain this measure turned out to be a trick. Although there was a freezing of company dividends, profits were still rising unchecked and were salted away in the form of tax free capital gains. 
I therefore make my first specific criticism of the Budget. It fails to plan for Australia's economic strength by imposing a graduated selective capital gains tax. The example in Great Britain is one well worth following. For example, for administrative simplicity in that country no return on capital gains is required for investments under 500; they do not have to be declared. There are lots of ways in which this system can be streamlined and made effective. In fact, most developed and many of the developing countries now have a capital gains tax, and so should we. This would really be getting at one of the causes of inflation. Tt would not hurt anybody and it would not create hardship. In fact, it would do much to alleviate the hardship suffered by social service dependants, whose plight has been brought so much to the fore in this debate by honourable members on this side of the chamber. 
As for a capital gains tax applied to land developing, there should be consultation with local and State authorities which wish to emulate Canberra by applying a community betterment land tax or by they themselves entering the land development industry, as the New South Wales Government now appears to be doing under pressure from its Labor Opposition. All of these matters should be considered in consultation between the 3 levels of Government. This would eliminate the nature of the major cause of inflation and the scandalously high price of land which has been caused by an artificially created scarcity of land and shameless exploitation by private enterprise under the laissez-faire policy, mainly again of the Federal Government. In fact, not only does the Federal Government fail to help the States and local authorities in this regard; it is even walking out on its obligation to posterity in the Australian Capital Territory by alienating public land here. 
I turn my attention now from speculators to financiers. There is also the grossly inflating effect of crushing interest rates. It is true that the Government recently has made low interest loans available to farmers who have been rejected by the banks, but there have been precious few of these loans. Very often farmers are not considered to be viable. There is still a reluctance to use revenue grants for public works which are not carried out by the Commonwealth itself, lt is all very well to use revenue money for Commonwealth public works, but this cannot be done in the States. The States are made to pay the money back to the Commonwealth with interest. Local authorities also have to pay back to the Commonwealth, or to whoever lends money, the full amount of the loan plus interest. This is interest on investments which very often are not bringing an immediate profit but which are returning more revenue to the Federal Government. The Commonwealth charges the Queensland Government, for instance, 6 per cent interest on a loan to build a power house which will be responsible for much of our aluminium and other export earnings. 
The Commonwealth charges the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority interest on revenue money which is spent to build up the Snowy Mountains scheme. The Authority must pay this back to the 
Government with interest. Yet this is a scheme to ensure cheap power and more irrigated farm land in our most populous States and the Australian Capital Territory. We force the States and local authorities into the loan market for funds for health, houses and schools instead of realising that these are national assets which should be paid for out of national revenue when it is available. Eventually these projects must be paid for that way. Some orthodox economists protest that governments must be restrained in essential building by clamping these interest charges on top of the capital cost; otherwise, we are told, the Government will overspend and create shortages of labour and materials, building costs will skyrocket, and there will be increasing use of overtime, insufficiently skilled labour on this type of work and overaward payments. This argument can hold water only if there is competition with luxury building. Of course, if we allow luxury building to continue unchecked it will result in perfectly sound and valuable and roomy banks and insurance offices being pulled down so that buildings of greater prestige may be constructed. These new buildings are air conditioned and half empty. 
Where did the money come from for these buildings? This is the cry that has been thrown across this House: Where will we get the money to rebuild the dilapidated and overcrowded schools and offices where kiddies sit on their ports in the lobbies or in an office because there is no school room available; where there are people in hospital beds in corridors with the head of one bed touching the foot of another because there is no money for hospital buildings? What about all the problems with housing young families and old people? The Government says: 'Where will we get the money?' I suggest there would be precious little doubt where we could get the money if we stopped building some of these empty skyscrapers, these prestige buildings, and pulling down good buildings with many years of life in them. The people who are struggling to pay off the interest on schools, houses and hospitals to governments are the same people who buy the insurance, the same people who have their homes and household effects in hock to the banks and the hire purchase firms owned by the banks and provide the money for them to build skyscrapers. It is the same struggling people who are providing the capital to build these useless, redundant and luxury buildings. 
A government which cannot see this or which washes its hands of the situation when it is vitally involved in banking and interest policy, in homes and. hospitals, in schools and in the general infrastructure which depends on public finance is not fit to hold office in the 1970s. We should be placing tax, interest and lending restraints on the replacement of buildings which are demolished during their- useful life. We should require the custodians of the savings of our citizens to make a minimum percentage of those savings available at minimal rates for public works and in times of unemployment or when we are using excess resources - resources such as wool which is over supplied- or when there is an excess of production as there is at General MotorsHolden which is retrenching workers. There should be no cry that there would be inflation by the use of central government finance for public works to use up this excess capacity; these surplus resources. 
The Commonwealth Bank should enter the field of hire purchase finance for approved types of investment in open and free competition with the private finance houses and with the trading banks but charging half the rate of interest that is now charged under hire purchase for essential goods such as household effects and the family car. The cost of the Labor Party's proposed national health and superannuation insurance scheme could be met by measures like this and no-one would object to the small compulsory premiums which would replace the very high premiums that are currently required for voluntary health insurance. Where there is a shortage of money and when the argument is used that we must use large interest rates because money is in short supply - and this is what we will be told in a few months when there is a recession - it is time to take notice of Milton Friedman of Chicago who suggests that we should start to issue money at the same rate as the growth of our national products so that we do not have these unrealistic and enormous interest rates. There is an almost total want of a government plan to shepherd Australia's scarce resources. 
This is the second point 1 want to make: There is a shortage of resources on this planet which vitally affects Australia. This was tragically revealed in the Prime Minister's reply to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  when our first citizen spoke in this House of the fallacies of Thomas Malthus and  Dr Ehrlich.  This Dark Ages thinking has shocked leaders of thought throughout the nation. If they had only known the Prime Minister was thinking so far back in history would the Father of the Year award not have been kept for  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet who has agreed with  Dr Ehrlich  on the need to reverse our festival march towards universal squalor? If an award had to be given to the Prime Minister it should have been the order of the three witless monkeys. He sees no warning, hears no warning and speaks no warning of the evils we are creating. He is blind to the protein starvation in Bengal or treats it as a mirage.  Sir Paul  Hasluck in the more lowly job of Minister for External Affairs promptly sent 15 times as much money to India during the Bihar famine as this Government has sent in aid for the world's greatest disaster in Bengal. Our voluntary organisations have raised almost as much as the Government forwarded. New Zealand has done better. 
Our Prime Minister cannot hear mothers weeping for the one infant in two who dies before school age; so he treats them as mere moving pictures - dramatic hallucinations. He does not read of the near half of the world's population which does not go to school or of the steady rise in world illiteracy; and as a result we still rely mainly on private schools in Papua New Guinea. Who will follow the imaginative lead of Kemal Ataturk who brought the alphabet to Turkey and made the people hold up their heads and say 'We can read a newspaper'. In his VIP aircraft jetting to the sprawling sores of Sydney he does not see the rape of the countryside by the affluent urbane minorities of the world. He is unaware that Americans who represent almost onesixteenth of the earth's people gobble up one-fourth of the earth's steel and fertilisers, two-fifths of its wood pulp, over a third of its fuel, a fifth of its cotton and a tenth of the farm land outside their own shores. As we exploit less and less rich mineral ores experts are predicting a ten-fold increase in the prices for at least 9 base metals in a few years. 
The mushrooming greed for powerproducing fuel is creating a heat disposal problem. New York's power supply company has stopped its Sim a year urging of people to use more electricity and has switched to a 'save a watt' campaign. By 1980 it states that it will be running out of mainland cooling water and will have to build ocean floating nuclear stations. Some may say: 'Why worry if we can get one hundred times as much energy from fast breeder reactors or fusion plants burning sea water? We can support 10 billion people, desalinate the sea to get the water and mine low grade ore in granite.' This is true. We will probably be mad enough to do it. But this will most likely raise the earth's atmospheric temperature by 3.5 degrees centigrade. Most likely it will melt the polar ice caps. Most likely it will flood most of earth's cities. In less than a century dust bowl farming has doubled earth's wastelands. If honourable members think it cannot happen here they should ask the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  how the building trade is doing in the rural west of his electorate. If he looks at you blankly it is not because he is now a member of the Country Party; it is because there are not many buildings left to see out there in the dust bowl. 
If all the arable land on earth were cultivated we would be able to feed 3.7 billion people at European standards. That is what the earth's population will be next year. From there on starvation will be inevitable. It will be increasingly the rule whatever we do short of reducing earth's population. If this is disproving Malthus, I would like to know what proof of his theories would be required. The vaunted green revolution has barely slowed the slide. The world needs a population policy. That is why I asked in my question on notice what this Government will do in response to the call from the International Planned Parenthood Federation. Will we join countries like Finland, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States in massive aid to countries with their population planning? 
I do not have time to discuss the backward thinking that has come from honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who can see in apartheid only a sort of brotherly love. I have not had time to go into a hundred and one other things in relation to the Budget because I think that this matter is more important and more urgent. The most disgusting thing that has come forward in this Budget session has been the answer given by the Prime Minister in question time when he said that he thought it would not be worth reading  Dr Ehrlich's  books because he had heard too many of these prophecies when he was a student 22 years ago. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he prepare a position paper on Vietnam arguing Australia's objections to the seven-point plan of North Vietnam for settlement to the Indo-China war and outlining Australia's alternatives. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What studies have been made to determine the effects of the proposed Armco Steel Works on (a) timbered frontages now facing a proposed tourist resort, (b) sea water temperatures considering also the effects of the proposed nuclear power house, (c) air and water pollution, (d) ecological changes and (e) the consequences for fishing, swimming, boating and camping in the area. 
asked the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
Is it the Minister's endeavour to encourage people from overseas to travel in Australia, especially to some of the unique outback areas. 
In this regard, has the Queensland Government over the past 2 years assisted in the development of Carnarvon Gorge National Park, an area rich in natural formations and Aboriginal artefacts, by providing a ranger station, kiosk, cabins and caravan park. 
Has his attention been drawn to the poor communications in this area which, in wet seasons, is cut off from telephones and a primitive airstrip and, in the depth of the gorge, is also out of radio communication. 
Will the Minister take up this matter with the Postmaster-General. 
Will the Minister consider recommending to the Government the making of grants to the States with the object of extending to rapidly developing tourist areas, which are less readily accessible, the mantle of safety which is readily available in the outback regions. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he present to the House copies of letters exchanged on 29th April 1965 between the Australian Ambassador and the Prime Minister of 
South Vietnam and earlier documents which prompted this exchange. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Road Safety Council of New South Wales has declared that disc brakes are a necessity. 
Can he also say whether the Commonwealth or any State government requires safety standards for (a) brakes, (b) tyres, (c) steering, (d) collapsible steering column and chassis construction, (e) suspensions and (f) other vehicle components. 
If so, where are those standards laid down. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he consider providing under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act for the forfeiture of so much of the allowance as would cover the cost to the public purse of the by-election rendered necessary when a Member of the House of Representatives retires voluntarily before bis current term of service expires. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he take steps to amend the capital gains exemptions provisions in the income tax law so that a rural lands developer will no longer earn several times the value of each of his properties by re-sales over a period of years tax free while submitting tax returns as a primary producer showing nc net earnings each year. 
Will he lake steps to abolish the distinction in the law between a person who acquires property for the dominant purpose of profit-making by sale and one who acquires it for the purpose of profit-making by primary production but makes no net income on the property as a primary producer and by virtue of ploughing back production profits in tax free development works sells the property for several times the original value, and repeats the process with a series of properties so that he earns hundreds of thousands of dollars tax free within less than a decade. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Companies Ordinance of Norfolk Island been amended to curb tax avoidance by companies based on the island. 
If so, could the remedy have been achieved by a change in Commonwealth law. 
Can he say whether a majority of residents of the Island signed a petition, supported unani mously at a large public meeting, opposing the " Ordinance. 
Have a majority of elected councillors on the island resigned in protest over the Ordinance. 
Will he extend domestic principles to Norfolk Island at least tothe extent of including the island in a Commonwealth electorate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he intercede to persuade the sporting bodies concerned to discourage participation of Australians in sport with racially selected opponents? 
If so, will he suggest to the Australian Board of Control for International Cricket that it invite to Australia an alternative team such as a non-racially selected South African team, a Rest of the World team or the Indian team? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has be been approached by the State Premiers for reimbursement of several million dollars spent to ensure the success of the recent Springboks' tour and for payment of the anticipated expenses if a South African cricket team, selected by political decree on racial and not sporting criteria, is allowed to come to Australia. 
Can he say what expense was involved for police protection during the recent tour in respect of extra pay, allowances, travel, accommodation, leave forfeited and special constructions, 
Have police commissioners expressed fear of increased suburban crime if the understaffing of police stations which occurred during the tour is repeated during a cricketing tour. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. What is the acreage of the Simpson Desert that is to be sold at 20c an acre? Is this an area which has unique and attractive fauna and flora? Will the Minister reserve for my wife and me 2 acres for which we have a higher bid of 50c? Will he set aside one acre for every other Australian who offers 25c in order to save the Simpson Desert from being turned into a cattle run for foreign exploiters and perhaps thereby into a dust bowl, which is the impending fate of much of the dry grazing areas of Australia? 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has his facts wrong and his heart in the wrong place. First of all, he made the false statement that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to having any bases in Australia. The Australian Labor Party is opposed to having foreigncontrolled bases in Australia. Members of the Opposition made this clear in this session of Parliament when they said that we want Australian control of bases that have been set up in this country by the United States of America. 
If we had control of the bases we would know what they were about. The Minister for Defence also said that the Opposition is opposed to national service. The Opposition is not opposed to national service if there is a threat to Australia. This was shown when the Australian people and the Government's own supporters in this House turned against the Parties represented in today's government, threw them out and put into .power a Labor government which did introduce national service even for service beyond Australian shores where there was a threat to Australia. 
It was not too late. We did not have the Japanese coming down to the Brisbane line, as the honourable member who has just interjected perhaps would have liked to see happen, and which no doubt would have happened if his Government had remained in power. The Labor Government managed conscription not only for the armed forces but also for everything else. There was more complete mobilisation in Australia than in any nation in history. One person in 7 of our population was under arms and in uniform. The Opposition is not opposed to national service. It is opposed to conscription for an immoral, illegal and unwarranted warlike action which the Government refuses to call a war because it knows that no legal war has been declared. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  reminds me that Prime Minister Menzies in 1941 bravely promised that 
Australia would defend Thailand. However, he did not say with what. There was nothing to defend Thailand with in Australia and within 2 months of that statement the Japanese attacked Thailand and, of course, Australia was not there. In 1951 or thereabouts, the same Prime Minister told us: 'We have to be ready for war in 5 years'. Of course, this was done in the context of an election campaign, where election fever had to be generated over some kind of issue and the issue was the downward thrust of China between the Pacific and Indian Oceans. The National Service Act, with which we are now concerned, was brought in in that year. So we had national service and we were told to be ready for war in 5 years. Now we have our war, we are getting out of Vietnam, and we are to reduce the numbers that we are conscripting. The Minister for Defence says that we must ensure against emergency and that we must have a reservoir of trained soldiers. Must we have a reservoir of people conscripted against their conscience? ls this necessary in peacetime? John Curtin waited until the islands encircling this continent were occupied by menacing forces and until the bombs and shells of the Japanese forces had fallen on this country before he adopted conscription. John Curtin went to his supporters who stood by him loyally in every State, every branch, and every wing. Every aspect of the Labor movement got behind him and said: 'Yes, we will support a change of Labor policy to allow conscription for service outside Australia up to the equator1. His conscription was urgent, imperative and effective. 
The electors who had the wool pulled over their eyes by the capitalist Press at the end of the war and turfed Chifley out. The Minister for Defence has told us that we cannot turn our Services on and off like a tap. The government of the day certainly could not in 1941. Australia had to get John Curtin to do it. 
We on this side of the House have never opposed adequate defence for Australia. But we maintain that if we are the great democracy that we claim to be and if this is a land worth defending and fit for people to live in, we do not have to push people at the point of a bayonet to serve and defend this country. This country has proved in 2 world wars that it is ready to defend itself. The people of Australia have never been backward in volunteering to defend their friends, brothers and relations overseas. We had an excellent record in World War II. We had the best record of any nation of conscripting and volunteering men to serve in the defence of freedom. But one thing we did not do was to force people from every walk of life, if the marble rolled up, to go in and serve. This Government is doing this. 
I would prefer the Curtin system. When I turned 18 years of age I happened to be a medical student. My fellow students and I were told that the government preferred us to stay in our course, which was speeded up to a 5-year course instead of one of 6 years. We undertook a few extra terms and we stayed there to complete our courses. 
The Minister for Defence has told us that students can get a deferment. Certainly they can get a deferment. But when they are through their courses and graduate as doctors or dentists or whatever they are, they then have to go and fight.. Some doctors in my electorate asked me what would be their chances of serving in a medical corps if they were conscripted and if they passed the medical test. I put this to the Minister and the Minister replied that it would depend on how many vacancies the Army had. This is not what John Curtin did. If he had men trained and with certain skills who would be useful in the defence of this country he knew what those skills were. But this Government says: 'One in all in', with one very curious exception which I will come to shortly. It is to do with the clergy. However, in the meantime I want to refer to the young men who were mentioned in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and whom our amendments have been designed to relieve. They are not being forced to fight at the point of a bayonet but they are enduring something equally as ruthless and barbarous to us - a 2-year gaol sentence. Their names are Charles Martin, Garry Cook and Geoff Mullen. I do not have time to read statements by all of them. However, honourable members opposite should listen to some of these people instead of making grand statements such as that made by the Minister for Defence who said that opposition to the call-up has not been shown by those affected directly. This is a direct quote from what was said by the Minister in this place tonight. It is all very well to quote statistics but the man who objects is more than a statistic. Geoff Mullen states: 
Whenever  1  do something I like to think that I have a sufficient and rational reason for my action. Whenever I refuse to do something, it is most often simply because I see no reason to act. At this time  1  see no rational or sufficient reason why I should comply with the National Service Act Indeed, there would appear to be positive reasons why I should oppose conscription with all the energy that I can muster. 
The National Service Act is more than merely irrelevant to my or any other person's well-being, lt is in fact detrimental in every respect to those it affects. And it affects every Australian. It affects politicians in that its success breeds a greater arrogance and concomitantly a lesser regard for what might be regarded as the inalienable freedom of any man. 
It affects the average Australian to the extent that he becomes indifferent to the rights of others- 
Just as the Minister for Defence was when he made the stupid statement, that those directly affected do not oppose it -  and thereby loses a precedent for respect of those rights he regards as his own. If the Government will not guarantee the freedom of  20-year-olds,  why should they later be concerned about yours. You are no more important to them than any young man. 
But most of all the National Service Act corrupts young men (and it is no Socrates). The evil of conscription abides in the very nature of the system. Conscription in any form destroys what is finally the essential human faculty, the ability to make important decisions for oneself. 
Conscription will not build a greater Australia. It will merely obliterate the difference between an Australian's 'freedom' and that of a citizen in a totalitarian slate. To prevent our being  enshackled  by communism, we will  enshackle  ourselves, (or is this what democracy means - the prisoners running our gaols?) 
I could read a statement from Brian Ross who was gaoled but before I do I would like to read from page 292 of The Documents of Vatican II'. 
I have every respect for the sentiments of the Holy Father. 
I am very indebted to my Lord Bishop Rush of Rockhampton, who gave me this publication because of his concern with these issues which I discussed with him. The publication states: 
Moreover, it seems right that laws make humane provisions for the case of those who for reasons of conscience refuse to bear arms, provided, however, that they accept some other form of service to the human community. 
Many, many times in this Parliament 1 have heard the honourable member for Bass, who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and many others appealing to the Government and quoting these young men as asking to have some alternative to military service. The Government says that this is not a matter of conscience. It says that these young men can easily go into the Citizen Military Forces if they want to escape going to Vietnam. What an alternative for conscience! The Government, says the Minister for Defence, has taken all reasonable steps to make it possible for people to avoid service in Vietnam by deferring callup and by resettlement loans, etc. The curious exception I refer to is for the clerics. Why do they not have deferment and resettlement loans? Are they going to be less effective priests because they have seen service in the Army? If so, perhaps we should cast some doubts on the remarks that have been issuing from the other side of the chamber that service in the Army makes a man of you, that it gives you an insight into real life. Surely a priest, a minister or a teacher in a holy order would be glad of such experience. But no, they must be exempted. 
They do not have to accept it. That is a subtle difference. Perhaps we should amend the National Service Act so that everybody else - all other students - do not have to accept it. Why should just theological students be exempt? Are medical students less valuable than theological students? Are agriculture students less valuable? Are apprentice electricians or ambulancemen. less valuable? Why are they, or all those providing the essential services, not exempt? 
We heard on today's news that the New South Wales Government is to make it illegal for anyone to strike if he is engaged in an essential service. One of the news commentators says that this takes in 55 per cent of the employees. We had better exempt the 55 per cent. I would be very glad to move an amendment - I will not because I know it would be an exercise in futility and the Government numbers would defeat it - but I would be happy to see the Government bring forward an amendment of that kind to change the exemption for the clergy and theological students to include all students and all those engaged in essential services. 
I see. It may be just a thoughtless tradition going back to the Middle Ages. But as far as I am concerned, it is an exercise in humbug and kow-towing to that part of the establishment represented by the established churches. I think that if that was not the position and if some of these clergy and students were serving members of the armed forces they would be searching their consciences a little more closely, as I have suggested the Minister for Defence should, and speaking to some of these young gentlemen who have objected to this Act. Perhaps they would be looking a little more thoughtfully at this document from which I read earlier entitled 'The Documents of Vatican II'. 
If it is true that the Government is quite happy for all these young men to go into the Citizen Military Forces and not to enter the serving forces overseas, why then is it necessary to have so many extra young men in the Army? The Minister for Defence suggested that it is because we must have a reserve of skill. I am a little perturbed by a statement made by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who said . that this exemption provides for rural people because it allows them to fulfil their commitment under the Act while still working on the home territory, on the farm. The reason I am particularly disturbed - and I cannot give names in the Parliament because I have no documentary evidence - is that I have had reports from a rural area. I am not even prepared to state just where the electorate is, but if the 
Minister wants to inquire further 1 will give him details. The information is that at a Young Country Party meeting some of the young gentlemen were having quite a laugh about the barrel when their numbers came up because they knew that the local establishment would show them as having registered for CMF service before their numbers came up. 
It is a very grave accusation. I am not accusing the Country Party and I am not accusing any person. I am quoting an allegation that I think should be looked into. If the Minister cares to follow up the particular area I will be very happy to tell him where it occurred. I think we should keep our eyes open for this sort of thing. It is a possible way in which the National Service Act could be abused and in which this loophole could be abused. 
My son has received a deferment because of his studies. I trust that when those studies are over our commitment in Vietnam will be over and he will not be called upon to prove the statement he wrote on his enrolment, that he would consider an order which could involve him in service in Vietnam as an illegal and unlawful order. I sincerely trust before that . time comes this stupid idea of conscription will long ago have been swept under the carpet where it belongs and forgotten in a country which claims to be democratic and which claims to be seeking in equality the good life for all its citizens. There is no excuse for the birthday ballot. In the short time left to me I will read a little of an actual transcript of a Crown Solicitor's questions which shows that some ot these people are not receiving a fair go. Conscientious Objector X completed his registration for national service in February 1968. Here are some of the questions he faced:  . . 'How many days do you work? I'd suggest to you that you do not comply wilh the Tcn Commandments. The fourth Commandment says Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Do you comply with that Commandment? You know what day the Sabbath is. Well, I'd suggest to you the Sabbath is Saturday. Well, if it's Saturday, you don't keep it holy. What about killing animals? What about vegetables? What about mosquitoes? Why do you destroy them. Why can't you just shoo them out of the door? What about flies? What about snakes? What about things like alligators, crocodiles attacking you? You work for Y'? Y sells meat? You are helping them as much as a non-combatant would be helping someone to kill, aren't you? You cannot help what another person does, can you? Well, why can't you be a non-combatant? You wouldn't be telling someone to go and kill someone, would you? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What studies have been made of the long range costs and benefits to the Australian community of new metal industries allowing for the escalation of costs and depletion of natural resources, the effects on soil and ocean ecology, and the diseconomies of scale and greater war vulnerability in concentrating populations near existing cities or in scarce recreational areas. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Will he appoint teachers familiar with modern audio-visual methods to advisory bodies concerned with science and library grants to secondary schools so that language laboratories and other equipment for modern teaching of languages can be incorporated in science blocks and libraries at secondary schools in proportion to the needs of individual schools. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Government review its practice of refusing lo grant retrospective payment of supplementary allowance when there is good reason for the delay in application and the evidence in support of the claim is reliable. 
asked the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Can he say whether more mainlanders than Tasmanians use Lake St Clair-Cradle Mountain National Park as a recreation resort and if this is likely to occur also at Lake Pedder if it is not despoiled by Tasmania's Hydro-Electric Commission. 
Can he also say whether the Commission's decision to use Lake Pedder as a canal from the Serpentine Dam is due to the extra cost of by passing the Lake for the Gordon Power Scheme. 
Will he confer with the Tasmanian Government on the possibility of saving Lake Pedder with the help of low interest loans to Tasmania from the Commonwealth Bank. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Under what conditions are servicemen in Vietnam (a) obliged to disobey and (b) informed of their obligation to disobey those orders which are contrary to international law. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he consult with the Minister for Health with a view to laying down minimum standards of calorie and protein intake for the Territory of Papua New Guinea in accord with paragraph (18) (d) of the Strategy for the Second Development Decade. 
If so, will he further seek delineation of nutritional needs for the Territory in terms of preserving or restoring other food elements and qualities which are often reduced by cooking and processing methods, having regard to current research studies on the immunity of certain of these people to certain diseases of civilisation. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter, upon notice: 
Did he receive letters dated 3rd and 19th July, 1971 asking whether the Government had refused visas to East German and North Vietnamese sporting teams. 
Were these letters acknowledged on 3rd August, 1971 with a statement that they were receiving consideration. 
Were the questions raised in the letter still unanswered when the Minister for Immigration replied to my similar question without notice on 7th September, 1971 (Hansard, page 808). 
When may  Mr 1.  Smillie of 3 Renniks Street, Sunnybank 4109 expect a reply. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully, sheweth: 
That arms races, in which Australia is involved, have war as their natural conclusion. 
That peace movements have never succeeded except by general acceptance of a superior jurisdiction by previously independent sovereign regimes and their followers. 
That the size of the supreme unit of government has progressed, along with increasing communications, bringing mutual understanding and the means for unified administration to nations consisting of units formerly alien to each other. 
That for the survival of mankind and the lasting security of nations, sovereignty over the means of making war must be passed to the citizens of a unitary world. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray thai your honourable House will give leadership to other citizens by declaring adherence to the general principle of working for a democratic legislative, judicial and executive authority, with constitutionally, limited and adequate powers over armaments and disarmament, and over diversion of a proportion of war budgets to a world development fund. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I would like to place on record that statement of a young man who served his time in gaol under this Act. The first man committed was Brian Ross. He said: 
I wonder what has happened to freedom, democracy and justice in Australia, when we have twenty-year-olds being made staves, killers and dead. 
Can the state ask people to kill, let alone tell them to kill? And can it ask them to die, let alone tell them to die? To whom does life belong? And to whom does an individual's mind and body belong? Is there such a thing as equality? Shouldn't we all, twenty-year-olds to sixtyyearolds, men and women, be conscripted, if anyone is? 
We hear our government talk a lot about freedom, and then let it create a National Service Act. Are we 'God' to decide what is right for the Vietnamese? Anyway Australia's involvement in Vietnam is more than unfortunately foolish and lacking in reason. It is a brutal infliction of pain and suffering on an innocent people, and  a  criminal destruction of life and natural resources. In this case, it is common sense to learn from Nuremburg: A soldier's responsibility must go (for his own sake) further than just obeying orders. Nations are also judged on their actions, as are the people who allow their leaders to abuse humanity. 
Can we ever have peace on earth? I will just say that violence has had  a  fair trial. Perhaps, and I think it may be so,  a  conciliatory approach and non-violent resistance to evil might be a more successful method for maintaining right. Everyone must admit that war, especially now, is very foolish. Yet the country's faith and money still goes towards war machinery; next to nothing is spent on removing the causes of war - fear, mistrust, greed and extreme nationalism. 
The resources of the world must belong to everyone, not just the fortunate few, who by a mere fluke happen to be born in rich countries. I fail to see that Australia, and other wealthy nations, should selfishly, protect their own standards of living at the expense of the poor people who starve until they die. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! 1 point out to the honourable member that he is straying a little from the clause which is before the Committee. 
If the Committee will bear with me, there is very little more, and the point is that I want to put succinctly the case of one young man involved with this very Act. I believe that if we are to see the justice of the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  it is right that the House for once should listen to the words of a young man affected by this legislation, to listen to the protests of one man who has been forced, against his will, into the situation which this amendment seeks to correct. I believe he has the right to be heard in this chamber if there is such a thing as freedom of speech left for these young men in this country. Brian Ross continued and said: 
This is what we do; this is, of course, where our interests lie. 
Aren't we a great and, if I dare use the word, Christian' nation? I don't believe in waving flags. I have no wish to be inhuman. I don't wish to be a rebel or lend myself to radical activities. The present government is trying to force me into actions of an incredibly evil and extremist nature. So bow can I be a national serviceman? 
I don't believe in breaking the law either, except when the law is as uncivilised and immoral as the National Service Act; then I have a duty to break it, and see that such laws are repealed. 
The state will be avenged by my two year term in gaol. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the United Nations request for suggestions by 1st July 1972 regarding review of the United Nations Charter, will the Government publish a summary of the issues which the Australian public should discuss and upon which Australians should make submissions to him before the Government decides whether or not to accede to the request. 
Will the Government request the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs to call for these submissions at public hearings and to report thereon to Parliament before the Government decision is taken. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is production in excess of market demand in almost every primary and secondary industry in Australia. 
If so, does the Government expect increased production resulting from increasing efficiency and productivity to reduce cost and price inflation. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that religious and employer associations are exempt from taxes when they conduct commercial enterprises including laundries, wineries and distilleries. 
If so, will he have this exemption reviewed and a report on the matter brought before Parliament. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether consumers are enticed to buy cars by the use of psychologically tested means which appeal to biological drives in ways which are contrary to drives found conducive to road safety. 
If so, what action has been taken by the Commonwealth and State Governments to control or counter this type of advertising. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government opposed the call of the United Nations to governments to boycott racially selected international sporting teams. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented today in the reply by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt). 
Yes. The Minister claimed that 1 had showed political irresponsibility in asking people to protest to him about the sale of land in the Simpson Desert. In the course of his reply he stated that the part of the Simpson Desert in Queensland is reserved as a national park. The national park in the Simpson Desert in Queensland has rectangular boundaries running east-west and north-south. It does not comprise the whole of the Simpson Desert. The Minister in his reply today and in the letter which he has tabled has admitted that the land for sale is in the vicinity of the Simpson Desert, which was contrary to his earlier statements in this regard. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to reply briefly to a few points raised by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  who has just resumed his seat. He said that the Opposition's move is a sign of the let Big Brother do it' philosophy.-. I have not time to quote in great detail from the speech made by the then honourable member for Corio on 4th May 1938 when introducing into this House the National Health and Pensions Insurance Bill, which is still on the statute book but has never been proclaimed, in which he extolled this very concept of the Government taking on a national health insurance scheme for all wage earners. 
That is right; it was Richard Casey, then Federal Treasurer. Such an important matter was it that he was granted 2 extensions of time. He spoke for an hour and a half. The Bill sought to carry out the pledge of the Tory Government and would have provided for what has been done in every other progressive country. This scheme was never accepted because of reasons which honourable members know full well. They have seen them stated in circulars from the organisation of people seeking the abolition of the means test. One reason was that the financial group put pressure on the Lyons Government, to its great embarrassment. This was a group in Melbourne- 
Yes, finance people. The group was known as the Temple Court group, Temple Court being a building in Collins Street which housed finance firms and other large businesses. In great embarrassment the Government backed down. At that time, letters appeared in the Press signed 'Pro Bono Publico' and 'Mother of 10', which were submitted* by Professor Bridgen who had been commissioned by the Government to sell this great insurance scheme to the public and then had to turn around and tell the public that the scheme was no good. All sorts of difficulties, including financial and defence difficulties, were said to be in the way. Any reason was advanced except the Big Brother philosophy, which has been expounded today as the reason for opposition to the Australian Labor Party's similar proposition. 
The honourable member for Isaacs suggests that we give more attention to enrolling people by the use of social workers and charitable agencies In the course of our research, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has arranged to have some of these social workers contacted at leading hospitals in Australia. Other welfare organisations have also been contacted. They say that the use of these people will not work and is an unjustified use of the valuable time of social workers. How are these people to process the claims of 180,000 people or 120,000 people who may contact them? Some of them are itinerant workers, Aboriginal workers or rural workers. How are they to contact them to tell them about this scheme? The result is that about 2 per cent of those eligible enrol. Six per cent of people in the class A category - they are the people who are granted full membership without any waiting period - enrolled, but only 1 per cent of class B persons - that is, those who have to pay part of the membership charges themselves and who therefore must wait for 2 months to become eligible for benefits - enrolled. 
Why would 6 per cent of one group which has no waiting period enrol and only 1 per cent of the other group, for which a waiting period of 2 months is required, enrol? Why did 6 times as many in group A enrol? The reason is that when a patient goes to a hospital, the person assessing that patient for means test purposes in most States asks the patient about his or her income and, if he or she is eligible, asks the patient to join this scheme so that the patient will receive the benefits. But the stay of most people in hospital is less than 3 weeks. The situation with respect to those who must serve a waiting period of 2 months is quite hopeless, so they do not bother to enrol. This is proof of the failure of the scheme. 
Migrants face the additional, problem of language. No more than 25 per cent of eligible migrants enrol. Probably most of those who enrol are from Great Britain which provides us with more than one quarter of our migrants. A brief reference is made to this scheme in 2 pamphlets put out by the Department of Immigration. The pamphlets are written in several languages and are of help to those who face a language problem. But if these people mislay their pamphlets, heaven help them when they reach Australia because the Department of Health provides information written in one language only, English. Some of these migrants file the information away or throw it away because they cannot read the cards on which the information is provided. 
With regard to Aborigines the honourable member for Bendigo referred to a scheme in Western Australia. I am indebted to the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  who obtained details of this scheme for me. Under the scheme in Western Australia that Government gave the AMA 9,000 a year to provide free services for fringe dwelling Aborigines in the south-west of that State. That amount covered about 35 per cent of fees owing to doctors. At the end of a year the doctors would total the amounts owing to them by Aborigines and, as I said, the return on fees owing was about 35 per cent. That grant was raised to $20,000. That scheme was discontinued by the State Government when the subsidised medical scheme was introduced. The State Government said that the Aborigines would be all right as the Federal Government would make them members of medical funds, but it did not work out that way. 
The AMA contacted the State Government and the State Government contacted the Department of Social Services and the Department of Health in Canberra stating that it was not working and with the request that the Commonwealth continue to subsidise Western Australia under the scheme whereby it provided medical services to Aborigines. The Commonwealth said: 'Oh no, the scheme was never intended to cover these people because some of the Aborigines might be earning too much and they would not come within the provisions of the scheme. We cannot do it that way.' There was a lot of correspondence and consultations between the Department of Native Welfare and the Department of Health in Western Australia, the AMA and the Commonwealth departments concerned. I have no doubt that the Minister will be very happy 1o table this correspondence for the information of honourable members. If not the AMA has assured us that it will provide it. 
I cannot deal with every section of the community involved in this scheme or the problems which are involved. The problems are multiple. The people I am referring to very often do not have the educational or intellectual capacity, the time, the money or the emotional serenity because of their poverty to go into the Department of Social Services and work out their average earnings. Some of them could be unemployed for a major part of the year. They cannot work out their gross earnings over a year. They do not know whether they are eligible to receive benefits, under the Government scheme. When they go to the Department of Social Services and get their cards a lot of them turn up at the doctors' surgeries, hand in their cards and say T am entitled to free treatment.' But the doctors say: 'You cannot bring this card here. You have to go to the fund.' These people cannot comprehend this. They cannot comprehend why they have to put in a claim for the medical services to a medical fund, bring the cheque back and give it to the doctor and obtain a receipt. Why all this rot? This whole scheme is not an insurance scheme; it is a misnomer because in these circumstances the funds are merely acting as enrolling agents for the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth pays the whole benefit on the doctor's fee. The beneficiary who does not pay his contribution to a medical fund and who is not required to undergo a waiting period is covered by the Commonwealth not only for the Commonwealth benefit but also for the fund benefit. We have this Big Brother attitude that was condemned by the honourable member for Isaacs. Why riot do it in a simple way? We could give a person a medical entitlement card straight off, as is done when a person becomes a pensioner. Is it wrong for Big Brother to help someone in a simple . way to cut through red tape and prevent unnecessary expense? Hundreds of thousands of dollars a year are going into the private, funds to administer the exchange of a piece of paper which should never have been printed and which should never have been necessary. The machinery of this scheme is in collapse. J do not have sufficient time in this debate to quote specific examples but I will attempt to- 
asked the Minister for 
Supply, upon notice: 
What safety standards, tyre qualities, etc., are specified when calling for tenders for Commonwealth vehicles. 
1 have no knowledge of similar contracts being entered into by other exporters before existing contracts have been fulfilled. 
I have no information on this aspect. 
No, because: (1) the disputes which come to my notice have all been satisfactorily resolved; and (2) in any case, the size of the trade in abalone, although important to certain fisheries cooperatives, is not really very large and therefore would have no appreciable effect on Australia's overall export trade relations with Asia. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he approach the South African Government suggesting that Australians would unanimously welcome sporting teams from South Africa which are selected without regard to race. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister take steps to amend the wording of Item No. 2 in the Medical Benefits Schedule of the National Health Act to accord with Departmental rulings by deleting the words not being an attendance covered by any other item in this Part' and insert in place thereof 'not being an attendance covered by any other item in this part or items 7199, 7200, 7205, or 7206'. 
Will the Minister also take steps to amend items 301 to 402 inclusive and item501 by deleting the words 'a professional service or  a  series or combination of professional services' and inserting in place thereof 'one or more professional services which are not itemised in Part 9 and'. 
If not, will the Minister direct that the Department interpret the existing wordings literally to allow the - Commonwealth benefits excluded by the present interpretations). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister's Department seek to join the New South Wales Department of Health in appointing representatives to the management of the Australian Council on Smoking and Health. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the British Government is investigating the possibilities' of setting aside much more numerous and extensive non-smoking areas in public places. 
If so, will the Minister initiate such investigationsin the Territories and suggest similar investigations to other members of the Australian Health Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether the Health Minister of the United Kingdom supported a Bill to compel printing of health warnings on cigarettes and a reference to this in advertisements. 
If so, will the Minister introduce a similar Bill here. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Were studies made to support the choice of Jervis Bay as a site for new steelworks before Gladstone in Queensland, or a site in Western Australia where resources are cheaper and more plentiful and exporting facilities closer to significant markets. 
If so, where may the results of those studies be obtained. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Is it estimated that one Australian in 20 is destined to die as a result of a traffic accident. 
Are traffic accidents the chief cause of loss of life between infancy and retirement. 
Is one-tenth of Australia's work force employed in supplying, producing, tending or driving motor vehicles. 
1 would like to bring the attention of the Minister to a few items under clause 7 which refers to a schedule of the Act. There are some items which are not actually listed in this schedule but which are in the principal Act and which I think are well overdue for reform and should have been introduced into this schedule. I refer to items 971 and 976, the items relating to the pricing of anaesthetics and to the specialist consultations which are not referred. The points that I wish to make are firstly that it is over a year since I and the surgeons involved in Queensland referred to more than one of the previous Ministers for Health these items 971 and 976 which are not performed under that name in Queensland and are certainly not charged for in Queensland at the rate set out. This schedule purports to set down the most common fee for a State. It is not a most common fee because nobody charges anything like that fee for that item and nobody could possibly do it at that charge. This matter has been brought up again and again with the Minister for Health but all we are told is that it has been referred back to the committee. The committee has had 2 or 3 meetings since and 1 think it is fair to say that the committee should be able to decide in 2 minutes whether it is or is not a common fee as is alleged, lt is not a common fee because nobody charges anywhere near that fee. 
The other point is that the fee for an anaesthetic is based on the common fee for other services performed at the same time - in other words, the services performed by the surgeon and his assistant. The wording is ambiguous and it should be altered. 1 have asked the Minister to alter it but he declined to do so because he felt it was unambiguous. If it was unambiguous doctors would not be charging according to a strict interpretation which is made under these items. In other words, where it says the fee for an anaesthetic should be based on the value of services performed at the same time, it means the services performed by the surgeon and his assistant. The Commonwealth does not accept this interpretation and therefore it should change the wording. It should read excluding the services of the assistant'. It is all very well to say that exactly the same service is performed by the surgeon whether he has an assistant or not. If the Government is going to use that argument, it should recognise that exactly the same service is performed whether it is done by a specialist or by a general practitioner, but the fee for the anaesthetist is varied according to whether a specialist does the operation or a general practitioner does the operation. If it is legitimate to charge a patient more when there is a second doctor present to assist the surgeon then surely there is an argument that this should attract an extra anaesthetic fee just as much as an extra anaesthetic fee is attracted when a specialist does the operation and not a general practitioner. If the Government does not want to interpret it in that way then 1 suggest that it should alter the wording so that it is no longer ambiguous and patients will not have to meet a charge when they will not get the benefit of the common fee based on the wording as it exists. 
My final point is that where a patient goes to a specialist without being referred he gets only the benefit of a general practitioner consultation. 1 think that here again it ought to be spelt out and made clear that either the Government will give the benefit on the basis of the common fee or it will not. The plain fact of life is that it is not a common fee that surgeons charge. When a surgeon gets a patient unreferred he does not charge the general practitioner fee, so it is not the common fee. That is perhaps the one that is the least objectionable because most people realise the position. Nevertheless I think it should be spelt out and made clear in the pamphlets which are circulated claiming that the Government will rebate a percentage of the common fee. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
b he able to say whether several territories In most continents including the States of Minnesota and the Canadian capital have symbolically declared themselves world territory, some flying the United Nations Sag alongside the national flag, some donating a specified percentage of revenues to United Nations agencies, some issuing world citizenship identity cards to citizens who request them proclaiming their right and intention to vote for the legislative arm of a world disarmament and development authority, and some adopting a twin region on a similar lattitude or longitude for cultural exchanges when both are similarly mondialised. 
Has his attention been drawn to a local press sponsored poll after World War II in the Gosford-Wyong district in which an absolute majority of citizens declared that they, favoured world jurisdiction to take responsibility for international security. 
What diplomatic and other steps has the Government taken to promote international awareness, discussion and acceptance of the principle of the democratic rule of law at supranational level. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Has his "attention 'been drawn to the Report of the President's Commission for the 25th Anniversay of the United Nations (the Lodge Report, Stock No. 4000-0261, Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.). 
If so, does it recommend steps towards a stronger United Nations especially as to its peacekeeping capabilities. 
Will he move for discussion of the issues raised in the report by (a) the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, (b) the Parliament and (c) the public. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What are the estimated (a) gross returns and (b) profits, not excluding sums spent on promotion and lobbying, for each company which has received search subsidies in each of the past 10 years, and what were the total subsidies (i) paid and (ii) committed in each case. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has he seen reports of takeovers of the top end of Australia by overseas pastoral and other interests? Has he also seen reports that the extent of these takeovers is not known by the Commonwealth or by the 2 Slates concerned because of the high cost of tracing the distribution of ownership in large areas? Will he arrange for consultations with the States with a view to setting up an electronic data bank accessible to the States and federal authorities to speed up the collection of statistics and to ease the increasing delay and the huge cost of conveyancing which is a major factor in land costs and which occupies nearly SO per cent of the scarce skills of the legal profession? 
Mir McMAHON - I will have discussions with my colleague in the Treasury, and if it is thought desirable I will have discussions too with the States and other authorities, to see whether it is desirable to step up electronic data processing in order to carry out what the honourable gentleman has in mind. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to articles on alcohol in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 5th June 1971. 
Will the Minister investigate the advisability of making alcoholism and its complications notifiable diseases and, in particular, alcoholism in conjunction with injuries, liver disease, peptic ulcer, gastritis, neuropathies, hypertension and chronic bronchitis. 
Will the Minister supplement the antismoking campaign with public education in the degrees of over-use of alcohol and its effects. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he supply details of the outcome of the Supreme Court appeal of  Mr Sobukwe  referred to in his predecessor's reply to question No. 3308 (Hansard 6th May 1971, page 2848). 
asked the Minister for  the Interior, upon notice: 
What is the estimated additional cost to the Commonwealth when a member of the House of Representatives voluntarily resigns at a time other than at the expiry of the term for which he was elected and thereby causes a by-election to be held. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Can he say, whether, in certain areas of disenchantment with the Government, around 99 per cent of enrolled voters voted in the recent elections in South Viet-Nam. 
Can he also say whether accusations of ballot rigging by high officials have any substance. 
Have Australia's allies in Viet-Nam rejected political settlement proposals of Communist spokesmen on the ground that the United States of America would not impose any government on the South Vietnamese people and therefore could not accept the exclusion of Thieu, Ky and Khiem. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth provide accommodation in recent weeks for police in Queensland. 
If so, what is the estimated saving to the Queensland Government. 
What is the estimated cost of publicity and other assistance provided by Australian governments to combat racism in 1971. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Does a policy of protection to inefficient industries reduce export potential ofthose industries and of other industries carrying the cost of that protection. 
Will be investigate ways to offset or reduce those costs of production resulting from price support for other industries, but only to the extent of maintaining viability for efficient producers, so that those least in need will not as at present obtain the lion's share of price support benefits. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia. Belgium, Canada, Italy and Japan move in the United Nations for (a) reaffirmation of the principle that States shall refrain from use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State (b) the fullest possible use by parties to a legal dispute of (i) the World Court, (ii) the good offices of tbe Secretary-General, (iii) improved methods of fact-finding and conciliation, (iv) Security Council subsidiary organs for settling specific disputes and restraining the flow or arms towards tension areas, (c) equitably financed peace-keeping procedures and (d) total disarmament. 
Is there a legal dispute between parties to the Indo-China war including Australia. 
What steps has Australia taken in regard to this war in conformity with each of the specified relevant parts of the resolution. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
What mineral concentrations have been found in the proposed underground water supply for Alice Springs. 
What assays will be made of variations in these concentrations attributable to the cement lining of the proposed pipeline. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this Jake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve 
Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Has an Aboriginal group at the Bathurst Island mission applied for a lease at Bathurst Island? Has this lease been approved by the Minister? Has his Department negotiated with a Japanese company or any other company concerning leases on Bathurst Island for the establishment of a wood chip industry? Does his Department intend granting leases on Bathurst Island for such purposes? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he state in what way the ArmcoKaiser.ThyssenHuette consortium investigating the possibility of a steelworks at Jervis Bay is connected with Interarmco and other organisations trading extensively in armaments without regard to the ultimate destination of those armaments. 
Can he say what conditions have been imposed by Australian authorities on this consortium with regard to patent royalties, export franchises, increasing acquisition of equity by Australians and increasing participation in planning and policy by their proposed Australian employees. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say what is the percentage of ultimate ownership by individual Australians of firms exporting Australian (a) coal and (b) bauxite and Its component derivatives. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, it implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area Is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is  27  per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is Customs Duty of up to  47  per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so asto bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Are Australian iron, steel, zinc and aluminium exports to the People's Republic of China suitable for use in producing armaments? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister follow Victoria's example by making road injuries notifiable disorders in Commonwealth Territories. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What is the number of items upon which tariffs have been (a) applied, (b) varied and (c) discontinued in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available. 
What is the (a) minimum and (b) maximnm . cost of investigations to determine the rate of tariff on one item. 
What is the estimated (a) import value before tariff and (b) tariff raised on items (i) 8a of the Fourth Schedule and (ii) 591b and 1140b of the Fifth Schedule. 
asked the Minister for  the Navy, upon notice: 
Where may public hygiene authorities obtain details, as a basis for assessment of the Navy programme, of the training, organisation, methods and effectiveness of dental hygienists in the Royal Australian Navy and similar workers. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report by Professor Ford in the Medical Journal of Australia of 29th May 1971 that among 13,000 asthma patients in a survey of allergic patients in South Australia most did not smoke, few had destructive lung disease such as emphysema which is common among smokers and only one, who smoked 30 cigarettes a day. for several years, had bronchogenic cancer. 
If so, will the Minister arrange for a graphic dramatisation of these and other facts for short repeated commercial type television films. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives In Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and Inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Aid to Pakistani Refugees: Taxation  Mr WALLIS  - I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease Is. occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That,' as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid .to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful, for a country of Australia's position arid wealth. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $1.00 per capita immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine In East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2.00 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to tha people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I have done some research on the effects of long and abnormal hours of work as discussed in the journal 'Aerospace Medicine'. Work and sleep patterns had not excited the interest of research people until the age of space medicine arrived. 'Aerospace Medicine' for May 1970 summarised the medical experience of the Apollo flights numbers 7 to 11 inclusive. Some of the interesting points raised are as follows: 
The Apollo astronauts have faced the same sleep difficulties as their predecessors. Unfortunately medical knowledge and expertise can provide little assistance in resolving this problem area, for Apollo mission plans must be highly inflexible and constraining. The austronaut must then be integrated into the fixed mission plan as best he can. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Anstralia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  sees things in black and white terms. He said that because members of the Australian Labor Party repudiate the idea that Australia must follow slavishly behind another nation which has been friendly to us in a world war, we are crawling into bed with Communist China. The disease from which he suffers is a very common one in international relations. 
Questions were put to a series of adult people in the United States regarding certain kinds of international behaviour in certain abstract situations which are concrete enough when one looks around the world. They were asked to comment on what the significance of this behaviour would be - whether it would indicate a propaganda exercise, whether it would indicate genuine concern for another nation and so on. The score came out 4 to 1 in favour of the United States as compared with Russia in performing exactly the same kinds of acts in the same hypothetical situations. In other words, given certain situations between nations and asked to interpret the acts of those nations, the people condemned Russia 4 times as often as their own country, the United States. 
Some children in a United States school were shown a picture of a peaceful lane with rows of trees along the edges and they were asked why those trees were planted. When it was explained to them that the trees were in Russia they produced such reasons as 'So that people can hide behind them', 'So that they cannot be seen', 'So that people can escape readily' and so on. When they were told that the trees were in the United States, the children said that they were there for windbreaks and to keep down the dust. This is the sort of disease we see in the honourable member for La Trobe who has just retreated in a hurry from the chamber. 
The image that enemy nations form of each other does, more or less, correspond to reality. If they fail to recognise this, their enemies might be treacherous and warlike and they would not long survive. Nevertheless, the fact remains tha/ this enemy image impedes the resolution of all sorts of conflicts and this is not good enough. The Labor Party says: 'Yes, we will have defence but we will not have a complete sellout to our great and powerful allies. We do not want them walking into Pine Gap on our territory telling us how to run it, telling us what it is for when it suits them, allowing their members of Parliament to walk in when it suits them, allowing our people to go and take some part only when it suits them and telling us that it is not necessary for defence purposes for us to know what is going on.' 
There is no coherence or logic in the attitude which implies that because one puts a sensible and reasonable case for the legal claims of China to the island of Taiwan, Quemoy or Matsu, therefore, one is crawling into bed with somebody. This has nothing to do with the case. It is a sign of a diseased mind which can link 2 actions together, and when this type of disease in the mind is transferred into foreign policy, we get the sort of thing which has led Australia into a disastrous exercise in Vietnam - a hopeless and unwinnable situation where we have taken part in the killing of more than one million people on the grounds that if we had got out and let the Communists have their way a million people would have been killed. We are in Vietnam in support of a regime which has been guilty of all the atrocities and all the police state crimes from which we claim to be saving the people. We have saved the people from such a regime and handed them over to another such regime with the expenditure of their lives and ours and of our treasure and goodwill. 
This year is the International Year against Racial Discrimination. It is the second year of the United Nations second development decade in which we are pledged to do such things as constructively to build up the standard of living and the quality of life in those nations less able to do it without our help. Our total expenditure on wars and war preparations is approximately 6 times the amount we spend on that kind of aid, including all our aid to New Guinea, which represents more than one-half of our civil aid. I might say that New Guinea adds substantially to the Australian economy and contributes far more to Australian companies than it takes from us in civil aid. In other words, from a moral and just point of view, our aid to New Guinea is the least we can do for the boost that our economy receives from Australian investment in New Guinea. So if we are going to be honest about the level of our foreign aid we should reduce it by more than 50 per cent, and we should say that we are prepared to spend on wars and on preparations for wars 10 times as much as we spend on foreign aid at a time when there is no immediate military threat to Australia. That is the proper measure of the disease shown by the honourable member for La Trobe and by the policies of this Government. 
We are also in the second year of the first disarmament decade. Our moves in this direction have again been halting, hesitant and guided by great and powerful friends. We follow in their footsteps as though they were our infallible fathers. We take no initiatives towards the disarming of the world. With reluctance we sign various conventions against the spread of weapons. There is none of the statesmanship that was shown by the last Foreign Minister of a Labor government,  Dr Evatt,  when he fought at the United Nations for the interests of small nations and against the veto which most people now agree is one of the things that is hamstringing any possibility of the rule of law in the world. He fought for an ideal upon which this Government turns its back. 
Small countries, such as the Scandinavian countries, are moving in favour of the reform of the United Nations Charter next year, to move that body towards what it must become if the world is ever to be ruled by law instead of war. What does this Government do? It does not support moves for the review of the United Nations Charter. After repeated questions and letters that I have sent to succeeding Foreign Ministers and Prime Ministers in this Parliament, they have not made any moves towards notifying the Australian people that such a review is on the United Nations agenda for next year. They have not made any moves towards making public what will be an essential change in the United Nations Charter, to make the United Nations a legislative body capable of enforcing laws in those matters which cause disputes between nations and give it democratic elective representation instead of being a diplomats club, as it is at the present time, with no elective power. There have been no moves towards giving the International Court of Justice compulsory jurisdiction in those matters which otherwise lead to war as the only solution left. No moves have been made towards expanding the police force of the United Nations. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the Attorney-General in a speech on 11th September 1971 state that admission of Dick Gregory to Australia's free society would risk security or be contrary to the public interest more than the admission of racially restricted sporting teams whose admission has been proscribed by forums of world public opinion and world security organisations as inimical to security and to the public interest. 
If so, was he expressing the attitude of the Government. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the unanimous findings of the United States' Commission on Rural Poverty (The People Left Behind, 1967). 
If so, has he evidence that the findings do not apply substantially to Australia. 
Does the report conclude that (a) economic but not moral resources are adequate to eliminate tragic, and intolerably costly, rural poverty in  a  prosperous country, (b) relief plans must be  a  joint local, State and Federal government responsibility, (c) public enterprise must be used where necessary to give equal employment opportunities and check the drift to cities, (d) the poor must be actively involved in regional economic planning encompassing rural and urban area's using Federal grants, loans and development subsidies and State and local tax reform, (e) the impact on individuals of schemes for rural amalgamation, submarginal land retirement and moratoriums on new farm land development until demand warrants increased production, must be investigated, (f) food supplements should be available to the hungry, (g) community health centres should be provided to overcome the shortage of rural medical care and (h) pre-school, school, drop-out adult and teacher education facilities should be of the best national standards. 
What has the Government (a) planned and (b) done to (i) assess and (ii) meet these problems in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister consult with State Ministers for Health concerning legislation to prohibit 
sale of cigarettes to or through children, the penalty for default being loss of vending licences, 
cigarette vending machines accessible to children in public places and (c) advertising of tobacco without equal facilities, being provided for anti-smoking publicity. 
Will the Minister consider with State Ministers (a) encouraging and setting- an example to employer and employee organisations to campaign at work places against smoking and (b) giving incentives and assistance to Australia and New Guinea tobacco growers so that they will turn to other work as demand declines, while not forsaking protective tariffs and import restrictions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Government Committee on the Medical Teaching Costs of Hospitals recommend in (a) 1961 and (b) more specifically in 1965 that universities have grants available to meet these. costs. : 
Is it a fact that the Committee reported in 1966, the year it disbanded, that the Commonwealth had directed that these costs be excluded from recurrent grants to be recommended except certain costs of a capital nature. 
If so, has the Universities Commission supported the recommendations of the Committee. 
Has the attention of the Minister been directed to a statement by the Chancellor of Melbourne University on 1st March 1971, that (a) the University cannot find the $370,000 required to pay 350 clinical teachers adequately and (b) he had received no help in response to repeated warnings to governments that clinical teachers had declared in June 1970 that they would strike on 1st March 1971 if pay increases were not made from 1st January 1971. 
Has the Minister given undertakings in this regard to the Victorian Government and the Universities Commission; if so what are they. 
Is the Minister able to say whether the correction nf this apparent anomaly will make it possible for some teaching staff to adhere to the most common fee for their private patients. 
Is it possible that clinical education will be permanently retarded and graduation delayed for students who will be dependent in some cases on the Commonwealth until graduation and whose skills are scarce in Australia if the present situation continues; if so, will the Government take steps to end the impasse. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the television voluntary code on cigarette advertising is frequently broken. 
Do television codes allow advertising of cigarettes, liquor, gambling and ladies' underwear (using live models) after 7.30 p.m. 
Do surveys indicate that 50 per cent of 13- year-olds watch television until 9.30 p.m. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Post Courier of 16th August 1971 on disappearing war relics by aPort Moresby businessman who has salvaged rare aircraft and other relics al his own expense. 
if so, what action has been taken by tha  Government to  forestall any possibility  which could induce the author to abandon suddenly his unique collection. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Was an open liquor licence approved in camera in opposition to the Yirrkala Council of tribal elders and  a  Magistrate's decision. 
If so. will he cause the in camera decision to be annulled and  an  open hearing to be held to allow the Yirrkala people and their mission Supportersto put the case for issuing only a club licence. 
-I present the fol  lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition, of citizens, of the community of the University of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
ThatThe increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being . further restricted to that minimal section, of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be. free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
And your petitioners, as in duty, bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls Weipa bauxite shipped to Europe and the Caribbean at costs 35 per cent below, and Dampier iron ore shipped to Japan at 67 per cent below, the cost per lon to Tasmania. 
Does the Treasury take full account of the low cost of Australian minerals overseas when assessing bona ride income for foreign owned mining and processing companies in Australia. 
Will he make available figures showing costs of production and transport of Australian mineral products and metals as compared with costs of competing suppliers selling (a) in Australia and (b) at overseas processing centres. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' by Tasmania's. Director of Hospital and Medical Services calling for a cost/benefit analysis of the use of prescribed drugs, intensive care for newborn infants with lung disorders, the use of skilled radiographers for simple routine X-rays and the use of nursing homes for persons whose need is rather hostel or home care services.  (2) In view of the Commonwealth's major financial committment to universities, hospitals, nursing homes and doctors, will he confer with the States on this suggestion and the call of  Dr I.  S. Collins for improved medical training in the relevant fields of pharmacology and therapeutics as referred to in the Minister's news release of 6th September 19.71. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has he seen reports that the General Assembly is to consider means of settlement of the dispute between India and Pakistan? Has Australia made any initiatives in this direction? If so, what are they? If not, will Australia take early steps to see that the General Assembly takes all possible steps to achieve a peaceful settlement of this dispute? 
I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for curtailing his speech to allow this debate to continue and give more speakers an opportunity to participate in it. I hope to follow his example. The point which has been made in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is that the measure before the House aims to increase penalties without being specific, without being selective and without being discriminatory as to what is the cause of the drug problem in this country or in any other country. I support entirely the remarks which have been made by honourable members on this side of the House and a great deal of what has been said by honourable members on the other side of the House, but I must take issue with some of the remarks which have been made by honourable members on the other side of the House. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  confined almost the whole of his speech to a recital of the alleged, suspected or known effects of marihuana. Marihuana is not responsible in any country in the world for problems insofar as crime, disruption of families or increases in the road toll are concerned of the magnitude caused by alcohol or heavy drugs. In fact, the use of marihuana has not created any of the major drug problems which are associated with the use of alcohol or of heavy drugs. However, I want to point out that I do not advocate the use of marihuana. I have never advocated the use of it nor of any other drug, including tobacco. 
No. I have not tried tobacco either; has the Minister? 
-I should point out thatI have been engaged in a campaign in Parliament House of daubing one of the cigarette machines with a little bit of factual information, namely, the tar content of the cigarettes contained therein and whether certain brands of cigarettes are made in South Africa. Somebody who is equally as diligent as I have been has been removing these signs. I have got to the tenth one so far. I have also placed questions on the notice paper about what the Government is going to do about the erosion of morale in this country and about making alcohol and cigarettes fashionable and glamorous. Honourable members will be aware of the types of slogans that are used in the advertising of these products. For example, it is said that it is a man's drink or cigarette; it is international; and it is sophisticated. These products are associated with all kinds of fast cars, beautiful and luxurious surroundings, and young and attractive companions. 
A reply was given to me in writing by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  that it is not thought possible to restrict this type of advertising on television because it would embarrass the commercial television stations and because they could not be able to keep going without the finance derived from cigarette advertising.I took up this matter in the House and said that if this sort of back to front logic is to be adopted with regard to advertising then perhaps we should impose a kind of excise on marihuana and even heavy drugs like heroin. Of course, the Press took up my comments and said that I was advertising the legalisation of illegal drugs. It was said that I was advocating the putting of an excise on them to make money. A public apology has been printed and more will bc printed when a particular court case comes to its conclusion. The point I want to make about marihuana is that every one of the effects quoted by the honourable member for Kennedy to prove how much worse it is than alcohol and tobacco are also the effects of alcohol and that suspected effects referred to were specifically repudiated, as the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has told us, by the same authority as the honourable member for Kennedy quoted. The same authority as was quoted as having said that marihuana is suspected of causing deformities has denied that there is any medical evidence of this. I am not saying that marihuana is harmless; I am saying that it is harmful. I advise everybody not to touch it. I say the same of alcohol. I have been guilty of paying for alcoholic drinks for people. 
Now is the honourable member's chance. 1 have bought drinks for people. I have served in my own home drinks that people have taken by choice. But if I lived in one of the parts of India in which there is prohibition I would not do so. I would not offer anybody in Australia a reefer because it is illegal to do so. But if I went to a country where it is the accustomed thing I do not know whether I would do so and I do not know whether some of the people who have been ranting about marihuana would do so. 
As the honourable member for. Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  said, this Bill is a means of empire building by certain people in the customs field. I think it would be unkind to say that they are deliberately doing this. I do think that it would come to the responsible stage of having legislation prepared and passed if there are a few odd individuals in that Department who are just itching to get their hands on a new group of people in order to build up their power. I do not think they are working to that end; 1 think they are genuinely working to cope with the problem just as speakers in this debate from the other side of the House have been. However I point out that this is not the appropriate way to deal with the problem. This is what speakers on this side have been saying: If you want to reduce drug addiction you do not do it by increasing penalties. It may be that the penalties in this new Bill are too mild, and I am not going to say that they should not be heavier. I am not arguing for a reduction of the penalties. I am saying that this is not the way to reduce addiction and that something more widespread, something broader, is called for. 
The civil servants employed by tha Government are not remiss in their approach to this problem. In fact I haw here a number of pamphlets from the National Drug Information Centre. It is a pity that more people did not know about this centre. People can get these pamphlets quite easily from the Australian Capital Territory Health Services in Darwin Place, Canberra. They bear such titles as 'Smoking Drinking and Drug Abuse', 'Motivations for Student Drug Use', 'Talking About Drugs', 'Leading a Discussion', "The Way We Live Now', 'The Needs of Young People', 'The Committed and Uncommitted', Drugs and Their Effect', 'Communication With Youth', "The Drug Dilemma: A Partial Solution' and 'Communicating About Drugs'. And there is a book from the New. South Wales Health Department entitled The Use and Abuse of Drugs'. 
I want to quote from one of the officials. I must stress that this official is not from the Department of Customs and Excise but from the Department of Health, as are the pamphlets. I refer to  Mrs Jean  Nolan, a psychologist with the Department of Health, who spoke to the National Council of Women on the drug problem in perspective on 9th September this year. I want to quote from her in one respect. A report of her address states: 
She said while emphasis In recent years has been on the growing abuse of drugs by young people, drug abuse was more prevalent among older people who relied on alcohol, tobacco and pills for relief or comfort. 
We do not hear this from honourable members on the other side of the House. We have to get this information from their officials, their experts, when they put it into print, as it was in the Canberra 'News' on 10th September. The report continues: 
She quoted a story about a 16-year-old boy who had been caught experimenting with drugs by his father. 
He said: 'My father lectured me about drugs - but he did it with a cigarette in one hand and a whisky in the other, and then my mother went upstairs and took a tranquilliser because she was upset by the argument. 
That is the point that we are making. The report continues: 

 Mrs Nolan stressed the matter was more a people' problem than a 'drug' problem. 
This Bill is more a drug Bill than a people Bill, and that is the thing we are objecting to. We are asking the Government to face this problem as a people problem and not a drug problem. 
Alcohol is the drug that I am mainly concerned with at the moment. An article in the Sydney 'Sun' of Friday, 10th September last. It states: 
Alcoholism should be suspected in young  patients  suffering from peptic ulcers, hypertension 
Which is just high blood pressure, in case people do not know -  and car accident injuries, according to a report released today. 
The report was from a University of Melbourne research team investigating physical illness in alcoholics. It said that these symptoms frequently occurred within the first 5 years of heavy drinking. The team took case histories of 1,000 alcoholic patents at a hospital alcoholism clinic in Melbourne and it analysed data in regard to factors such as age, sex and occupation. It found that heart and chest diseases were more common among men but that women were much more prone to chronic liver disease and brain damage. This is only scratching the surface of the kind of illness that we know and have known for many years is associated with heavy drinking. 
We have heard evidence in this debate that half of all Australian males are heavy drinkers if we define a heavy drinker as a person who has 4 drinks or more a day on average. What is heavy drinking? To relate it to this disease we would have to take out extensive statistics. All my questions over the years to successive Ministers for Health have failed to elicit any attempt to discover any kind of statistics relating alcohol to disease. However leading officials in this country, notably I think the Chief Government Medical Officer in Victoria and in Western Australia, have given a figure of about 50 per cent as the percentage of cases in which alcohol played a part in fatal traffic accidents. In recent years Queensland has made it mandatory that all post mortems by government medical officers must include alcohol analysis of the blood, and no doubt this will be one area where we will have some statistics in time. But the point is that alcohol is a lethal substance let loose on the community without medical prescription. A person does not even have to sign a drug register as he does when he buys rat poison, yet alcohol is killing people at an increasing rate each year because alcoholism is increasing, traffic accidents are increasing, and liver disease and the other diseases to which I have referred in this debate are increasing. 
Getting back to marihuana, there are several consistencies in the data put forward by the honourable member for Kennedy. First of all he lulls us to sleep with this reassurance that alcohol, of course, is not nearly as dangerous as marihuana because it confuses us and we become muddled whereas there is a dangerous clarity which accompanies the hallucinations that come with marihuana. He then goes forth to quote one of the experts. He quoted the sorts of reactions that people have to prove that marihuana is a dangerous drug. People can get panicky; they can have a loss of identity; they can have confusion and hallucinations. Here be is contradicting the very point he made before to distinguish it from alcohol. People get confused with hallucinations, just as confused as the alcoholic and people who are suffering from various other kinds of disorders. Then he quoted to us a very detailed and dramatic story of a young lad who had killed his parents, sister and a couple of brothers. He quoted the police officer who found this lad as saying that this lad, who was normally a quiet sort of chap, was visibly crazed; he did not seem to have any appreciation of what he had done. If that is being in a clear mind I do not know what clarity of mind is. If that lad had clarity of mind he had an appreciation of what he had done. In other words he was just as confused as the alcoholic who goes home drunk and murders his family with a hatchet. He was just as drunk on marihuana. 1 am not saying that marihuana is less harmful in individual cases; 1 am saying that the marihuana problem has not reached the diamensions of the alcohol problem, and it does not look like becoming of those dimensions, because the biggest sector of alcoholism that causes trouble is the alcohol addicts. We have heard in this debate that 5 per cent of males and one per cent of females are addicted to alcohol. We have a problem with alcohol that we are most unlikely to have - perhaps may never have - with marihuana. We will never get io the stage where we have addicts with the chronic effects of alcohol. Certainly, there will be people who will keep on resorting to it. Maybe there will be long range effects about which we do not know yet. At this point, I thank the House for sparing me this time and according to my undertaking, I resume my seat. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What is the estimated revenue received by the Commonwealth from the establishment of the aluminium industry in Australia as (a) taxes on mining and processing Australian bauxite, limestone and coal, (b)net profits and interest paid to the Commonwealth as a result of the increased requirement for electricity in the industry, (c) taxes paid by migrants employed in the industry less their immigration fares and assimilation costs. 
extra taxes paid by manufacturers due to their higher output and wage and profit margins, when using Australian produced aluminium in place of aluminium at prices charged to non-producing countries (3) excise on imports of soda ash and caustic soda and (f) other receipts. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What taxation, duty, primage and other privileges and restrictions apply to one or more (a) oil and (b) rubber companies in Australia as distinct from most manufacturers. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report by Professor Berndt, a Western Australian anthropologist, of the social behaviour of Aboriginal men and women since a liquor store opened on a mining lease at East Alligator River crossing late in 1969 despite objections by the adjoining mission and the Aborigines, and of his claim that the mission would soon be forced to close unless immediate action was taken. 
Ii so, what action has been taken in the matter. 
Will he confer with native spokesmen and the Minister for External Territories and take steps to ensure that liquor is not introduced to populations where it is clearly more damaging than other drugs at present restricted or banned in Australia. 
Will the Government ensure that all estimated revenue proceeds of liquor sales to native peoples, or at least equivalent amounts, are devoted to (a) education of native peoples in the dangers and values of alcohol as a food, drug and poison and (b) medical and social help and rehabilitation for the victims of alcoholism and their dependants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did an amendment to the National Health Act in 1964 provide that (a) co-operative pharmacies, established after 23rd April 1964, could not dispense National Health Scheme prescriptions except to members even when an associated pharmacy with unrestricted National Health Scheme approval ceasesto operate in another State and (b) rebates to members of these pharmacies could not be paid unless membership started before that date. 
If the position is as stated, were these restrictions designed as a deterrent to the over use of National Health Scheme prescribing although employees of the Bank of New South Wales may claim a 75 per cent rebate of medical and hospital charges beyond insurance fund rebates. 
Will the Government extend the right of patientsto choose their type and degree of health insurance cover not only for hospital and medical costs but also for pharmaceutical costs. 
Will he state the degree of over use of pharmaceutical, medical and hospital services by those eligible for rebate. 
Will he explain why the Government enforces a restrictive trade practice selectively on co-operative enterprise and for pharmaceutical services but not on medical or hospital services. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether a one per cent levy on cigarettes would finance (a) equal time on television to combat cigarette advertising or (b) commercial television stations to compensate for loss of cigarette advertising. 
Will the Minister discuss the possibility of such a levy with the Postmaster-General and report his conclusions to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In which States and Territories, and from what date in each case, have (a) crash helmets, (b) safety belts and (c) other items of protective clothing or bodily restraints been required for users of (i) aircraft, (ii) motor cycles and (iti) other vehicles. 
What action has he taken or does he propose to take to initiate legislation or to discuss legislative proposals with the States in regard to (a) the matters referred to in part (1) of the question, (b) coroners being required to investigate safety factors in road fatalities as thoroughly as in aircraft fatalities, (c) licensing standards for surface vehicles being comparable to those for aircraft and (d) penalties on unsafe vehicle manufacturers being comparable with penalties on unsafe drug manufacturers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his' attention' been drawn to reports that the New ' South Wales Government will require at least $75m for infrastructure connected with the proposed Armco-Kaiser-Thysser-Huette steelworks at Jervis Bay. 
Will the 'Commonwealth out of company tax received from the project grant to the State, local and other statutory authorities free of inter-' est charges the amounts necessary to pay off all loan commitments and revenue expenditure on such infrastructure, to ensure the fullest efficiency of the industry, control of pollution and preservation of the ecology and recreational amenities of the area, and ensure that housing and living conditions in the new communities established in .he area will not compare unfavourably wilh those of new planned settlements in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say what revenues from the liquor industries accrue to (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth from each State and Territory from (i) customs, (ii) excise, (iii) licensing and (iv) court fines and other penalties or confiscations, or as a result of breaches of laws concerning the possession, sate, use or abuse of liquor. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the capital values and profits of .oil companies in Australia have risen annually for some years although the values of Australian oil fields are shown on their balance sheets as nil. 
If so, have the capital gains and exported profits of these companies increased faster in total than the capital inflow from the owners. 
Can he say whether those companies are English, French, Dutch and United States owned except for 88 per cent of Ampol Ltd and 65 per cent of H. C. Sleigh Ltd. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What - taxation, duly, primage and ether privileges and restrictions apply to one or more motor vehicle manufacturers as distinct from most manufacturers in Australia. 
Can he say whether the overseas controlled profits of General Motors-Holdens Limited have been sufficient to buy out the initial Australian capital and to export dividends to the proprietors at an increasing rate without further capital inflow 
Can he say what would have been the savings lo Australia in (a) foreign reserves and (b) public revenue, assuming an .unchanged rate of safes, if Australia had retained  its  maximum percentage of equity in the Company. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been, drawn to work by Jay Forrester at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on world dynamics for the Club of Rome. 
If so, does this suggest that most policy decisions have counter-intuitive social effects which" can to some extent be forecast. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the report on legislators' computer requirements commissioned by the United States Congress Committee  on  House Administration (Stanford Research Institute Project No. 873S System Management Plati to Develop' a' Computer-based Information Handling System for the United States House of Representatives). 
If so, will he report to the House on the applicability of these findings to Australian legislatures and policies, and the estimated economies obtainable by use of modem decision-making aids. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the estimated  cost  to the Commonwealth of the aluminium industry in Australia in terms of (a) subsidies and bounties, (b) exploration and 0.her se; vices by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and (c) increased payments to the States and other statutory authorities to cover the net loss to Stales of providing infrastructure for the industry after allowing for increased State  revenues  by way of royalties, railway net profits, etc. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank Group the right to take equity in private companies which it finances worldwide. 
Has it shown a special interest in primary industry. 
Are any Australians members of the Corporation; if so, who are they. 
Can he say what enterprises in Australia are financed by the Corporation. 
Is it the intention of the Government to give the Australian Industries Development Corporation power to acquire full details of foreign investment in Australia and to compete with the International Finance Corporation on equal terms. 
Will he take steps to ensure that (a) priority on freehold or long leasehold of Australian land is reserved for Australians, if necessary, by the use of public funds and (b) there is overseas no prior or greater promotion of sales of Australian land or other resources than in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General take steps to ensure that section 103 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1969 conforms with section 116 of the Commonwealth Constitution. 
asked the Minis:er for National Development, upon notice: 
Will he take steps io introduce legislation to require the transfer to the Australian public from private petroleum producers equity in those petroleum companies equal to the amount of search subsidy given them within a reasonable period after the net investment of those companies in Australia has become profitable; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon no'.ice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the resolutions of the 1971 meeting of the International Society for Social Responsibility in Science as reported in the 'New Scientist' of 16th September 1971. 
If so, will Australia support the Society's resolutions to be submitted to the 1972 United Nations Conference on Human Environment; if not, why noi. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
When was the Australian Universities Commission requested to re-examine the question of payments to honorary clinical teachers for their teaching services (Hansard, 25th November 1971, page 3768). 
When did he receive or docs he expect to receive the Commission's report. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What precautions are taken by Queensland Alumina Limited and other refineries in Australia to prevent run-off to ground water or the sea of deliquescent alkaline mud effluent. 
Has seepage from pondage systems or other effluent from these refineries contributed to the alleged deterioration of marine life in the region of Gladstone Harbour. 
Has Queensland Alumina Limited sought approval to deposit process effluent in a creek or inlet which will thereby be destroyed as a fishing area or marine breeding area. 
Will the Government take steps to preserve and restore affected marine life; if so, what steps are proposed. 
What are the penalties for (a) pollution or interference with marine life on an industrial scale, (b) using explosives to kill fish and (c) taking undersized fish by line or net. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What precautions will be taken in the Fairbairn Dam Irrigation area to prevent build-up of phosphate and other fertilisers and pesticides in run-off into the Nogoa subdivision of the Fitzroy basin. 
Could the problem bc avoided by pumping run-off into exposed and -'or anerobic ponds, or onto high ground to allow trickle filtering in subsoil. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What is the nature of flocculant (coagulant aid) chemicals used to clarify water for recycling to coal washeries in the Dawson, Mackenzie and Isaacs subdivisions of the Fitzroy basin. 
What precautions are taken to prevent the dispersion of these and other residues possibly harmful to soil, or water organisms, especially in run-off to the river system. 
asked the Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  Upon  notice: 
Has bis attention been drawn to the article called The Violence of the Continued Claim to National Sovereignty Today by the Reader in Criminology, University of Melbourne, in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Criminology for September 1971. 
If so, will he -fake steps to include the points raised in the article in publicity designed to stimulate public discussion of United Nations Charter Reform proposals for the 1972 General Assembly debates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what basis are Public Service district allowance grades calculated. 
What factors are considered in the grades for' employees in (a) Rockhampton, (b) Gladstone, (c) Biloela and (d) Mount Isa. 
What are the respective grades for these districts. 
How have those factors changed since those grades were first arrived at. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry heard proposals from the Opposition that when the Tariff Board is inquiring into an industry to ascertain whether tariff protection should be provided, it also should inquire into prices and price policy and, in its recommendations to the Parliament, should also include recommendations about prices and price policy in the protected industry? Does he agree with the Opposition's proposals, or does he still believe that tariff protection should be given without regard to prices and price policy? 
asked the Minister for 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will he discuss with the Minister for the Interior the urgent necessity of changing liquor laws which have destroyed the social and family security of the Yirrkala people (Question No. 4549, Hansard, 1st December 1971), bearing in mind that not only must the facts be tested against the law, hut also the law must be tested against the facts. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the priorities adopted without dissent by the third conference of the South-East Asia and Oceania Region of the International Planned Parenthood Federation, and the messages of support from the Prime Ministers of Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. 
If so, will he implement the first of those priorities regarding the setting up of  a  coordinating body under the Governor-General or the Prime Minister's Department with representatives from key government and voluntary organisations. 
Will the Government declare support for the other priorities, especially those calling for  a  population control programme as an integral part of the national development programme, for adequate allocation of funds and for support to international agencies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice:  (1.) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article by Lieutenant-Commander Dvorak, formerly Director of Research, University of Washington, in National Business Education Quarterly. December, 1943, pages 51 to 58 and 66. 
If so, (hoes the article show that more than, a dozen most frequently mistyped words are common monosyllables, that the typewriter standard keyboard arrangement violates ergonomic principles and that these have been restored in the Dvorak Keyboard. 
Is it also shown that this keyboard proved superior fo the standard keyboard in international typing contests and records, required some 50 per cent less teacher and pupil time for similar classes to a similar performance level, produced less errors in common short words and relatively less in words without inherent spelling difficulties, produced less subjective fatigue, less fear of errors, belter end-of-day work, better work satisfaction and stall stability. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Works conducted comparative studies of (a) learning or (b) relearning times, (c) accuracy, (d) time-and-motion analysis and (e) fatigue effects of the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard as contrasted with the standard typewriter keyboard. 
If so, (a) on what basis were trainees chosen, (b) what incentives were applied to attain efficiency with each keyboard, (c) were trainees told that the new keyboard may be made permanently available if it proved itself superior, (d) were  Dr Dvorak's  recommended relearning schedules adhered to and (e) what conclusions and recommendations arose from the studies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Works studied a United States Navy Beneficial Suggestion by Thelma Price McCarty, Training Specialist, proposing a retraining programme for Civil Service Typists and typewriting instructors. 
If so, does the proposition establish that, with positive motivation, re-trained typists  attain greater speed and accuracy, decreased fatigue and tension, and greater non-typing improvement with the Dvorak Keyboard than with the Standard Keyboard. 
Does the article also state that the simplified keyboard offers saving in wages, office space and equipment amounting to at least one third of present typing costs. 
asked the  PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When will the alternative national radio programme or segments thereof be broadcast from provincial cities in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to reduce wasteful design, accelerated obsolescence or impaired recycling of raw materials in secondary industries. 
Will he initiate joint Commonwealth-State investigation of these wasteful practices and of related restrictive processing or trading agreements, with special reference to (a) the relation of the price of spare parts to the price of the complete article, (b) the rustproofing of motor vehicles, (c) excessive use of inferior used rubber in motor tyres, and (d) the relative cost of spare parts for private vehicles as compared with costs for commercial vehicles. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that third parly claims must be made and decided before hospital benefits are allowed to those who are injured in traffic accidents and who have insured themselves voluntarily. 
Can he say whether these claims may involve suing the bereaved relatives of someone killed in the same traffic accident which some claimants are reluctant to do for good and humane reasons. 
Will the Government take steps to have hospital fee benefits due from subsidised benefit funds payable (a) under the same conditions as medical fee benefits and (b) wherever third party claims are pending or unpaid whether claimed for or not. 
Will the Government also take steps to integrate third party, compensation and voluntary health insurance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Government accept medical evidence that cigarette smoking has a causal relationship with destructive lung diseases such as emphysema. 
Can the Minister say whether advertising and educational experts have found that short repeated television films, such as those used commonly for the promotion of cigarette sales, have more effect on cigarette consumption than longer films or brochures. 
Can the Minister also say whether voluntary restrictions on television advertising of cigarettes are designed to reduce the tendency of such advertising to initiate, maintain or increase smoking by minors. 
If each answer is in the affirmative, will the Government take steps for the compulsory broadcasting of suitable television material to counteract the effects of tobacco advertising. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did smoking-associated diseases, other than lung cancer, kill some 33,000 Australians in the 1960's. 
Can the Minister say whether this figure is greater than the road toll in the same period. 
Can the Minister also say whether the figure is greater than Australia's total losses in World War 11 and the Korean, Malaysian and Vietnam confrontations. 
What percentage of the Department of Health's expenditure is devoted to eradicating this wastage of life and the accompanying morbidity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Report on Effects of 2,4,5-T and Related Herbicides on Man and the Environment from the Sub-committee on Energy, Natural resources and the Environment of the Committee on Commerce of the United States Senate, dated 17th and 18th June 1970, which recommends the immediate and publicised removal of this herbicide from the channels of commerce such as its use around the home, on bodies of water and on food. 
If so, will the Minister take immediate steps to (a) carry out this recommendation as far as it lies within the competence of the Commonwealth Government and (b) raise the question with the States with a view to parallel action by them. 
Will the Minister also place similar restrictions on the milder but closely related substance 2,4-D. 
Will the Minister seek prompt expert advice, in the light of the report, on what restrictions should be placed on the industrial use of these herbicides. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister objected to the advertising of a product as a stimulant or as giving a quick lift that lasts on the grounds of good health practice and avoidance of drug dependence and abuse of drugs when not properly prescribed. 
Is caffeine a stimulant which gives a quick lift without rebound withdrawal effects. (3)Is Caffeine the principal pharmacologically active ingredient of tea, coffee and the product in question and the sole stimulant in A.P.C. powders. 
What is the Government's attitude to advertising of (a) tea, coffee and A.P.C. powders as giving a lift or as stimulants because of the risk of dependence on these artificial stimulants if they are not properly prescribed by a doctor and (b) tobacco or alcohol products as enjoyable, international, sophisticated, a man's drink, or in association with fine scenery, luxury, pleasant company or robust models engaged in enjoying those products. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the 38th  Sir Richard  Stawell Oration in the Medical Journal of Australia of  10  July  1971,  pages  65-71. 
If so, does the Minister recognise the appeal in the concluding paragraphs as directed at the Government to avert a crisis of waning morale, adequacy and efficacy in Australia's health services, research and teaching as compared with those of Britain and the United States. 
Will the Government act urgently to assess and where necessary correct these crises. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has Australia experienced a consistent rise in per capita cigarette consumption amounting to 42 per cent between 1956 and 1969 while the 
United States of America, Great Britain and Scandinavia experienced a fall in the same period. 
Can the Minister say whether cigarette advertising is less controlled in Australia than in those countries. 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to reports of Australian Gallup Polls in 1969 that most non-smokers and most heavy smokers favour advertising restriction and printed warnings on cigarette packets. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report dated September 1971 of the Committee of Inquiry into Nursing commissioned by the Royal Australian Nursing Federation, Queensland Branch. 
If so, can the Minister say whether the inquiry was prompted by the failure of the Branch to obtain relief from discussions with Health Ministers concerning problems of nursing in such matters as staffing, standards, experience and education. 
Did the Committee represent the best obtainable expertise in the fields of medicine, nursing and health administration. 
Did it obtain excellent detailed responses from a high percentage of - student nurses approached, and outline the history of nurse training. 
Did it find that more investigation is needed to define nursing roles, to explore the expansion of training into Colleges of Advanced Education and to upgrade living and working conditions of nurses by comparison with more fortunate professional trainees. 
Did it recommend a permanent central planning body to consider hospital staff establishments, future education trends and regional administration. 
Will the Minister ensure that these recommendations are considered in conjunction with the States and the relevant authorities in Commonwealth Territories. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to resolutions of the 1971 Trondheim meeting of the International Society for Social Responsibility in Science. 
If so, will he take steps to bring about the changes in education and research advocated therein; if not why not. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that small parcels air freighted from Rockhampton to Heathrow are charged for at a minimum of over $12. 
Can the same parcels be sent airmail to  a  private home in Great Britain for $1.80 per 8 oz. 
If so, will he arrange publicity to promote greater use of airmail parcel delivery stressing the competitive rates of the Post Office. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he make available to members the findings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council on the question of rust and corrosion in motor vehicles. 
I  wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Australian Union of Students newsletter for November 1971 relating to the Open University. 
If so, win he ask the Australian Universities Commission to investigate the potential of this technique for reducing the cost of university education in Australia. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition  of  the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Government completed consideration of the report received before 5th January 1972 from the Australian Universities Commission concerning proposed payments to honorary clinical teachers. 
Will the Government act upon the report before teachers are engaged for the next clinical teaching term. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what is the estimated percentage of (a) hospital beds occupied, (b) outpatient attendances and (c) costs of treatment in Australian hospitals or representative hospitals in Australia attributable to (i) alcoholism, (ii) peptic ulcer, (iii) chronic bronchitis, (iv) road injuries, (v) other injuries and (vi) hypertensive disorders. 
I. present the fol lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Research Division of the United States' Bureau of Mines has a prototype plant to reduce household refuse to saleable metals, heating oil, gas, glasses, fertiliser and bricks at a profit 
If so, will he take steps to see that an Australian authority is set up to advise other public authorities of this economic and ecological advance. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to letters to the 'Straits Times' of 21st August 1971, complaining of degrading behaviour by Australian basketball team members in the Pesta Sukan which was observed by the letter writers. 
If so, will he approach the Australian basketball authorities with a view to having them inquire into the alleged behaviour and the 'Straits Times' being informed of their conclusions and concern. 
Will he take diplomatic action to convey Australia's regrets if any bad behaviour is brought to his attention as the result of the inquiry. 
-I present the following petition. 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article by W. R Crocker in the 'I.P.A. Review' for October-December 1971. 
If so, will the Government take steps to establish a Royal Commission as called for by this distinguished author, offering him chairmanship of that Commission, to investigate all aspects of Australia's foreignrelations. 
I second the amendment. 
Then 1 move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at  11.7 p.m. 
In supporting the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I want to draw attention to some matters which I raised very hurriedly on 12th November 1971 at 12.38 a.m. At that hour of the morning, of course, one feels very strongly about this matter of sitting after midnight. I drew attention then to an article in 'Aerospace Medicine' for May 1970 where they summarised the medical experience of the Apollo flights Nos. 7 to 11. The important point emphasised in that article was as follows: 
The Apollo astronauts have faced the same sleep difficulties as their predecessors. Unfortunately medical knowledge and expertise can provide little assistance in resolving this problem area, for Apollo mission plans must be highly inflexible and constraining. The astronaut must then be integrated into the fixed mission plan as best he can. 
I pointed out. however, that because of the considerable disruption in the flight schedules caused by the disturbances to sleep and to the pattern of rest on board these spaceships, these men in their later flights had definite rest periods laid down when they all slept at the one time. Different measures were taken to stop the noise of pumps, gases and so on which disturbed their sleep. This so improved the performance of these people that they were able to get ahead of schedule instead of behind. They were able to spend more time on the moon's surface. This is the most complete and intensive study of the effects of sleep deprivation on record in medical literature. It does not involve only such things as physical skills; it involves also thinking processes. It involves co-ordination. It involves, in other words, efficency of brain work. This has been established by close studies of every bodily and mental function of these men before and after their flights. 
Until some such study is done of those who do the sort of work that is done in this House and in other parliamentary chambers, we must assume that the same findings apply to those who do the work that is done here. The work is demanding as to the hours, the interruptions that occur and the complexities we are faced with in considering the matters that come to our attention, whether we are taking part in debate on legislation, trying to unravel a problem for a constituent, attending to party matters or going to speak to some organisation in our electorates or visiting an organisation in somebody else's electorate, even in another State, to get some information. Whatever aspects we look at, if a man is conscientious - most people are if they are willing to make the effort to get into this place and sit for outrageous hours - he has a continual pressure on him to absorb information, correlate it and act on it efficiently. There is intense competition for recognition of achievement in these fields. 
The job cannot be done efficiently the way we are doing it. We are losing time by sitting longer hours. What we should be doing is sitting more days and shorter hours. The first time I spoke in this House was when I asked a question of the right honourable gentleman who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I asked him then, 4 years ago, whether he had seen reports by a psychiatrist that it was inadvisable for senior executives and people charged with the responsibility of the administration of the country to be making important decisions during and shortly after long air flights. To some extent this involves the sort of time disturbance that occurs with the astronauts, because some of these long flights involve travelling from one time zone to another. We have people in this Parliament who make such flights. They have a half-hour change in time travelling to Canberra from South Australia and a time change of 2 hours if travelling from Western Australia. Some of our Ministers are subject to this time change. If they do not live in South Australia or Western Australia they must travel to those States at some time. There are also those who travel around the world and come back here, and, of course, are subjected to this disturbance. 
But every one of us is subjected to this sort of disturbance by the hours we are sitting. We are all disorientated, confused, muddled and liable to make mistakes. As I said in my previous speech on this subject, the substance of which I am now quoting, we are in effect intoxicated. Fatigue produces in the brain cells and in every other part of the body toxic substances which impair efficiency. If there is any sense in the proposition that we should not have people taking drugs such as marihuana or that we should have breathalysers to stop people from driving in traffic and controlling machinery when they are intoxicated, we ought to be looking very hard at the responsible decisions that are being made here while we are intoxicated. 
I sincerely hope that the House will support the amendment of the honourable member for Wills that the House adjourn at 10 p.m. An adjournment debate of up to an hour will then follow, and with a bit of luck we will be in bed by midnight, even if we have a bit of work to do in our offices before we leave this building after the sitting. Is it too much to expect that people get to bed before midnight, or do we want to be speaking, as I was on the last occasion I spoke on this subject, at 12.38 a.m., with the end of the sitting not in sight. Which is sane? Which is sensible? Which is the proper way to run the country, the Parliament or any other business? Do we find the procedure that we follow in any other enterprise in this country? If not, why not? They do not follow our example because they are a little bit saner than we are. I ask everybody - this is a free vote and I am not appealing on party lines - to cross to the same side as the honourable member for Wills in this matter. Those who do not will stand condemned for their disregard of their own health, their own length of life, their own family and dependants and the welfare of this country. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is be able to say what incentives Governments in Australia provide to reverse the trend towards adoption of planned accelerated obsolescence in consumer durables. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What funds are held in reserve by the Commonwealth for a national superannuation fund. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he take steps to require largs companies to publicly disclose their accounts, so that Australian electors can judge the commitment of Australia to service overseas capital. 
Will he request members of the Cabinet to disclose the shareholdings of themselves and their families in big firms which have enjoyed subsidies, tariff protection or other Government support. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether he has condemned an agreement on stevedoring as contrary to the national interest without seeing the agreement. Has he claimed that it will increase overtime payments without knowing the increase, if any, in overtime to be worked? Has he deduced that political strikes have been legitimised by the agreement whereas in fact they were lawful without the agreement? Has he implied that only a Full Bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission can decide the full economic implications of a reduction in the hours of work in a key industry, and, if so, what evidence is there that a Full Bench has ever done so to the satisfaction of the political parties now in government? Has he told the National Industrial Council that he opposes wage increases which would add to cost inflation without qualifying his remarks by reference to increasing productivity in the relevant industry? Has he suggested that the new agreement will place the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in a financially untenable position without having had consultations with the Authority and before the matter has been considered by the Stevedoring Industry Council? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a series of television commercials featuring 'Great Moments in Sport' which first appeared' in Melbourne in late 1971. 
If so, can he say whether Herb Elliott, who campaigns against smoking, appeared in this series without his consent 
Will he take steps to amend the law in conformity with laws in some other countries where such defamation is forbidden. 
Will he also appeal to Rothmans to apologise publicly for misleading advertising which is contrary to the spirit of the voluntary code on cigarette advertising and personally offensive to  Mr Elliott 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that (a) 2,000 known' genetic diseases affect some 3 persons and are carried by perhaps another 3 in each 20 of the population, (b) this genetic burden is growing due to modern treatments which, for example, save until their reproductive years some sufferers from cystic fibrosis which affects 1 in 1,000 and is carried by approximately 1 in 20 of the population, (c)  a  quarter of hospital and institutional beds are now occupied by the genetically handicapped, (d) genetic disorders such as mongolism and betathalassemia are diagnosable but rarely diagnosed before birth, (e) the genetic code was discovered under financial cover of non-genetic investigations and (f) the United States of America in 1970 made  a  $10m grant to a National Genetics Task Force to follow up this research. 
If so, will be launch  a  eugenic foundation In conjunction with the John Curtin Institute - the Family Planning Association. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he recommend to the Australian Transport Advisory Council the enactment of laws which require (a) safety factors in road fatalities to be investigated as thoroughly as in aircraft fatalities and (b) penalties on unsafe vehicle manufacturers comparable with those on unsafe drug manufacturers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is Colonel McArthur, recently appointed Chairman of the Australian Meat Board, the former Chairman of the Australian Egg Board who presided over the elimination of most small egg producers. 
If so, what steps has the Government taken to ensure that similar methods will not be used to eliminate small meat producers when supply exceeds demand.' 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in "The Australian' of 18th January 1972 that the Royal Lao and American military, in Laos are resigned to the ability of North Vietnam to take over from the corrupt, divisive' nepotism and immorality of the feudal Lao regime. - 
Has a request for military help from Australia been made by Lao authorities. 
What is the extent of Australian (a) military and (b) civil aid to Laos. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the 'Australian' of 18th January 1972 that the Japanese decoded official Australian messages indicating that a Japanese invasion was expected after the first bombing raid on Darwin, that the raids were in fact aimed at support logistics, that invasion was never considered by the over-extended Japanese military and that air superiority and more efficient anti-aircraft action finally turned the situation against Japan in 1943. 
If so,will the Government review the situation and release documents bearing on this period to show how difficult it would be for  a  major naval and military force to attempt invasion of a well equipped, trained and informed Australian nation. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the New South Wales Government, the Rural Bank, the Australian Gas Light Company, the Sydney and Melbourne City Councils, the Australian Mutual Provident Society and Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited make up pay differences for employees who are conscripted for national service. 
If so, is this a subsidy by private, semipublic, State and local government sources to an underpaid compulsory sector of Federal employment while superannuation for most employees in Australia is beyond Government resources. 
If these additional payments were made by the Commonwealth to all Service personnel, would this induce sufficient recruitment to maintain the numbers in the Armed Forces and remove the need for conscription. 
On 5th February this year there was a sub-editorial in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' referring to the great number and length of questions placed on notice in this House relating to cigarette advertising. I think that is the sort of pressure that has moved this Government to act. I was mentioned perhaps more often than others in the list of questions given in that journal, but I am given 5 minutes in which to speak on this subject, although the Government says that it is interested in educating people about the hazards of cigarette smoking. In these 5 minutes I can refer only briefly to a few matters that have been raised in the debate. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  could not refrain from attacking the Australian Labor Party. He said that Labor's policy of banning all advertising of cigarettes and tobacco was a sham because South Australia had not imposed such a ban. I want to refer to an answer that was given to me on 20th August last year by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I had asked him whether the Victorian Health Minister had given an excuse in December 1970 for not implementing the law in that State, which was 12 months old, to provide warnings on cigarette packets. The reason he gave was that the implementation of such a law would break down the Federal principle. I asked the Minister whether he would consult with the States to clarify the relative roles in this matter. The Minister said: 
The Commonwealth's view is that when legislation . . . has been enacted in all States, the Commonwealth will enact similar legislation . . . 
As we have heard during the debate tonight, it has taken 7 to 10 years, during which time very convincing medical and technical evidence has been given about the hazards of cigarette smoking, to persuade the Commonwealth Government now at this late hour, just before an election, to change its attitude and to say: 'We will not wait for the States'. The honourable member for Isaacs had the temerity to accuse the South Australian Government, which represents a very small percentage of the people in Australia, of not doing something in this direction. 
I agree with honourable members on both sides of the chamber who have said that a policy of directing education about cigarette smoking towards the young is important if we are going to reduce the consumption of cigarettes. The PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in his second reading speech and in Press statements has referred to what the Government has done about this question. He said in his second reading speech that the announcement about the warning - to use his own words - 'is to avoid any element of ridicule, irony or humour'. In other words, it will be a dead pan announcement. It will have no emo tional impact, although it is supposed to convince people not to smoke cigarettes. Is not the whole idea of advertising to stimulate an emotional response? If we want to do anything about this matter, we should use advertising techniques which ridicule smoking. We should use irony against smoking. We should use the commercial type advertisements which are made by the anti-smoking people, at their own expense; they do not receive any government subsidy. Although we subsidise tobacco growers - even some in my own electorate - we cannot subsidise the people who are doing what the Government says it wants to do, that is, to spend a bit of money on educating people not to smoke. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  said that we have to use a bit of glamour in order to appeal to the young people if we want to convince them on any issue. This is exactly what the cigarette advertisers are doing. They are painting a glamorous picture of world travel and are using a sophisticated sporting setting. Yet the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  had the hide to say that we should appeal to the broadcasters; that they have shown themselves to be responsible and they will co-operate. 
Yes, they have co-operated. They have complied to the letter of the law of the voluntary restrictions which say that they must not use models under 25 years of age and so on. They have followed these voluntary restrictions to the letter of the law. Nevertheless we are shown a parachutist coming down out of the sky, hopping into a nice, fast sports car with a glamorous girl - probably a blonde - and then lighting a cigarette. 
The Minister asks: 'What is wrong with that?' And he smiles. There is a great emotional response from honourable members opposite, but it is not because of my oratory; it is because glamour is appealing to them. It tickles their fancy and gets under their skin. The second rate version of the advertisement that I am giving to them verbally has the same reaction on them as they get when they see the advertisements on television and decide to light up a smoke. They picture themselves in their minds floating off with a blonde through the great blue yonder. 
The Government has said that it will spend $500,000 a year for the next 3 years on educating people about the hazards of cigarette smoking. That sounds a lot of money, but what are the tobacco companies spending? Two or three years ago they were spending $12.5m a year on advertising. The Government will spend on advertising one-twentyfifth of what the tobacco companies were spending on advertising, and 1 am including all advertising - not just advertising on television and radio. The Government thinks that it will make an impact by the expenditure of $500,000 a year. The Government received $240m from excise on cigarettes two or three years ago, but it proposes to spend $500,000 a year on educating people about the hazards of cigarette smoking. It is prepared to spend one-four hundred and eightieth part of the revenue which it receives from excise on cigarettes to educate people about the damage the Government is causing by supporting the tobacco industry. 
 I am sorely tempted to go further but I have already exceeded 5 minutes. I submit to the discipline of the House for the sake of other honourable members on my side of the chamber who wish to speak in this debate. 
The amendment which has been moved refers to the time to be taken to announce a statement that cigarette smoking is a hazard. The original wording has been watered down to the word 'hazard', which we have accepted with protest, and this has been one of the excuses that have been used for reducing the time allotted to the warning. Apart from the aspect raised by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  that this is getting close to the ridiculous position of a subliminal advertisement, there is another feature that should be emphasised. The whole object of this statement is to convey a warning which will be educational. In his speech, the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  said that the main aim of the Government is the education of the young people of this country. Surely that is the whole object of this  3  second or  5  second warning. 
However, the Government has allowed much more than  3  seconds or  5  seconds when other goods are advertised. I shall mention them briefly. For instance, in the matter of the use of motor cars, we do not object to the compulsory use of seat belts, although this interferes with the freedom of the individual. Yet the PostmasterGeneral said that it was not the role of the Government to impose prohibitions on people's freedom of choice. But we have come around. We have been conditioned and educated to accepting that we should impose on the freedom of individuals and decide for them matters concerning their own wellbeing. We recognise that it is not just their own wellbeing but in fact everyone's wellbeing that is related to this warning. We must get across to the people that it is not just a danger to themselves but it is a danger to others who depend upon them for a livelihood and will be left wanting should they die from one of these illnesses. Three seconds is an absurd space of time in which to get this sort of education across to the people. Another example is the advertising of other drugs. 
On 1.7th November last the Minister for Health spoke about another drug not nearly as important as the one we are discussing tonight, but on that occasion the Government went a lot further than requiring a 3-second warning. The Government actually prevented a company using a specific word which was in fact true. I refer to a statement released on 17th November last regarding the advertising of a stimulant drug in which the Minister said he deplored the use of the term 'stimulant' applied to a drug known as Stimovite Plus. When I asked the Minister whether there was a stimulant drug in the product be said yes. When 1 asked whether it was caffein, he again said yes. Of course, caffein is a stimulant present in coffee and tea and the Minister said he deplored it because it might be habit forming. I asked the Minister would he take similar action against the advertising of coffee and tea. That is the sort of nonsense we must put up with. When there is no lobby concerned as in the case of Stimovite Plus all sorts of clamps can be put on it, a relatively harmless drug that children eat and drink and buy freely. Yet on this occasion the Government is prepared to water the restriction down from 5 seconds to 3 seconds. The term stimulant' applied to caffein is medically accurate. The term 'health hazard' is a watered down term and that is why we are being asked to reduce the time of the warning. 
I should like to refer to various other things that are allowed to be advertised such as armaments and censorship, a subject mentioned earlier in the night. Censorship is something in which the Government is very active. In this House there is a lobbyist for the tobacco companies. No doubt he will receive his payoff for this achievement. Some of the money the companies save on the cutting down of the warning by a couple of seconds in radio and television advertising will no doubt boost his income. Another drug which the Government has banned, not only in advertising but also in distribution, possession and use, is marihuana. We have heard many arguments why every kind of restriction should be put on this drug, and 1 agree that it should be restricted. However, those same arguments apply equally - in fact more strongly - to tobacco. Yet the restriction previously proposed is to be watered down. Every amendment brought forward by the Government is watered down. The Government is being pressured. Talking to the Government are profits and not people. 
 I want to make a few general remarks on the philosophy behind this Bill. The object and motivation of the Bill have been well canvassed during the earlier stages of the Bill. Tobacco, particularly in the form of cigarettes, is a killer drug. It is a product that has no redeeming features. There was a time when certain doctors recommended it for asthma, which is now found to be greatly aggravated by it. It was recommended also as a tranquilliser. I think most people who have taken up smoking and given it up again for this reason are pretty well convinced that it has the opposite effect in the long run. It is a temporary measure to which a person becomes addicted and cannot get by without it without suffering worse trouble. 1 stress that the Bill is a weak and puny attack on the problem. Even when the sentiments in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  are conceded - mainly that education is the first priority - we must realise that that is a puny effort, too, because $500,000 is to be spent annually for 3 years by a government which is raking in $240m a year from the tobacco industry. That vas the 1969 figure and it is probably well over that now. Above all it is a puny attack &lt;n the whole general health problem of the use of socially accepted drugs in this community. I draw attention particularly to alcohol which kills more people than tobacco, which ruins more homes than tobacco, which fills more accident beds in our hospitals than all the chest beds that are filled by tobacco and which fills more mental hospital beds than marihuana, tobacco and all the other drugs combined. 
A quarter of a century ago we were taught by our lecturer in public health - I have no doubt it is still being taught by experts in this field - that tobacco is a third rate food, a second rate drug and a first rate poison. While I am not an advocate of banning people from taking third rate food .1 am an advocate for banning the advertising of it. While 1 am not one- 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What was the estimated average payment per family by his Department for (a) the provision of drugs and dressings, (b) local medical officer and private medical services and (c) hospital and ancillary, including prosethetic, services, to (i) repatriation patients and (ii) other patients in the latest year for which figures are available. 
What percentage do these payments represent of estimated costs to these families for the goods and services in each case. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What was the (a) amount and percentage of total annual expenditure and (b) percentage of the Gross National Product spent on interest by (i) the Commonwealth, (ii) the States, (iii) local authorities and (iv) semi-governmental organisations in the last year for which figures are available, and in the years 10, 20 and 30 years previously. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has he appointed  Mr N.  V. Tennison, a parliamentary candidate for the Australian Democratic Labor Party in Queensland, as a public relations officer for his Department in Victoria. 
If so, will  Mr Tennison  join his personal staff. 
Did senior officers of his Department publicly offer an appointment as telephone exchange operator to a former Australian Labor Party candidate for election to the Queensland Parliament who had switchboard experience in the Armed Forces, was a competent tradesman, and who had a wife and daughter well qualified to assist, after no response had been obtained to repeated advertising of the position. 
Were these 3 persons advised of the approximate salary and given a firm starting date and did they take the required oaths of secrecy. 
Was this offer withdrawn after representations through the Country Party State Member for the area and the appointment offered to a housewife who had earlier declined the appointment and who has a pre-school child and a husband in full-time employment elsewhere and whose only qualification was that she has relieved the former exchange keeper. 
What other appointments have been challenged on the ground of possible political bias during his administration, and what were the circumstances. 
Will he arrange a public investigation to determine to what extent the Australian Post Office should be conducted by a statutory authority with less political influence used in deciding appointments. 
I do not think the point has not been made clear enough by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  The fact that somebody brings to this place an envelope, a note or any sort of missive or message with a member's name on it should be sufficient reason for the member to receive it. I think all other arguments are irrelevant. The point at issue has nothing to do with censorship or whether a man spends money to put a stamp on an envelope address to a member. We have attendants in Parliament House who are at the service of members to see that the House works smoothly and that members can communicate not only with each other but with any person who makes the effort to bring himself or his message to this place. I think it is enough of a burden on people in a land of free speech that they have to pay for the paper and the ink and have to arrange for delivery of the material into this House, without the added burden of having to pay postage. I am not arguing for or against the case of the man who had to pay postage for a particular matter that he wanted to send. I am simply raising a matter of principle, that the transfer of information to members of Parliament should be free, so far as that is possible. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the (a) amount and percentage of previous value at stock exchange rates and (b) percentage of the Gross National Product of capital gains by (i) trading banks in Australia owned overseas, (ii) other Australian private trading banks, (iii) the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and State Banks, (iv) hire purchase and other fringe banking' organisations, (v) private insurance companies in Australia and (vi) Government insurance companies in Australia in the last year for which figures are available, and in the years 10, 20 and 30 years previously. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount and percentage of capital and reserves of revenue, net of subsidies, from (a) the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and State banks and (b) government insurance offices in the last year for which figures are available, and in the years, 10, 20 and 30 years previously. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the (a) cumulative and (b) last available year's statistics of physical, psychological and educational unfitness for military service in (0 volunteers for each of the three military services and (ii) national servicemen (A) on induction and (B) as grounds for discharge in each case since the inception of the National Service Act. 
What are the principal differences in the criteria of unfitness among these categories of examinees. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Would a 2 per cent levy on cigarettes produce revenue about equal to the expenditure required to provide (a) equal time on television to combat cigarette advertising or (b) finance for television stations to compensate for loss of cigarette advertising. 
If so, will he investigate the possibility of such a levy and expenditure and publish his conclusions. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Was telephone service promised to Brigalow developers between Comet and Rolleston for not later than March 1971 at a meeting at Memooloo in April 1970. 
If so, was the promise withdrawn in 1971 due to lack of finance. 
Is lack of finance the true reason for delays so often attributed to lack of various essential supplies which take many months to obtain. 
Is lack of finance justifiable for lucrative development works when the telephone service is working at a profit. 
Would this position be improved by conducting most of the Department's undertakings as a normal business enterprise; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the submission of the Department of Health to National Health Service pharmacists rely on experience in Australia and the United Kingdom as evidence to support its method of costing National Health Service dispensing. 
If so, is the United Kingdom's National Health Service regarded as the best external reference model available for this purpose. 
Will the Minister make a reasoned reply to the Guild Chemists' case for (a) regression analysis in place of random activity sampling and (b) an interim updating as for medical fee benefits as a basis for assessing National Health Service dispensing fees. 
If not, will the Minister explain his alternative methods for reconciling pharmacists with Government policy and creating job satisfaction and efficiency in the service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare recommend overall planning of rehabilitation for the handicapped to increase efficiency. &gt;  &gt; 
If so, will the Minister take steps to set up a semi-governmental authority for this purpose, including representatives of Departments concerned with education, social welfare and vocational matters, and voluntary organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a circular, dated 3rd April 1972, from the blind treasurer of the Radar for the Blind Club which shows that foreign interests are negotiating to take over this non-profit Club. 
If so, will he negotiate urgently, in concert with rehabilitation officers of the Department of Social Services and electronics experts attached to the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories and other public instrumentalities, a semi-governmental authority in partnership with the Club to ensure the stability and Australian control and development of this Australian lead in technology and rehabilitation. 
asked the Prime Minis  ter, upon notice: 
Did he state in March 1972 that Australia would like Taiwan to be independent and that his Government still accepts the claim of both Chinese regimes that Taiwan should be part of one China. 
If so, will he provide an early opportunity for the Parliament to debate these conflicting attitudes. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Sunday Australian of 6th February 1972 that (a)Gamlen and Correxit, believed to have been donated by oil companies to the Queensland Government for oil slick dispersal, are toxic to coral at one part per SO million in sea water and to other marine life at one part per 10 million. 
Tankers using Torres Strait to save weeks of sailing time miss obstructions by inches. 
If so, will he raise these matters with the Queensland Government and investigate the effectiveness of vermiculite as an oil slick absorbent. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
What entitles a person to vote in elections for the Gazelle Peninsula Local Government Council, as regards age, nationality, domicile and other restrictions. 
What steps are taken to persuade eligible persons to vote at these elections. 
What qualifies a person as a taxpayer to the Council as regards age, nationality, domicile, occupation, property, income, dependents, education or other criteria. 
How many persons are in Kerevat Corrective Institution for failure to pay taxes, and what is 
their average length  of  stay, (b) the average amount of tax owing and (c) their commonest occupation. 
What opportunities have those in custody to earn the means to pay the tax, and how long will this take them. 
What is the daily cost of maintaining a person in custody in the Institution? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of the Government's financial assistance as (a) grants and (b) loans for research and development are at the disposal of private enterprises with discretion reserved for such enterprises as to the proportion of the assistance they use in research aimed at stimulating demand, increasing consumption and accelerating absolescence. 
Will he consult with appropriate State authorities regarding the possibility of providing incentives to industry to reduce artifically stimulated consumption, to retard obsolescence and to encourage waste re-cycling. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statistics on alcoholism in New Zealand, published on page 14 of the A.M.A. Gazette of 2nd December 1971, comparing the economic and social burdens of alcoholism with those of typhoid in an earlier age. 
If so, will he provide similar statistics for Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the estimated average payment per family by the Commonwealth for (a) drugs for (i) social service pensioners, (ii) persons paying a reduced fee for National Health Service prescriptions and (iii) other persons on National Health Service prescriptions, (b) hospital costs including dispensing for (i) standard bed patients and (ii) sub-intermediate, intermediate and private bed patients and (c) private medical fees for (i) social service pensioners and (ii) others in the latest year for which figures are available. 
What percentage do these payments represent of estimated costs for these goods and services to (a) social service pensioners and their families and (b) the other relevant categories of families in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount and percentage of outstanding loans received in interest payment, net of interest paid out, by (a) foreign lenders excluding banks operating in Australia, (b) trading banks in Australia owned overseas, (c) other Australian private trading banks, (d) the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and State banks (e) hire purchase and other fringe banking organisations, (f) private insurance companies in Australia and (g) government insurance companies in Australia in the last year for which figures are available, and in the years 10, 20 and 30 years previously. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are greater percentages of observance of the most common fee for (a) general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits and (b) other medical services to be found in South Australia and Western Australia as compared with other States. 
Will this difference exaggerate the differences among the States in common fee schedules for medical benefit subsidy purposes or will these schedules in the various States approximate each other leading to even greater disparities in observance of common fees among the States. 
Will the periodic review of the schedules be influenced by consumer prices and State price fixing legislation which may have also influenced the extent of common fee observance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
As the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations claims that surveys show adult and peer behaviour is the main influence inducing children to smoke, will the Minister arrange for his Department to undertake or sponsor a similar survey to fmd what influences adults and children to stop smoking, or collate and publish existing findings on this subject. 
As the Federation further claims that cigarette consumption rose after a ban on television advertising when advertising expenditure in other media rose, will the Minister publish especially findings which refer to other advertising media. 
Will the Minister also publish replies to the 15 questions, quoted in the Federation's last annual report, from the United States House of Representatives. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the House debate the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in respect of mentally and physically handicapped persons. 
What action has the Minister taken to follow those recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether one-party regimes, which suppress trade union activity and criticism of their government, notably South Africa, Spain and Portugal, have sought favoured nation status with the European Economic Community in the event of the United Kingdom, which gives them tariff concessions, entering the Community. 
Can he also say whether the European Parliament in document 1962/122 paragraph 25 specifies that member countries should have a democratic policy or a form of government based on political freedom. 
Has he taken steps to obtain for Australia close ties with the EEC not inferior to those sought for South Africa, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Turkey and East Germany which lack the qualifications Australia has for EEC membership. 
Has Australia accepted a phasing out of trade preferences in the United Kingdom at a faster rate than has been accepted by one or more of the one-party nations referred to. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to allegations circulating in Queensland, over the signature of A. Bawden, to the effect that certain Queensland Ministers of Stale were involved in permitting or assisting, in spite of promising to prevent, the destruction of 700 co-operatives in Queensland which were selling at discounts not approved by oil, steel and fertilizer manufacturers. 
If so, what steps has the Attorney-General taken to investigate the allegations under legislation concerning restrictive trade practices. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Would the censorship of distasteful current affairs programmes proposed by some of his Ministers be likely to exclude confrontations or even comparative interviews involving himself and the Leader of the Opposition? Does he consider that the widest possible exposure of policies and the fullest opportunity for electors to assess the personal presentation of their prospective representatives and Ministers is desirable in a democracy which depends on a popular vote and freedom of the Press and other media? Finally, will he propose to the Australian Broadcasting Commission the regular appearance of alternative prospective representatives and Ministers which will tend to reduce the temptation for him and others to violate the law which limits a candidate's expenditure on his political campaign? 
 It has been said many times in this debate by honourable members on this side of the House, and it bears brief repetition, that the Budget is a misrepresentation. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  described the Budget in these terms: Taxes down, pensions up.' I want to cite some figures which give the lie to that description. It is estimated that income tax revenue will rise by $439. A single pensioner is to receive an extra $91 a year, not in buying power but in inflated money. A single man receiving $15,000 a year will have his tax reduced by $420 a year. That is called a modest rise of 7.1 per cent. A family man with a wife and 2 children, receiving $5,000 a year, is to receive a tax reduction of $141 a year, yet he is alleged to be getting a princely benefit of a 17.6 per cent reduction -  2i  times the percentage but only one-third of the amount. The take home pay of the man on $5,000 a year will rise by a much smaller percentage than the take home pay after tax of the man receiving $15,000 a year. The rebates will largely disappear for the low income earner because of the inflationary effect on money, which will increase the income tax receipts of the Government. It is complete misrepresentation to say that taxes are down and pensions are up when the percentage of the average weekly earnings represented by the pension rise will be eroded within 12 months. 
One sector of this Government's Budgets in which payments have been increasing is that of payments to industry. On average they have risen by almost 21 per cent a year, and this is one feature of the Budget to which I want to draw attention tonight. This Government has acted to increase the size of the slice of the cake going to nonwage and salary earners. The percentage of the cake that goes to wage and salary earners has been reduced in a period when those people have been accused by the Treasurer, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and spokesmen for the Government, both inside and outside Parliament, as being mainly responsible for rises in prices. The evidence submitted by the Government to the Arbitration Commission showed that salaries and wages were responsible for less than half of the increase in prices. Partly the increase was due to inflation and partly it was due to migration. Wage and salary increases represented less than half of the increases in prices, yet Ministers and Government spokesmen inside and outside this Parliament who are opposed to the Labor movement have blamed wage earners as the main cause of inflation, price rises and excessive demands in the economy. 
The 2 Budgets preceding the present Budget were framed on the presumption that the demands for higher wages would place enormous pressures on prices and cause them to increase tremendously. That has not eventuated. In the last IS years the average percentage of the national cake - the gross national product - that has gone to wage and salary earners has risen by 024 per cent per annum. It would take over 40 years for the wage earners' share to increase by 1 per cent. Over a period of 15 years wage and salary earners have received about 60 per cent of the national cake yet they represent 90 per cent of the income earners in this country and their numbers are growing faster than is the share of the cake they are receiving. Even so, attempts are made to saddle wage earners with the responsibility for the inflationary position and for price rises brought about by the Government. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has asked us to state our position. For a long time we have been saying that the Government should be doing certain things. The honourable member now says: We are doing the things that you said we should be doing but now you are saying they are wrong'. We are not saying they are wrong. We have welcomed the positive aspects of the Budget. We have said that the Government has acted deceitfully by misrepresentation. It has not done the things that we have been saying it should be doing. The Government has been forced to move a little way towards our point of view but it has not reversed the trend of favouring the rich more each year and taking more from the poor each year. The trend has been continued with this socalled give-away Budget. The honourable member for La Trobe says that it is not admitted that the Government bad problems last year. He said: 'We had problems with a slump in the minerals market and in the wool market'. 
At least the Labor Party has leadership, which is something Joh Bjelke-Petersen of Queensland said Canberra is looking for. The people of Australia have shown in their response to gallup polls that they think the Australian Labor Party has a better leader than the present leader of the country. Of course the Leader of the Australian Labor Party will be the next leader of the country. 
I shall deal further with the question of leadership, which was also raised by the honourable member for La Trobe, but before doing so I wish to say that the mineral slump, the wool slump, the drought 15 years ago in central Queensland and all the other adversities and hardships that the honourable member for La Trobe complained about as being responsible for the decline in the economy, the decline in employment opportunities, the decline in morale and the uncertainty in business and investment should affect Australia far less than similar adversities and hardships would affect the developed nations of Europe and North America, which depend far more on overseas markets than Australia. Australia is essentially a self contained and self sufficient nation. If all the ships were stopped tomorrow we would still have a fairly good standard of living. The sorts of benefits that we get from exports are being very rapidly offset by the ill effects that are resulting from the blanket policy of the Government on foreign investment in this country and on the servicing of that investment, which is going to give us increasing balance of payments difficulties in the near future. 
The honourable member for La Trobe asked to what it is time for a change. He raised the matter of a swinging leader. I say that it is better to have a swinging leader than not to have a leader at all. 'We are all liberals now' were the words that he put into the mouth of the Leader of the Opposition. I suppose members of the Australian Labor Party do claim to be small '1' liberals. But I would remind the honourable member for La Trobe that when he first came to power the former Prime Minister, John Gorton, made the famous statement: We are all Socialists now'. So where does that put us? Apparently one of the reasons why he lost the leadership of the Liberal Parry of Australia was because some of the members of it objected to being described as Socialists. I will outline briefly what I consider a Socialist to be. First of all, Socialism is not, as the honourable member for La Trobe seems to think, nationalisation. 
A budding Socialist on the other side of the House claims that it is. The honourable member for Chisholm says that nationalisation is what Socialism means. 
The honourable member for Chisholm confirms that. Socialism is social ownership and control of the means of production, distribution and exchange. 
That is my policy. Social ownership is not necessarily ownership by the nation. 
No, of course it is not. Social ownership is ownership by the society. It may be ownership by the people who work in the industry; it may be ownership by a co-operative of producers in a primary industry; and it may be ownership by a co-operative of consumers in a retail industry. That is one of the main components of the labour movement in Britain, which is one of the bodies that sends delegates to conferences of the Labour Party in that country. I might say that the Labor Party in Queensland has a rapidly growing retail co-operative and the people of this co-operative send delegates to conferences of the Labor Party in that State. Has any honourable member ever heard of a cooperative sending delegates to conferences of parties of other political colours? 
The other political parties do not have any delegates because they do not believe in co-operative ownership. They believe in elitist ownership. They believe in capitalism. They do not believe in social ownership. They do not believe in ownership in the interests of society. They believe in ownership in the interests of the owners and those owners may never be the society; they must always be an elite. I am not saying that Labor governments always espouse this principle. I am not saying that there have not been times when they have unwisely nationalised things. I think  Mr Wilson  did things in Britain in a way which was not in the interests of the labour movement, even though his motives may have been social ownership. It is a fact that there were increases in the inequalities of income and property in Britain under the Wilson Government. I am not saying that that is what the Labor Party would want to bring about in Australia. I am saying the opposite. I am saying that it is the Liberal Party which wants to increase the inequalities of income and property and that its record shows that it has achieved this aim. 
The inequalities of power are very evident in the different administrations of the parties that sit on the opposite sides of this Parliament. On the other side of the Parliament are the power drunk leaders who kick upstairs or downstairs at will anybody on their front bench. On this side of the Parliament we have a democratic party system of election to the front bench and we have democratic decisions by all of the elected representatives on policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! There are far too many interjections. 
The Australian Labor Party has a democratic and open method of deciding policy that is not recognised by the power drunk leaders on the other side of the House. The honourable member for La Trobe asked what would happen to Australia's assets if the Utopia did not work out. At least more of them would stay in Australian hands. At leas; there would be more Australian assets. At least the assets would remain Australian and would not be sold out for cheap royalties or for cheap political gains. Our assets would not be sold out in the vain hope that the great and powerful friends to whom we sell them so cheaply will be here to protect us from the red hordes or the yellow hordes coming down from the north. There are better ways to protect Australia's assets than to sell them cheaply to our great and powerful friends. There are better ways of defending this country than by antagonising people by way of sabre rattling and atomic bomb rattling. There are better ways of defending this country than by asking somebody who has a bigger bomb to look after the country for us and becoming big meek serfs in a new economic era of neocapitalism. 
Under this Government decisions have been kept secret. Decisions have been made by advisory committees on which sit men like  Sir William  Gunn,  Sir Frank  Selleck,  Sir Albert  Axon, managers and directors and senior executives of Comalco, the Australian Gas Light Co., Felt and Textiles, Imperial Chemical Industries, Australian Consolidated Industries, Drug Houses of Australia, the Shell Co., and Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Such men sit on all sorts of commissions and committees, advis ory and otherwise. There are also men from Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission - everything from the Material Handling Advisory Committee to the Australian Immigration Planning Council and the advisory committee to the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Senior public servants and senior company officials change places as freely as if they were switching from one department or firm to another. Would I change the directors, asks one of the Government backbenchers. What I would do is to see at least that the Government of this country is decided by the elected representatives of the country and not by the elected representatives of private capital, of multi-national corporations like Shell, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd or Imperial Chemical Industries. 
An honourable member opposite calls multi-national corporation a dirty Word. I will say this much about multi-national corporations: At least they have a world outlook which this Government has not. They do recognise world citizenship much more freely than does this Government which will not even put a resolution to the United Nations on reform of the United Nations Charter to achieve democracy at world level because it wants to cut democracy off at the national level. But let all the multi-national corporations come in and dictate policy through all the advisory committees. Nationalisation in these circumstances would be a very democratic procedure because it would be decentralising control by taking control out of the hands of the multi-national corporations and putting it on a national basis. Nationalisation is not the only road to socialism. It may be a road in the other direction but at least in many cases it would be far prefer.ble to what this Government is doing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnes)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were the Meo people, whose resistance to the North Vietnamese he praised in answer to question No. 3307 (Hansard, 18th August 1971), led to believe that their efforts to preserve their independence would be supported if necessary by allied forces. 
Can he say whether it is a fact that these people were defeated by the North Vietnamese without obtaining local military support. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Has his attention been drawn to the use of Department of the Treasury personnel to draft letters for the Minister assisting the Treasurer thanking honourable members who have contributed to the debate on the Budget? Has his attention also been drawn to the use of departmental facilities by the Minister for Labour and National Service to circulate within his Department a condemnation of certain Australian Labor Party candidates, including the Leader of the Opposition? Without debating the merits of the material circulated, will the right honourable gentleman state what action he proposes to take to limit such partisan use of public resources? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Do large numbers of State and denominational schools have financial resources less than 40 per cent of the resources per student commanded by some of the schools for students of comparable age in respect of which the Government proposes to provide public funds per student equal to 40 per cent of the average costs per student of all State schools, however destitute or well off. 
Will the Government limit these subsidies until all State and approved parochial schools have been granted subsidies sufficient to give them at least 40 per cent of the means of the subsidised schools; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of interest paid to banks of issue in Australia is thereafter paid by government banks into government revenue. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of interest payments received by banks of issue in Australia represents (a) interest paid to depositors for their deposits which the bunk lends out and (b) interest on credit issued by banks on (i) securities owned by depositors and (ii) gilt-edged securities guaranteed by government assets. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the proposed mass medication in Central Australia to reduce the meningitis carrier rate result in an increased incidence of sulphonamideresistant infections due to the impossibility of ensuring that complete courses of sulphonamide are consumed. 
If no surveys are made to detect carriers, can reliance be placed on assessments of the value of this mass medication, especially as nutritional and other factors in the epidemiology are being attended to at the same time. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of a personal explanation after question time yesterday, the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  said that members of the Opposition had alleged that he had made a misstatement and was telling a lie in regard to the report of the Nimmo Committee. He referred to an interjection which I made and which is attributed in Hansard on page 1977 to  Mr Garrick  that the Minister had better read the report again. My interjection did not refer to the Minister's statement that the Nimmo Committee had no criticism that the multiplicity of health funds was inefficient or more costly. My remark referred to the context in which the Minister for Immigration made that statement which was in answer to a question which claimed that there was a multitude of inefficient and expensive socalled voluntary funds. I point out that the Nimmo Committee stressed that this multitude of funds is inefficient and costly particularly because of- 
This is the section of the Nimmo Committee report to which I referred. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of Australia's Gross National Product at factor cost is known to be expended on payment of interest to (!) banks of issue in Australia, (ii) lending institutions financed or controlled by those banks, (iii) insurance companies and (iv) manufacturers, wholesalers and pastoral companies. 
What percentage of the amount referred to in part (1) is known to be (a) included in the Gross National Product at factor cost and (b) paid directly by (i) local government authorities, (ii) State Governments, (iii) the Commonwealth Government and (iv) semi-governmental authorities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What taxation concessions or other incentives does the Government provide for development of Australian inventions in Australia. 
Will the Government allow costs of development of an invention to be offset against lump sum payments for the invention in the year of receipt of these payments. 
My question, which is supplementary to that asked by  the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Will he consider making free membership of medical funds available to families of TPI pensioners? Will he offer pensioners who lose their eligibility to the pensioner medical service full cover for pre-existing illness if they join a hospital and medical fund within 3 months of losing that entitlement? Will he discuss this possibility with the Minister for Social Services? Alternatively, will he give full repatriation medical entitlement to dependants of TPI pensioners? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the unanimously passed recommendations of the Universal Copyright Convention and the Berne Convention conferences in July 1971 at Paris to reduce restrictions on copyright for translation especially into less common languages and especially for technical and educational material. 
Will the Government promptly ratify the Paris Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a form entitled Deed of Licence issued by Ampol Petroleum (Q.) Pty Ltd of 44-46 Herschel Street, Brisbane, to managers of Ampol service stations. 
If so, is a licence in this form registrable under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act in that it deprives the licensee of all rights of lease, tenancy and good will and his estate of all claims in the business, subjects him to 30 days' notice of termination of licence, requires him to buy petroleum products only, from the licenser and may require him to sell only specified brands of tyres, tubes, batteries, etc., and to hold such stocks as the licenser requires. 
Will the Attorney-General take action to prevent undue price support collusion and undue hardship to licensees in such cases. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he obtain details of ownership and control of wheat quotas in Australia, if so, will he table them. 
If he cannot obtain them, why not. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Does section 13 of the Spirits Act 1906-1972 require him to ensure that bad quality spirits are not marketed. 
If so, what standards have been prescribed under that section to protect liquor consumers. 
Do the letters referred to in question No. 6471 indicate that he is abrogating this responsibility. 
Does his Department permit the importation of kirsch marachino down to 23 and advocaat down to 17 per cent alcohol by volume and other imports at strengths between 70 and less than 50 per cent of the requirement of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Can the high alcohol minimum requirements be fairly compared to a compulsory minimum tar or nicotine content in tobacco products. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government paid for trips to Canberra by spokesmen of the Australian Medical Association in order to ask them not to breach a' longstanding agreement for the first time by recommending increased fees at an interval of less than 2 years. 
Has an increase been justified by some doctors on the grounds of unusually rapid cost inflation. 
Has his attention been drawn to  the  action of Queensland Alumina and/or associated construction firms in dismissing, on 18th October 1972, 1,200 employees on  a  temporary construction project because of their claims for  a week's  severance pay, protective clothing, reduced working hours, fares to and from their home town once in 3 months, allowances for travelling time and penalty rates of pay for the substandard conditions and civic amenities, exorbitant rents and living costs, unhygienic environment at the work site and the dearth of adequate and convenient accommodation.  i(4)  If so, will the Government pay for rep resentatives of the unions concerned and their employers to come to Canberra and for Government experts to go to Gladstone so that appeals may be made to those concerned to resolve the dispute and to discover whether the agreements alleged to have been breached by the employees were unduly onerous, whether the employers were also in breach of the agreement and whether it is in the interest of the employers to delay construction on account of declining demand for alumina. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to letters from his colleagues, the New South Wales Minister for Health and the Minister for Customs and Excise, lo Canberra Consumers Incorporated referred to in a letter published in The Medical Journal of Australia of 19th August 1972. 
If . so, do these letters' indicate that the sole concern of the Governments in establishing alcohol concentrations at minimum levels in various kinds of liquor was to sustain revenue rates, while the law and the medical training of the advisers concerned would have allowed and suggested much lower minimum concentrations. . 
Will the Minister consult . with the colleagues referred to with a view to having the public welfare and the rights of consumers placed before considerations of revenue raising, or docs this herald consideration of further taxes on unprescribed drugs which will then have to be made stronger by manufacturers without regard to the physiological and pathological effects. - 
The Hospitals and Health Care Commission, as it has now been termed, will be established I hope, before the end of the year. Meanwhile there will be an interim committee. Several eminent people with expertise in the fields of hospital administration and medical planning have indicated their willingness to serve on this commission, and arrangements are being finalised for the secondment of  Dr Sidney  Sax, who has been Research and Planning Director with the New South Wales Health Department, to take on the chairmanship of the interim committee.  Dr Sax  has already been to Canberra and undertaken preliminary organisation for the investigations of this committee. It will be charged with the task of evaluating health care delivery at all levels, not just in hospitals but also in the community outside hospitals, with setting guidelines for the States, denominational hospitals, private hospitals, and, of course, hospitals in federal territories. It will not of itself administer health care except in limited regions for limited periods in pilot projects. It will be concerned rather as a research and resource organisation to coordinate and advise, on request, existing hospital and health care authorities. When it will make reports will depend on how its deliberations proceed, but I hope there will be some substantial report before the end of the year on specific areas needing federal help, particularly grants to States for hospital authorities and for health care delivery. 
The States may at any time approach the Commonwealth if they feel there is need for an especially urgent grant, but the Government is not disposed to grant assistance on the basis of projected bed needs on the basis of the sort of health care that has been going on for many years past, that is, on the assumption that the same sort of care - tow-away medicine - will continue. We believe that there must be far more emphasis on community health care, on preventive care and on keeping people out of hospitals. Although this involves a lot more organisation and the engagement of a lot more specialists and ancillary workers it works out cheaper in the long run. We will be encouraging the States to look at this partial solution to the bed shortage rather than making up bed numbers as such. 
My Department has no specific plans to overcome this problem. I know that the problem is widespread and growing, not only in this country but also, probably, world-wide. It is bound up, among other tilings, with the shortage of general practitioners and the mal-distribution of doctors generally. One of the solutions sought in some European countries has been to increase the incentives for doctors to take up general practice. For instance, Holland has made it mandatory for doctors not only to have more community medicine content in their undergraduate courses but also, before they are recognised to practise as general practitioners, for them to undertake 2 years' full time training in a position which is subject to supervision by qualified general practitioners. This course, I understand, has stemmed the flow out of general practice. There is now a relative rise in the proportion of doctors entering general practice. 
My Department is looking at the possibility of encouraging medical schools which are making moves in this direction, of increasing the content of general practice in undergraduate courses and of making available Government sponsored community health centres staffed by salaried or fee-for-service doctors with ancillary workers and other team facilities to upgrade the standard of general practice. These centres would be used, among other things, for the training of undergraduates. I am also having discussions with the Post-graduate Federation in Medicine, the College of General Practitioners and other bodies concerned with post-graduate training in genera] practice so that we can upgrade the status and the standards in this field. Another solution is to improve domiciliary services in order to take the load off doctors in cases where a specific medical qualification is not necessary for home visits. There is a very great backlag in this country compared, for instance, with Britain in the provision of domiciliary nursing, which has been left virtually to voluntary organisations. This whole question will come within the sphere of interest of the Sax Committee, which has already made some preliminary investigations of health needs and priorities in this country. 
There is no guarantee that foot and mouth disease cannot enter this country, no matter how stringent are the measures taken. However, I believe that the measures adopted by Australia are as stringent as those applying anywhere else in the world. In fact, there are constant complaints about the stringency of these measures, particularly from cattle breeders who have to contend with long waits before they can import blood stock into this country. These stringent conditions have been stepped up on occasions, particularly on one or two occasions when foot and mouth disease obtained a very temporary hold in this country and cost a lot of money. As the honourable member said, there have been outbreaks of foot and mouth disease from time to time in Europe and, for example, it has cost the United Kingdom many hundreds of millions of dollars to stamp out the disease when it has entered that country. If such an outbreak occurred among the wild stock in this country, for instance among the buffaloes, it probably would be impossible ever to eradicate the disease from this continent. 
One of the things at which my Department ls looking is the possible provision of an offshore island such as Norfolk, Cocos or Christmas Island, so that the long quarantine period in Britain would be done away with and we could have cattle, sheep, goats and pigs imported into this country, particularly for breeding purposes, with a wait of only  6  to 9 months instead of the wait of, from memory, 9 to  18  months that is required under the present arrangements. This would also result in substantial savings for people importing stock and would make it possible for the stock to be imported without any relaxation of the stringent requirements Australia has. 
I am not aware of the specific inquiries. None has come through me. 1 can quite understand the need for virus laboratory investigation to be available in the veterinary field, particularly in Australia. I appreciate that this need will remain after the provision of a high security animal quarantine station. A quarantine station, of itself, will not necessarily provide laboratory facilities. However, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories does conduct an international virus reference laboratory which provides some of the facilities which no doubt would be required for a high security veterinary virus laboratory. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratory has made some representations to me for the provision of a high security virus laboratory to be conducted as an extension of the CSL's international virus reference laboratory. I am sure that this will provide the sort of service which will be needed. If the honourable member can supply further details I shall see that they are taken into account when decisions are being reached regarding a high security virus laboratory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits is currently under review by my Department. However, decisions have already been made relating to the following recommendations: 
Recommendation 39: (that) the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee consider the listing of oral contraceptives where required for certain specific medical reasons.' 
The Government has announced that it has decided to place certain oral contraceptives on the list of prescribed drugs for pharmaceutical benefits purposes. 
Recommendation 40: (that) the Commonwealth provide substantial subsidies for the expansion of Family Planning Clinics.' 
The Government has announced that it will give financial support to family planning services. It will provide $200,000 a year to the Family Planning Association of Australia and $100,000 a year to a national body representing Catholic family planning centres. 
In addition, the Government will ask these organisations to develop services for the provision of family planning advice for Aboriginals, including training of suitable personnel to provide for an expansion of such services. 
Additional grants, up to a total of $30,000, will be available to other voluntary organisations actively involved in the provision of family planning services. 
Analgesic and sedative combinations, to which the honourable member has referred, have not as yet been removed from the schedule of benefits. I have told the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee that it is the wish of the Government that the reasons should be made public when changes are made and particularly when restrictions are made on available benefits. The Committee commendably had started to do this even before the recent elections in regard to tricyclic anti-depressants. Following this commendable initiative the Committee has indicated the reasons for removing from the schedule benefits for pensioners which incorporated sedatives with pain killers. I am not in a position to state whether the report which suggested that hundreds of pensioners have died as a result of using these combinations is correct. I would think that any such assertion could only be a guess. Certainly such tablets do figure in suicidal attempts as do other sedative and sleeping tablets which are the commonest means of deliberate attempts at suicide. There is a very high incidence of such attempts by elderly people, including pensioners. I do not know whether it would be accurate to say that some hundreds of people have died as tha result of taking these tablets. But let us suppose that there were  300  deaths from this cause. If this were so there would still be only about one-hundredth of J per cent of pensioners in Australia affected. This is not a very high incidence considering the incidence of successful suicides and particularly suicides from drugs. 
In perspective I do not know whether we can look on this as a very major or startling public health problem. But it is a problem. The biggest problem is not the number of successful suicides but the number of people whose lives are blighted by becoming hooked on sedative drugs which are not necessary for the prevention of pain. Psychiatrists and other experts in the fields of public health and epidemiology are showing increasing concern over the use of sedative drugs. The vaunted benefits of those drugs when they were first introduced to the prescribing doctor have been tempered over the years to a point where most doctors are becoming doubtful as to whether they really ought to be used at all. If they should be used then probably they should be prescribed only for very limited periods in crisis situations such as pre-operative conditions. This opinion is being circulated to doctors with requests that they take steps to wean people off these drugs before they are banished from the list. They have not been removed from the list as yet. I understand that this is planned as from 1st August. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The application of 24th February 1972 was made to the Director-General of Health who declined to allow the advertisement to be published with his authority. No other applications have been received and the Ordinance has since been amended by the present Government to remove the prohibition on the advertising of contraceptives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have had lengthy discussions with  Dr Kalokerinos  and, as a result, arrangements have been made for him to take part in an International Collaborative Medical-Scientific Study on Malnutrition, Infection and Immunity. This study is being currently carried out in several countries, under the sponsorship of the World Health Organisation. 
I have prepared a reply to an honourable senator which bears upon this matter, but from memory the senator's question does not refer to a film. When this matter was first drawn to my attention, I took steps to see what could be done to inform people along the lines proposed in the question which is on the notice paper and to which an answer will be supplied today. I was not able to follow up the suggestions of the honourable senator. That is why I arranged for this film from the film collection of the National Library to be shown this evening. I have not been able to see it myself but I am informed by a member of my staff that it is the least committed material that was available at the time from the Library to inform honourable members and honourable senators of some of the human issues involved in the question of abortion law. I hope that those persons who wish to look at these problems from the aspect of a young couple who are placed in a dilemma in such a situation will gain some food for thought by seeing this film. I do not think there is anything really original in it but I hope that it will be helpful. I will follow up the honourable member's suggestion about seeing whether it can be shown on television. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
It is understood that the Australian Dental Association has some reservations concerning the dental equipment used in dental therapist training schools in New Zealand. 
Australian students returning from New Zealand will attend brief orientation courses to familiarise them with Australian conditions. 
Yes. Forty students, who will commence their training in Christchurch in September 1973, will return to Australia for the second year of their course when they undertake their clinical training. This is necessary because the effectiveness of the New Zealand school dental program has reduced the prevalence  of  dental disease to such an extent that there is a shortage of clinical material for teaching purposes. 
There has been an increasing amount of complaint from doctors, chemists and distribution organisations regarding the serious backlag in orders for influenza vaccine from the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. My inquiries indicate that several factors are behind this. Firstly, there seems to be- 
Several moves have been undertaken to combat the increasing problem of drug abuse. There has been an interdepartmental committee which I understand has produced a preliminary report which has not yet come to my table. My Department has appointed a specialist in drug problems who is at present attending an overseas conference on this matter. I have had conversations with Pastor Noffs of the Wayside Chapel who was instrumental in setting up a drug referral centre in Sydney. I have also had conversations with  Dr Stella  Dalton of Wisteria House in Parramatta, who founded the movement known as 'The Way Back' to assist people who have problems of addiction with alcohol and other drugs. 
These informal and formal discussions &lt;vill continue. I hope that some of the initiatives started by these people will ensure that Australia will not lag behind the world, and that perhaps we could even take the lead in some of our methods of handling these social problems of drug abuse, as well as medical problems. Fortunately we have to guide us the experience of overseas urban areas so that we may be able to prevent some of the more widespread disasters that they have experienced. 
At the moment, valium happens to be the biggest volume prescription under the national health scheme and its cost, therefore, is of some concern to the Government, particularly as it is approximately twice the price which has been condemned in the United Kingdom. However there are limited means by which an Australian government can police this sort of pricing. For one thing, the Government does not have access to the accounts of the drug firms operating in Australia and certainly not of the parent firms in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Over recent years, my Department has obtained more favourable terms in the pricing of drugs available under the national health scheme. I think that the Department is becoming a little more expert in such negotiations and there is now more comparability between the price ranges in Australia and those in the United Kingdom and New Zealand although, by and large, we are still at some disadvantage but certainly not as at great a disadvantage as 5 or 6 years ago. 
The only more effective way - I think this is the consensus in the Government - to make a substantial impact on charges which we suspect are excessive is to vary the marketing arrangements so that the Government has an inside knowledge of these costs. That is, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission, or some company in association with it, could enter the field of production of the drugs in question. The drugs 
Valium and librium are patented. A patent is. of course, a legal form of monopoly. We believe this monopoly has to be modified. Other countries have done this by changing their patent laws by reducing the length of the patent, which. I think, is approximately 15 years in Australia. This period is possibly excessive and is being looked at. Italy is one country that has changed this law as have the United Kingdom and Canada. 
Another method is to pass a law for compulsory licensing of competitors. That is to say, the patent would have to be let out to competitors to produce the drug under reasonable terms. All these avenues are being looked at by my Department in conjunction with the Attorney-General's Department. The Government is exploring the possibility of acquiring one or more privately owned drug firms or entering into some marketing arrangements between drug firms and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. I am sure that the Government will be able to act more effectively in this field in the near future. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are delays of 4 to 5 weeks in filling current orders. 
Supplies are available to the public on doctors prescription although there may be some delay in obtaining the vaccine. 
No. As far as is known there are no vaccines in the United Kingdom identical with that produced by CSL. 
Requirements for 1972 were 600,000 doses, this year to date CSL has issued 1.3 million doses and total production will be about 2.4 million doses - four times the requirement for 1972. This is a very successful effort where demand for the vaccine has far exceeded expectations. I do not consider that this issue has any relevance to the Government's involvement in the pharmaceutical industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows 
There are delays of 4 to 5 weeks in filling current orders. 
Supplies are available to the public on doctors prescription although there may be some delay in obtaining the vaccine. 
No. As far as is known there are no vaccines in the U.K. identical with that produced by C.S.L. 
Requirements for 1972 were 600,000 doses, this year to date C.S.L. has issued 1.3 million doses and total production will be about 2.4 million doses - 4 times the requirement for 1972. This is a very successful effort where demand for the vaccine has far exceeded expectations. I do not consider that this issue has any relevance to the Government's involvement in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Repatriation Pensioners in Robertson Electoral Division  (Question No. 470) 
These figures have not come to my notice. I will make inquiries and let the honourable gentleman know. I understand that there have been no prosecutions of women involved in abortions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are fully equipped facilities for training limited numbers of dental therapists in Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. 
(a) and (b) The training schools in Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia have  a  collective capacity for training only some 70 dental therapists annually. In order to rapidly initiate the Australian School Dental Service, it was decided to seek the assistance of the New Zealand Government for the training of additional dental therapists, as an interim measure, pending the development of extensive training facilities in Australia. 
A report is not available. No report was required as full details of the training programs and capacities of both Australian and New Zealand training schools are constantly available to my Department 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics relating to the number of women using oral contraceptives in each of the last 5 years are not available. It has been estimated, on the basis of information gathered by my Department, that prior to the listing of oral contraceptives as a benefit on 1st February, 1973, between 725,000 and 750,000 women were using them and this is estimated to represent approximately 30 per cent of the population of those aged 18 to 45 years at 31st December 1972. 
It is estimated by my Department that about 1,000,000 women will be using oral contraceptives at 31st December, 1973, and that this will represent approximately 40 per cent of all women who will be aged 18 to 45 years at that date. 
(a) To a woman who buys monthly, the cost of  a  month's supply of oral contraceptives is one dollar, where the prescription was written after 1st February, 1973. The cost of a month's supply a year ago was $1.99*, if purchased monthly. 
To a woman who buys every two-months, the cost of a month's supply of oral contraceptives is either: 
fifty cents if the prescription was written after 1st April 1973; or 
one dollar if the prescription was written between 1st February, 1973 and 1st April, 1973. 
The cost of a month's supply a year ago was $1.79*  if  purchased every 2 months. 
Six months' supply would not normally be obtained at the same time. As from 1st April 1973, oral contraceptives can be prescribed on the basis of  2  cycles' supply on the original prescription, which may also cover 2 further repeat supplies, each for two cycles. Repeat supplies may only be supplied at the same time as the original under special provisions which would apply in relatively few instances in the case of oral contraceptives. 
The cost of a month's supply a year ago was $1.37* if purchased every six months. 
* The costs for one year ago are based on the average cost of a month's supply of oral contraceptives available at that time, and on the assumption that supplies were made at prices recommended by the Pharmacy Guild  of  Australia. 
On the basis of 725,000-750,000 women using oral contraceptives, my Department has estimated that revenue from sales tax under pre-benefit arrangements would have been in the vicinity of $2m for the period of 12 months preceding the existing arrangements. 
On the basis of 1,000,000 women, it is estimated that the cost to the government of making oral contraceptives available as a pharmaceutical benefit for a full year will be of the order of $8.4m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Representatives of the Australian Dental Association have expressed the opinion that there could be opposition by dentists to the treatment by dental therapists of children beyond primary school age. 
Yes. The Government sees no reason to deny children aged 13 and 14 years the benefits of the regular dental care provided by dental therapists. 
Full coverage of children under the age of 15 years is anticipated by 1985. The estimated approximate number of dental therapists required throughout Australia at that time would be: 
To treat children aged 3 to 11 years inclusive 2,900. 
To treat children aged 3 to 12 years inclusive 3,200 
To treat children aged 3 to 13 years inclusive - 3,500 
To treat children aged 3 to 14 years inclusive - 3,800 
The above estimates were based on official population projections, information supplied by the New Zealand School Dental Service and experience in the Australian Capital Territory and Australian States. 
Projections of the population of Australia are published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, Canberra. Articles on the New Zealand and South Australian school dental services have been published in professional journals. 
 I have seen reports of the statement by Professor Pauling referred to by the honourable member. In fact, I raised the subject with him this morning. The Professor has agreed with me that although nuclear tests as a whole have been about as dangerous as chest X-rays in certain respects - I should not really use the word dangerous'; I should say that the tests have done as much harm as X-rays in certain respects - nevertheless, with the precautions and techniques that have been developed here the damage to future generations is approximately one-sixtieth as much from the chest X-rays done in Australia as the damage from the French nuclear tests and other nuclear tests in the atmosphere. This comes mainly of course from French tests as far as Australians are concerned. 
These complaints have come to my notice - not through the Press but directly - and have been referred for attention not to the Hospital and Health Services Commission, because unfortunately the Commission as such, has not yet been established but to an interim committee which has been set up and which depends on my departmental officers for servicing. It will be some time before we can process the urgent needs of individual hospitals and voluntary organisations. In the meantime it would help considerably if the State authorities, the Church authorities and others concerned were to make detailed submissions to the interim committee, or to the Commission when it begins to operate as such, so that a system of needs and priorities can be set up for Commonwealth aid in this sort of activity. We envisage that when the national health insurance scheme is fully operative in the middle of next year approximately half of the costs of State hospitals will be met by the Commonwealth, which should be of considerable help to those hospitals in which these problems arise. In the meantime, if we could get from the State authorities more detailed submissions and some indication of the needs and priorities it would help in the making of an earlier decision by the committee, by the Commission after it is so constituted, and by Cabinet. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recognised hours of duty for medical practitioners in the Commonwealth Public Service are 36 hours per week. However, most medical practitioners in clinical areas are rostered and work additional hours without remuneration. 
Medical practitioners in non-clinical areas, whilst not rostered are expected to remain on duty until completion of their daily work, even if this extends through hours beyond the recognised 36). 
With the exception of Quarantine Officers, overtime payment or other recompense is not payable for this in m&gt; Department 
Medical officers rostered for quarantine duties are eligible for limited extra duty payment to cover time worked outside recognised hours for boarding and inspecting ships. 
Yes. 
No. 
My Department has prepared some figures along these lines which I will let the honourable member have. I have not with me on this occasion any of the details sought. However, the general position is that there are differences in the attitudes of the States to the qualifications of doctors from different countries. I think that this is of concern to most of the State registration bodies, as well as to the Commonwealth Government. Unfortunately, attempts to achieve uniformity in the registration of. doctors from overseas have not been successful, mainly because one State has refused to take part in deliberations between the Commonwealth and (he States on achieving uniformity of registration. That State's attitude is that it is quite happy to have uniformity of registration as long as its standards are the ones that are adopted. The question of graduates from Asia is being considered by my Department, particularly from the point of view of shortages of doctors in Federal Territories. The Federal Government has been more liberal, in general, in allowing registrations recognised in other countries to be accepted in Australia with a view to overcoming shortages, particularly in the Northern Territory. We will continue our deliberations with the States with a view to achieving more uniformity and better recognition of the qualifications of migrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
On two recent occasions quarantine requirements were not fully met in respect of plants and fruit carried on aircraft which were returning to Australia from overseas. In the first case, because of an oversight, a bouquet of flowers was not declared to either customs or health officers on arrival of the Prime Ministers party at Canberra Airport. The flowers, which were anthuriums, and a farewell gift to  Mrs Whitlam  from the Prime Minister of Mauritius, were taken on board without  Mrs Whitlam's  knowledge. However, immediately my department became aware of the existence of the flowers, they were duly inspected as would normally be done in such a case. Although anthuriums and other cut flowers are not prohibited Imports, such imports are required to be inspected by an officer of my Department. In this case, the inspecting officer reported that the flowers in question were clean and non propagatable. They contained no roots, soil, insect pest or other evidence of disease. They were passed for import. This is normal practice. In the second case four mangoes were imported on a V.I. P. flight bringing back to Australia the Minister for Defence and the party accompanying the Minister. These mangoes were unfortunately overlooked when the declaration was made and were not detected by a quarantine officer. I am quite satisfied that in both cases an accidental oversight occurred. 
Following these occurrences, I arranged urgent discussions between my Department and other Departments concerned with a view to preventing a recurrence of these incidents. 
Yes. 
Department of the Environment and ) Conservation: Accommodation (Question  No. 620) 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled Community Health Program for Australia'. 
I am not aware of specific recent publications concerning the fallout of the 3 contaminants mentioned by the honourable member, that is, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulate matter. In regard to the effects of fine particulate matter on the human respiratory tract, this has not been proven but there is very strong circumstantial evidence that it does damage the human respiratory tract. Certainly, it does aggravate the irritant effects of sulphur dioxide in laboratory animals and it has been generally accepted by authorities on air pollution that the concentration of fine particles in air should be one of the factors monitored to assess the damage done to human communities and to measure fallout. I think the clean air authorities have used mainly sulphur dioxide and solid particle concentration as an index of air pollution and this is what is being monitored, mainly by State authorities. I could get further details on this, if that is what the honourable member would wish. The honourable member mentioned particularly, I think, sub-micron particles. I do not know to what particular size this refers. I know that particles of less than 5 microns, which is five-millionths of a metre, can penetrate the air sacs of the lung and presumably this means that they could contribute to pneumonia and fibrosis and do permanent damage to lung tissue and loss of lung tissue. The only really epidemiological evidence we have concerns the fact that in a series in London, adult males had a continual increase of the amount of sputum they produced when exposed to increasing concentrations of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter. There is an increased incidence of both upper and lower respiratory tract infections in infants exposed to these 2 contaminants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Family planning advice or services are offered by a wide range of private and public organisations throughout Australia. Information regarding the total number of clinics is not currently available. 
The two principal private organisations operating family planning clinics are the Family Planning Association of Australia and the Catholic Family Planning Centres. A number of smaller private organisations offers advice and services largely on a local basis. Information is not available regarding the extent of State Government involvement in family planning activities, nor of the family planning clinics understood to be operated by some public hospitals. 
The Family Planning Association of Australia has branches in each State and Territory. The locations of the major Branch offices of the Family Planning Association are as follows: 
Family Planning Association of Australia (Headquarters) and Family Planning Association of New South Wales,Caminer House, 92 City Road, Chippendale, New South Wales 2008. 
Family Planning Association of Victoria, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000. 
Family Planning Association of Queensland, 230 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley, Queensland 4006. 
Family Planning Association of South Australia, 74 Fairford Street, Unley, South Australia 5061. 
Family Planning Association of Western Australia, P.O. Box 134, Subiaco, Western Australia 6008. 
Family Planning Association of Tasmania, P.O. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are only three instances in the States where my Department occupies buildings which are not Commonwealth owned and where lease arrangements have not been entered into with the Department of Services and Property. These are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has no reliable information on this matter. However, when appearing before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits, a representative of the Australian Dental Association was asked about the frequency of prescriptions from dentists and he replied: 
We do not really know the answer, but hazarding a guess from random questioning of members of the profesion, I would say it would be around 2 prescriptions per week at the present time'. 
It should be noted that State and Territory controls over prescribing of antibiotics and analgesics by dentists are not uniform. 
In the absence of reliable information on numbers of prescriptions and the drugs involved itis not possible to provide an estimate of the cost. 
In those cases where it is the practice of the dentists to refer patients to a medical practitioner, the saving to a private patient if dentists were authorised to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits would be the difference between the medical practitioner's consultation fee and any health insurance refund. In the cases where the dentist writes a prescription himself, the saving to a private patient, if dentists were authorised to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits, would be the difference between the cost of the drugs at private dispensing rates and the relevant patient contribution (which is $1 in normal circumstances), provided that the item is a pharmaceutical benefit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Where direct financial commitment by the previous government was concerned, my understanding is that the granting of $10,000 to the Family Planning Association of Australia in 1972 to assist in sponsoring the First Medical and Scientific Congress of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (part of 1 (iii) to my reply on 30 May 1973 (Hansard, page 2923), was its only response. 
The initiatives undertaken by the present government were not taken in response to requests made to the government. Rather the present government took these initiatives on its own account knowing full well the considerable need that had been built up over a number of years for real and direct assistance to the development and provision of family planning services in Australia. I see this immediate government assistance intended only as a commencement in this way. 
In these provisions, the present government has already made the following commitments: 
United Nations Fund for population activities $225,000 for 1973/74. 
International Planned Parenthood Federation $125,000 for 1973/74. 
Family Planning Association of Australia $200,000 a year from 1 April 1973. 
National Catholic Welfare Committee of Australia $100,000 a year from 1 April 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician advises that he is unable to provide the estimates of cost of hospital and medical services in Australia as requested by the honourable member. He has, however, been able to provide the estimates of expenditure on health services set out in Table 1, which are taken from estimates prepared for inclusion in the Australian National Accounts. 
While the coverage of the figures relating to the public sector is reasonably complete, full information is not available in relation to private final consumption expenditure on health services and private capital expenditure on health facilities. In relation to the former, the Australian National Accounts (see table of the 1970-71 issue) do show an item 'chemists goods', but this item includes much expenditure which cannot be regarded as expenditure on health, and a satisfactory estimate of the health component cannot be made at present. With regard to the latter item, an estimate of private fixed capital expenditure on new buildings for health services is available from the building statistics collection. However, no estimates of expenditure on hospital, etc., equipment are available. 
Additional information on public sector expenditure on health services is available in other publications of the Commonwealth Statistician, in particular Public Authority Finance: Commonwealth Authorities' (Ref. No. S.12) - which is issued each year as a budget paper - and the mimeographed bulletin, Public Authority Finance: State and Local Authorities' (Ref. No. 5.43). The honourable member's attention is also drawn to earlier answers given in reply to similar questions (see Hansard of 27 April 1972, pp. 2178-81, and 6 and 7 May 1971, pp. 2877-8). 
My Department has undertaken some special surveys to complement other information available on which to make its own estimates of current account expenditure on health services for the years 1966-67 and 1969-70 (see Table II). Estimates of capital account expenditure on health services (e.g. new buildings for health services) have not been compiled by my Department. The former figures may be of interest to the honourable member and have been included in the table. It should be noted, however, that my Department's estimates are not strictly comparable with those supplied by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, mainly because, of differences in the classification of certain items and in scope and coverage. They have been compiled as an interim measure pending the development of collections by the Bureau of Census and Statistics which will enable health expenditure estimates to be made on a more uniform and comparable basis than at present. 
The whole question of the labelling of therapeutic medical goods, patent foods, and medicines and so on is under review by many committees in which my Department is concerned. At present a pamphlet is being drafted for supply to chemists, family planning centres and others interested to give the average citizen a brief account of the methods of family planning available, their reliability and the precautions necessary for people who use them. The honourable member's question relates specifically to the labelling of these goods. I will obtain details and provide them to him in my reply. 
We have had no formal proposals from the New South Wales Government on this matter, although there have been cordial consultations between the Hospitals Commission, the hospital authorities in New South Wales and the Sax Committee, which handles the allocation of funds for hospitals. We have formal submissions on the community health care program from 2 other States, and I am sure we will have one soon from New South Wales. The decision to allocate $4m to the Westmead project was influenced by the growing and urgent need for hospital beds, predominantly in 3 areas in Australia, namely the major complexes of Melbourne, particularly the western suburbs, the outer western area of Sydney and the Brisbane area. Unfortunately, no fixed plans were available for any specific site or any specific construction in Melbourne and Brisbane. But the Westmead project had been announced some years before. It was the considered opinion of the Cabinet that we could in this financial year allocate $4m to that project and usefully use that sum. This would not at all be possible in Melbourne and Brisbane where initial planning and siting had to occur. We therefore allocated a lesser amount to those areas. 
I am grateful for the interjection. It is pointed out that this was before the question of a by-election arose. The Westmead area is one in which acute deficiencies are suffered. There are instances of patients having to wait for as long as 2 hours to get a hopital bed in an acute emergency as the hospitals in the surrounding area very often do not have a bed available. I am sure that the State Government will see the force of this argument. In fact, it has indicated for many years that it has seen this need. I am sure that the allocation of this money will allow the project to proceed without further delay. We look forward to an early announcement. In fact, I would hope that next week some announcement will be made of further allocations under the proposals of the Sax Committee. 
The Australian Government, in co-operation with the States, has set up an advisory dental committee which has representation from the States, the Territories and the Australian Dental Association. Us function is to supervise an Australian school dental service. All States, except Victoria, will be training dental therapists next year. The Victorian Government has submitted a proposal to us for a dental training school which should be operative in 1975. As far as financing is concerned, the Australian Government will meet all capital and training costs for the dental therapy schools, all capital costs for the clinics for school children and threequarters of the running costs of these clinics. Following the experience in this field of New Zealand, Tasmania and South Australia in particular, we are sure that these proposals will make a major impact on the problem of dental caries and routine dental care of children generally. The Minister for Health in Victoria has expressed some misgivings about the fact that the advisory dental committee is responsible only to the Australian Minister for Health. He believes that this should be a joint responsibility of all Health Ministers. But I think the experience in the past with such joint responsibility has been that it makes for stagnation, inaction and buck passing. I can assure him that my officers, the advisory committee on which his administration is represented and everybody concerned are anxious only to co-operate at all stages in this activity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information which has been collated for the honourable member is too lengthy and complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The terms of reference of the Australian Dental Services Advisory Committee are: 
to advise the Minister for Health, through his Director-General, on matters relating to the establishment, organisation and operation of the Australian School Dental Service; 
to review and report on progress achieved by the States and Territories in establishing the Service; 
to review and report progressively on the effect of the Service on the dental health of its patients; 
to consider the need for, and recommend where appropriate, extension of the Service. 
The Australian Government, the States, the Territories and the Australian Dental Association are represented on this Advisory Committee. Therefore, considerable collective experience is available to the Committee in formulating its recommendations. 
Yes. 
and (5) Directives issued to the Slates on the planning and operation of the school dental clinics were based on: 
(5) 
Policies which were approved by the Government in February 1973 when the decision to proceed with the Australian School Dental Service was made; 
the discussions and report of the Conference which was held on 8-9 March 1973 to consider details of the proposed Australian School Dental Service and which was attended by representatives of the Australian Government, the Territories and the States. 
the recommendations of the Australian Dental Services Advisory Committee. 
This continent stands to lose more than any other by the introduction of foot and mouth disease, not only because of the large numbers of stock that could be affected but also because our wildlife could be affected. We could be placed in the position of never being able to eradicate the disease. It would be far harder to eradicate it here than, for instance, in Britain where campaigns costing many millions of pounds have been mounted to eradicate that disease. My Department has been aware of this for a long time and has used far stricter measures than any other country to keep the disease out. When it was known that there was an outbreak in Bali these measures were intensified to the point where we received some rather mild complaints about people being harassed and inconvenienced. For example, it is necessary to look at every item of footwear to make sure that soil is removed in a way that cannot be done on a practical basis with people coming to this country from every part of the world. I will get a detailed statement regarding the position in West Irian. I am aware of recent reports on this matter and I will let the honourable gentleman have a definite answer. I assure him that there has been a tightening up of the regulations in respect to people coming from Bali. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staffing establishment of the Australian Department of Health includes positions of: 
Chief Dental Officer (Dentist, Class 3), A.C.T. Health Services; 
Assistant Director-General, Dental Services Branch; 
Dentist, Class 3, Dental Services Branch; 
Dentist, Class 2, Dental Services Branch. 
and (3) (a) Vacancies for Chief Dental Officer (Dentist, Class 3), A.C.T. Health Services; Dentist, Class 3, Dental Services Branch; and 
Dentist, Class 2, Dental Services Branch, were advertised in the Press but appointments to the positions have not yet been made. 
The position of Assistant Director-General, Dental Services Branch, was not publicly advertised but was filled by the promotion of an officer with suitable experience and qualifications from within the Australian Public Service. 
The responsibilities of these positions are: 
Chief Dental Officer, A.C.T. Health Services- 
Manage, control and direct the A.C.T. school dental service; 
Advise senior management on dental matters as required. 
Assistant Director-General, Dental Services Branch - 
Control and direct the activities of the Dental Services Branch involving - consultation with State Authorities, academic bodies and professional associations; planning and provision of training schools, clinics, equipment and manpower; administration of Commonwealth's financial commitments under the scheme. 
Advise the Minister, Director-General and senior officers on policy administration and interpretation. Develop new policies to meet changing conditions and needs. Exercise delegations as required. 
Provide expert advice to Australian Government Departments and instrumentalities on matters of dental care. 
Dentist, Class 3, Dental Services Branch - Control and direct the work of the Dental Section in the co-ordination of the professional aspects of the operation of the Australian School Dental Service, including the training programmes for dental therapists. 
Dentist, Class 2, Dental Services Branch - Assist the 'Dentist, Class 3, in professional aspects of the operation of the Australian School Dental Service, including the training programmes for dental therapists. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All costs involved will be covered by normal plant quarantine inspection arrangements including, where appropriate, charging importers fees determined in accordance with the provisions of the Quarantine Act and Regulations. 
There are 3 aspects of the question that has been asked by the honourable member for Macarthur. The first concerns the health aspects associated with the phasing out of the provision of milk to school children. The sort of evidence that was brought forward at a recent conference that I had with State Ministers on this question has been generally available for some time. In fact, New Zealand discontinued its scheme in 1967 and Britain discontinued its scheme for all children over the age of 7 years in 1970. A Cabinet welfare committee report came before my predecessors in 1970 suggesting that it be phased out in Australia. There were various reasons, mainly political, advanced by my advisers as to why it was not done then. 
There were various reasons given. 
In deference to the sensitivities of the Leader of the Australian Country Party I will withdraw the point that I made' about political decisions. 1 will say that the reasons given were mainly concerning the dairy industry. 
The nutritional position is roughly this: When the scheme came in over 20 years ago there was some evidence that there were areas in Australia where children were deprived of protein and calcium. Evidence has been sought to confirm whether this is still the case and all the evidence indicates that this is not so. It is true that there are odd families in financial crisis - largely families that have been left in this crisis because of the failure of Commonwealth Governments in the past to cope with this crisis. They have left it to the States. In those families there is positive starvation. It is not a question of calcium and protein deficiency; it is a question of those families not having enough money to buy food. The Coombs Task Force and the Cabinet have agreed that it is far better to save this Si 2m - the cost has grown in 20 years from $3m to $12m - and make some provision for families in need than to try to force milk down the throats of those who do not want it. Of course, the schools that have have  r  st benefited by this have been those schools that have been able to put in refrigeration and make the milk attractive to the children; they have a good percentage of consumption. But there are some poor schools, and in some States it is left entirely to the parent organisations to provide refrigeration. Some of them cannot do this, and they would receive only 50 per cent of the funding for this under the Commonwealth scheme. So, a lot of milk has been wasted in areas where the best case could be made for continuing to provide it. The State Health Ministers have been told that we will consider the needs of special schools and classes on their merits and they have agreed to report to me along these lines by the end of this month. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the recommendation of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, the maximum quantity of Stemetil tablets available as a pharmaceutical benefit was reduced from 100 to 50 with effect from 1 August 1973. At the same time the restrictions on the prescribing of Stemetil as a benefit were removed and it is now available as a general benefit. 
In circumstances where the maximum quantity is insufficient for one month's treatment of a chronic condition at the prescribed dosage level, a doctor may, if he considers it to be in his patient's interest, apply to the Director of Health in his State for authority to prescribe a quantity of a benefit in excess of the listed maximum. Under this provision, a quantity of a benefit item sufficient for a month's treatment and two repeats may be authorised. This quantity would then be sufficient for three months' treatment. 
I must stress, however, that action in this regard is a matter for the patient's doctor to initiate at his own discretion. 
In view of the provisions outlined above, 1 would not propose to reverse my decision concerning the maximum quantity of Stemetil tablets available as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
Applications for Political Asylum in Australia  (Question No. 1030) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill will expand the involvement of the Australian Government in mental health and related health fields. It replaces the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act under which grants were made towards the capital cost of mental health institutions. That Act expired on 30 June 1973. The Bill adopts a different approach, while taking on a much wider view of mental health, than that of the earlier Act. It outlines forward looking and visible action, starting with some of the most neglected health areas and most care deprived groups in the Australian community. The Government proposes grants for the capital costs of approved additional community facilities for alcohol and drug dependent persons and the mentally disturbed or disabled. These will not be inside mental hospitals. They will include both non-residential and hostel facilities for prevention, outpatient treatment, training and rehabilitation. Besides funding capital projects we will make grants to meet maintenance costs of approved non-residential services for alcohol, drug and mental problems, including prevention, teaching, research and the evaluation of treatment programs. 
Under the Bill the Minister for Health will approve schemes and projects submitted by the States, local governing bodies and voluntary organisations. State schemes may include projects of voluntary organisations within the State. Research shows that community health care is often more effective than institutional care. Persons suffering from psychiatric and similar problems return to coping normally much more quickly when treated in their usual community environment, with their families and friends around them. Preventive, early treatment, education and aftercare services will be a feature of the projects to be undertaken. We shall be shifting the emphasis away from so called 'tow-away medicine'. 
We must abandon the institutionalised and quite often inflexible approach to health care. This approach, which unfortunately has almost grown to acceptance through habit rather than reason, involves ad hoc responses to urgent requests for health care along with the hope that things will work out. This has not been, nor will it ever be, a satisfactory approach to Australia's health needs. Government, and Government agencies, can no longer sit pat waiting for the next urgent call for help. Through planning and research we must anticipate these calls. It is now a well recognised policy in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada that the large and often impersonal mental hospitals and other similar institutions need to be substantially phased out and replaced by the types of services to be funded by this Bill with additional beds integrated into general hospitals. 
As the community health program gets further under way and as the Australian Hospitals and Health Services Commission completes its recommendations on hospitals and all other forms of institutional care we can expect to see similar developments accelerated in Australia. Consequently the Government intends that care in the community should henceforth be placed, in effect, at 'shop-front' clinics and, indeed, 'at the door-step' of families which might otherwise delay going to an institution for help. Early diagnosis and treatment, social support and follow-up will be closer to the approach of the old village doctor, parish priest or other traditional family friends. Decentralised services in local communities will be staffed by specialised, but not starch-fronted, personnel such as mental health visitors, psychologists, social workers and psychiatrists, all of whom will work closely with general medical practitioners and other community health people. 
Alongside community health programs will be an expansion of hostel and 'half-way house' accommodation for persons with chronic mental problems or social handicaps, who need residential care but not the more costly care of mental and general hospitals and nursing homes. The addition of community based services for alcoholism and drug dependency along with our new emphasis on other aspects of community mental health is a vital forward step in combating those serious community problems in a systematic way. Available manpower and other resources can thus be spread more widely and be more available at local level. In the next few years, further increasing local integration with community health, education and welfare services will remove more of the old stigma attaching to those need-, ing help which is not just physical. 
The Bill provides for allocations of up to $7.5m for each of the years 1973-74 and 1974-75 after which such services will continue to be supported under, and will be integrated with, the broader Australian community health program. Payments up to the level of approved allocations will be made as expenditure is incurred. However, the Bill also provides for advances to be made, and this provision will be widely used to cut through the timidity and red tape that so often strangles promising plans. 
The Bill authorises the Minister to make grants to voluntary organisations which have a role of co-ordinating the services, in more than one State, of their own organisation or other organisations. Claims in respect of expenditure incurred during 1973-74 or 1974-75 under approved schemes may be submitted up to 30 June 1976. Approvals may be subject to conditions and allocations may be varied during development of approved schemes. These provisions will give valuable flexibility to the recipients and enable adjustments to be made in the light of the rate of progress of individual projects. The Bill will bring, in a more effective and 'flexible way than the former assistance in the field of mental health, bridges to the developing broad community health field being expanded by the Government on the advice of the Interim Committee of the Australian Hospitals and Health Services Commission, whose first report on this subject I was privileged to table on 30 May last. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health on the activities of the Australian Department of Health for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comparisons between figures relating to bad debts written off by public hospitals can be notoriously misleading. Differences occur between hospital administrations both in the procedures adopted to assess a patient's ability to pay and in the method of subsequently raising accounts and recording adjustments in the hospital's ledgers. Changes in the accounting procedures used will also result in amendments to previously published bad debt levels. 
The relevant authorities have, however, provided the following figures: 
A change in the accounting system after 1969-70 in New South Wales is primarily responsible for the sharp decline in the figures shown. Part of the increase in the amount written off in 1971-72 for that State is attributable to the fact that a 50 per cent increase in patients' fees was introduced on 1 August 1971. 
The amounts written off in Queensland are in respect of public hospitals controlled by the State. 
It should be noted that public ward treatment is free in Queensland and bad debts are in respect of private and intermediate ward patients. The amount written off for the year 1970-71 was particularly low and there was a substantial carryover of bad debts to the following year. Increased fees also contributed to the amount written off in 1971-72. Private ward fees were increased in November 1970 from $10 to $13.50, and in November 1971, to $17.00 (plus extras). Intermediate ward fees were increased in November 1970 from $8.00 to $11.00, and in November 1971 to $14.00 (plus extras). 
Chronic ward fees were increased in November 1971 from $5.00 to $14.00 per day. During 1971-72 there was an increase in hospital fund contributions in Queensland, accompanied by a two month waiting period to obtain benefits. The increase in chronic ward fees during the two month waiting period was written off by the hospitals in 1971-72. 
The increase in bad debts written off in the Australian Capital Territory in 1971-72 is attributed to an increase in in-patient fees. On 1 August 1971 general ward fees were increased from $10.40 to $15.00 and private ward fees from $16.40 to $26.30. 
In Victoria the practice is to charge in-patients in public hospitals the full normal fee and later to assess their ability to pay, thus reducing the charge to that level. The amount by which the charge is reduced is expressed as an adjustment of the fee to a practical level. Assessed deductions and uncollected income for public hospitals in that State for the three years 1969-70 to 1971-72 were, 1969-70 $2,100,293; 1970-71 $1,521,683; and 1971-72 $2,490,693. 
Amounts written off as bad debts by public hospitals in South Australia are not available at present. However, in answer to House of Representatives Question No. 3351 in 1971, an amount of $633,700 was shown as representing the value of bad debts written off during 1969-70 by public hospitals in South Australia other than Country Subsidised Hospitals. 
Clause 6 reads: 
' The Minister may give his approval, for the purposes of this Act, to such schemes and applications of the kind referred to in sections 4 and 5 submitted to him as he thinks fit. 
An approval under sub-section (1) shall specify the financial year, or financial years, to which the approval relates. 
An approval under sub-section (1) may be given subject to such conditions as the Minister specifies in the approval. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: 
Where a scheme is submitted to the Minister under sub-section 4(2) by a local governing body established by or under a law of a State, the Minister shall, before giving his approval to the scheme, request the appropriate Minister of that State to consult with him concerning the scheme and, if that Minister does so consult with him, have regard to the view expressed by that Minister.'. 
I understand that Australian governments have not to date taken active steps to ensure that doctors prescribing for patients who are entitled to workers compensation or third party insurance cover write such prescriptions on other than national health prescription forms. I think the vast majority of doctors is using these forms. Therefore, in effect, federal funds are subsidising the cost of treatment under these insurance provisions. I can recall only one previous allusion to this matter. It was by  Mr Crawford  McKellar, an illustrious orthopaedic surgeon under whom I had the honour to serve for a few months in the Royal South Sydney Hospital, which is in your electorate,  Mr Speaker.  He has persistently claimed, if I remember correctly, that this practice ought to be discontinued, but I do not think many doctors have taken notice of him. In view of the imminent introduction of a scheme of national health insurance which will incorporate third party and workers compensation insurance as national responsibilities, I think this question will resolve itself in the course of negotiations between the Department of Social Security and the insurance bodies concerned. 
in reply - I briefly want to thank all the participants in this debate, particularly for their support of this measure. Before going any further I think I should mention that I have drafted an amendment as a revision of the amendment that was foreshadowed by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp). 
The points which were raised during the debate and to which I wish to draw particular attention are roughly these: The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  asked what the Government's attitude was to drug pushers. I do not think it is appropriate to go into great detail on this matter because this is not the place for a discussion of that legislation. It is more the concern of the law enforcement authorities, the AttorneyGeneral's Department, the Department of Customs and Excise and so on. Briefly, our attitude has been indicated in debates which were held during the time the previous Government held office. Our attitude roughly is that where a person is pushing drugs because he has a drug problem, because it is a means of obtaining drugs or getting money to obtain drugs, the primary emphasis ought to be on his treatment and not on his punishment. I believe that the law enforcement authorities, along with those who are concerned with the treatment of drug addicts, are increasingly coming to this point of view. Discussions are continuing between officers of my Department and other departments and also between the Ministers concerned to work out a more enlightened formula for applying penalties which, I would point out, we are certainly not moving to reduce. There is a case for increasing penalties in respect of the big merciless and ruthless operator. 
I cannot go along entirely with the words of the honourable member for Hotham who said that the drug pusher is not - I think he said this - the cause of drug addiction. That statement is correct as far as it goes, but I think we have to realise that there are some people who are experts at making big money by encouraging the person who is liable to take up drugs and by making addicts out of people in subtle and clever ways. In my view strong penalties are appropriate in these cases. The honourable member for Darling Downs spoke also of the dignity of labour and its importance in the rehabilitation of drug addicts. But the honourable member was rather unsympathetic when he came to consider industrial action that has been engaged in by nurses working in mental homes. Several speakers have pointed out the rather dehumanising effects on patients of the traditional mental hospital. I would point out that it also has considerable dehumanising effects on those who work in those hospitals as I did myself for some years in what we now call the bad old days, although we were proud of our enlightenment compared with earlier days. I have no doubt that in another 25 years we will refer to the stage of enlightenment now apparent in mental hospitals as the bad old days. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs spoke of a sinister attitude on the part of unions. I would say that members of these unions are victims of a system, every bit as much as the patients they treat and every bit as much as the psychiatrists who are trained to work within the system which society bred before there were such things as psychiatrists. They are victims, as much as every one of us who suffers from ignorance of these problems and particularly of the social causes which have been mentioned many times in this debate. Until we are aware of those social causes, until we can begin to roll them back instead of having them roll on as they are, increasing the burden of mental illness in the community, until we can reverse that position and until we know enough about society and the causes of mental illness, I do not think it is worthy of us to be pointing the finger of accusation at the insensitiveness of unions or anyone else engaged in this field. We are all guilty. We all ought to be co-operating with these people who work in the field of mental health and who have led the way to enlightenment. Never let us forget, in spite of all the bad things that have been said about mental hospitals, that it is basically the psychiatrists and the nurses who work in these hospitals who have led the movement for reform and reformed attitudes and eventually awakened the public conscience in these matters. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  referred to a specific clinic - the St Stephens Clinic - which has been set up in his electorate at East Ringwood. The honourable member envisaged a team of personnel including psychiatrists, psychologists and a social worker. In this context I would point out that it is perhaps time to be bringing into some of these centres - not necessarily the one at Ringwood but at some centres - the psychiatric nurse. They have to be brought out from behind the high stone walls and the dark damp buildings, just as the patients have to be brought out. They have a wealth of humanity, understanding and experience that can be useful in prevention just as it is in their rehabilitation work inside mental hospitals. They offer a dedicated reservoir of people who will help us considerably in setting up rehabilitation and preventive services. 
The honourable member for Hotham spoke of the menace of alcohol and the official statements which bear on this problem. He mentioned that the World Health Organisation classifies it as the fourth public health problem. It is probably higher than fourth in the more affluent countries. The honourable member called it the greatest killer drug of addiction, and asked why the Government continues to allow these drugs - alcohol and tobacco particularly - to be advertised on television and radio and in newspapers. In a rather resigned way he seemed to think that this was part of the scheme of things about which we could do very little. He cited an example of the advertising of a beverage for the young and explained how he felt that this also was enticing people to believe that they could not be happy unless they had this particular beverage. Of course, the Government has moved to phase out cigarette advertising - cigarettes are the most dangerous form of smoking - over the next 3 years on television and radio over which this Parliament is supreme. The Constitution gives us the power to regulate completely advertising in those fields. The Constitution does not give us the power to regulate advertising in the other media. 
However, the Government has made some moves towards laying down guidelines on a proper ethical standard of advertising for therapeutic goods. This has been discussed in great detail by the National Therapeutic Goods Committee on which State governments as well as the Australian Government are represented. Because of the pressure of time I will not be able to state in detail some of these measures. Suffice to say that they are aimed at preventing misleading advertising and ensuring that the advertising of therapeutic goods should tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. The whole truth includes the side effects of drugs, the precautions that should be observed in administering them, the contra indications with particular reference to dosage regimes during pregnancy and so on. At present these matters are not observed by reputable medical journals advertising to the medical profession. They are not observed by magazines which adhere to the existing advertising code. Incidentally, no State has moved to my knowledge to enforce this code. It is a purely voluntary code and there are several fairly large magazines which do not really observe it. When they do, they refer to officers of my Department who advise them on what is acceptable. 
A lot more remains to be done. A lot more can be done if there is goodwill among the States but it seems that this will not happen. It appears that there are some States which, perhaps because of their political philosophy or timidity or whatever, are inhibited about bringing in these restrictions. Perhaps they feel that they are in some way encroaching on personal freedoms and therefore are not willing to be tough. They will have to face up eventually to the reality that there is a responsibility on governments to restrict what I will call brainwashing through advertising and to take some action to protect the consumer against misleading advertising. Moves like those that Ralph Nader has made are awakening governments to their responsibilities in this regard. The honourable member for Hotham also asked me for the Government's attitude to his proposal to adopt the United Kingdom method of dealing with addicts rather than the law enforcement approach which is prominent in the United States of 
America. This is not on easy question for me to answer yes or no. It is not a black and white issue. It is true that in the United Kingdom availability of drugs to addicts through legally prescribed avenues has helped to get away from the punitive approach which probably is counter-productive. The only major aspect of the United Kingdom approach that seems to be favoured by most drug authorities is the methadone blockade approach mentioned by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  That is already being funded and assisted by governments in Australia. Generally the scheme, as described by the honourable member, has been in force in Queensland for as long as I can remember. A morphine addict, for example, if he registers and reports can be assigned to a doctor and a pharmacist and can get his supplies regularly so that the motivation to break and enter chemists shops and doctors cars or in other ways to get into trouble with the law in order to obtain supplies is removed. 
No. Methadone blockade is helpful only to addicts to the opiate drugs, pethedine and so on. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  asked that sympathy be shown to the special program problems in South Australia. I assure him that this will be done, and I hope that in the near future we will be able to announce a substantial acceptance of the proposals by the South Australian Government. I commend the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Directives to the States based on the discussions and report of the Conference held on 8 and 9 March 1973 to discuss the Australian School Dental Service, are: 
The initial aim of the Australian School Dental Service is to provide dental care for children attending infants and primary schools after which the scheme will be expanded to cover pre-school and secondary school children under fifteen years of age. 
No charge should be made for dental care provided by the scheme. 
Dental clinics, of either fixed or mobile design, should be established in close physical association with the schools. 
As the dental scheme progresses, a dental therapist should ultimately be able to handle an annual average of 500-600 children in areas where the drinking water has not been fluoridated. In those areas where the water has been fluoridated, the average annual workload for each therapist would be approximately 900 children. 
Dental therapists should work under the general direction and control of registered dentists. A ratio of one dentist to approximately ten dental therapists would be appropriate for this purpose. 
Specialist services, such as orthodontic treatment, will not at present be included in the Australian School Dental Service. 
The training program for dental therapists in the various States should be sufficiently standardised to permit subsequent employment of therapists in all States and Territories. Entry qualifications to the dental therapy schools should also be subject to these requirements. 
) Directives to the States based on the recommendations of the Australian Dental Services Advisory Committee, are: 
The agreed arrangements are that the Australian Government will provide for payments to be made to the States for expenditure on the School Dental Service under the following general headings: 
capital expenditure on training facilities 
running costs of training facilities 
capital expenditure on clinics 
running costs of clinics 
The Australian Government will meet the full capital and operating costs of approved training facilities, including associated hostel facilities for dental therapists, as well as the capital cost of providing school dental clinics. In addition the Australian Government will meet three-quarters of the cost of operating the clinics established in, or providing services at, the various schools. 
With regard to the prior approval for expenditure, the Committee agreed to the following arrangements: 
In order to enable the Minister to determine whether any expenditure of a capital nature (including the replacement of capital equipment) should be approved by him, the State authorities shall ensure that: 
details of any proposal which will involve the payment of Federal funds shall be submitted in writing to the Federal Government before any expenditure is incurred or any commitment made in respect of that proposal; 
the Minister shall be supplied with such information at such times and in such manner and form as he shall from time to time require.' 
Any assets acquired or services or facilities provided by a State the cost, or part of the cost, of which has been met by the Australian Government under these arrangements shall not, without the prior written approval of the Minister, be used otherwise than for the purpose for which approved. 
To facilitate the provision of funds by the Australian Government the States will be required to submit annual estimates of expenditure by 1 April in each year for the ensuing financial year (1 July-30 June) and if necessary to submit revised estimates during the course of a financial year by 1 February in that year. 
Auditor-General certification in respect of expenditure against advances for specific capital projects will be required following the completion of the projects and annual statements of expenditure in respect of running or operational expenditure, duly certified by the AuditorGeneral, should also be furnished. These certifications will enable any adjustment necessary to be made in respect of the advances provided by the Australian Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In discussions with representatives of the States, it has been pointed out that as the Australian School Dental Service progresses, each dental therapist should ultimately be able to handle an annual average of 500-600 children in areas where the drinking water has not been fluoridated. In those areas where the water has been fluoridated, the average annual work-, load for each therapist would be approximately 900 children. 
The Dental Services Advisory Committee has made no recommendation on this matter. However, general agreement was reached at a Conference held on 8 and 9 March 1973, to discuss the Australian School Dental Service, attended by representatives of the Australian Government, the States and the Territories. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The maximum quantity for Stemetil tablets, as listed in the current edition of the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits is 50. 
Stemetil is one of several drugs which have a role in the treatment of patients suffering from Meniere's disease. However, Stemetil is more widely used in the prophylaxis and treatment of certain other conditions including nausea, vomiting, migraine and vertigo. It relieves symptoms but probably has no effect on the course or causes of Meniere's disease. 
The period of medication, at average dosage, provided by the present maximum quantity of 5P Stemetil tablets depends on the dosage level prescribed by the physician and varies according to th* particular condition being treated and its severity, its frequency, and the size, age, response and tolerance of the patient. 
In circumstances where the maximum quantity is insufficient for one month's treatment of a chronic condition at the prescribed dosage level, a doctor may, if he considers it to be in his patient's interest, apply to the Director of Health in his State for authority to prescribe a quantity of a benefit in excess of the listed maximum. Under this provision, a quarttity of a benefit item sufficient for a month's treatment and two repeats may be authorised. This quantity would then be sufficient for three months' treatment. 
I must stress, however, that action in this regard is a matter for the patient's doctor to initiate at his own discretion. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961- 1970 I present the twelfth annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
 I know that my Department has been looking at ways of effecting a closer inspection of arrivals from the Indonesian area since foot and mouth disease has been reported in Bali. I have no specific information about a particular kind of aircraft, but I will find out and let the honourable member know. 
It has been Labor Party policy for some time that the advertising of cigarettes in all the media should be discontinued, and the Australian Government has moved to ban it in media under Federal control - that is radio and television. It will be phased out over 3 years. At the last Federal policy conference of the Party a move for a similar ban on the advertising of alcohol was made and was defeated. There was no such move on any other kind of advertising. I have had no communications with  Mr Barry  Jones. He is entitled to express an opinion in this matter. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the guidelines that have been laid down by the National Therapeutic Goods Committee are sound; that is, in brief, that all advertising that is misleading ought to be discontinued and that consumer protection organisations, in conjunction with governments, ought to move to ensure that that happens. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There have been rumours of private aircraft entering Australia without formal clearances but no cases have been substantiated on- investigation. 
 There has been no previous plan to fund community health services from federal moneys. This was part of the Australian Labor Party's platform for some years. We are implementing the plan. It has received universal acclaim from the States, the Ministers and the departments concerned. Unfortunately, the States have been under increasing pressure to provide sufficient hospital beds, and they have been so preoccupied with trying to keep up the supply of crisis medical facilities that they have not had the courage, shall we say, to divert or they have not been willing to take the risk of diverting some of those funds into the preventive, rehabilitative and educational sides of medicine which this new program will implement. They are now welcoming this opportunity. I am sure that it will give them breathing space in their hospital bed building programs and that it will decrease the demand for hospital beds. It will help to keep people out of hospital and have them treated earlier, more effectively and with less disruption to their work and family ties. Wim regard to the second part of the honourable member's question, no suggestion has come to me from the Opposition or from any of the States as to ways in which the expenditure by my Department could be cut down to help inflation. I think that any reduction in this type of spending would only aggravate inflation, because it would cause more disruption of the work force due to illness. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been grossly misrepresented,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have in my hand an identical document, presumably, to the one which the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has just brought into the House and which, as he said, has printed on the top the crest, the title 'Minister for Health' and the address 'Parliament House, Canberra'. This letter did not come from my office. One copy was typed in my office. The other copies were reprinted outside Canberra. I also have in my hand an envelope that contained one of these copies. With your permission,  Sir, I  will table it. It bears the post mark 'Queanbeyan  -  12 November 1973 - paid - New South Wales'. 
The envelope and the letter it contained,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I point out that none of the printing cost, none of the stationery cost, and none of the postage cost came from any government department or from me personally. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) - Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)That is not a point of order. The point of order which was raised by the Minister for External Territories was whether, in view of standing order 76 and the explanation given by the Minister for Health, the right honourable gentleman is prepared to withdraw certain imputations. 

I have seen this pamphlet which contains a number of questions and I suppose this particular one is the only one with special relevance to Canberra hospitals. I think that when it speaks of up to 30 beds it may be taken as misleading if it is taken by people in the Australian Capital Territory to refer to Canberra's hospitals. We have at Woden Valley Hospital and Canberra Hospital 4 beds in the great majority of wards - a few may have six - and also single bed wards which are quite modern. In one or two areas in the obstetrics and geriatric departments there are up to 6 beds and there are a few temporary geriatric wards at Canberra Hospital with 10 beds. These will cease to exist when we complete stage 2 of the Woden Valley Hospital which should be early in April next year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The term 'doctors practising in Canberra' has been taken to exclude doctors employed whole-time by hospitals, by the Australian National University and by the Armed Services. It has also been taken to exclude locums and the staff of the Australian Department of Health except those employed as Community Medical Practitioners. 
It is difficult to arrive at precise figures for the number of doctors practicising in Canberra at any particular date. 
The numbers given in (1) and (2) below have been obtained by taking the numbers of doctors on the lists of visiting medical officers at the Canberra and Woden Hospitals current as at June 1972 and June 1973, with modifications based on the definition above and registration records. 
So far as it is practicable to ascertain, the answers to the particular questions asked by the right honourable member are as follows: 
174 
185 
5, one of whom retired and one of whom died. 
To my knowledge, there are no House of Representatives envelopes in my office, so I do not know the origin of that particular envelope. Within my knowledge, and authority, no official stationery, official postage or official printing facilities have been used in connection with this circular. I stand by the circular. 
There has been a record allocation of money this year for medical research through the National Health and Medical Research Council. That research has been directed to a number of new areas. We have not only followed the traditional pattern of funding the individual research projects presented to the Council for approval but also have indicated areas of special concern for public policy and have made special appeals for people to follow those lines of research. In relation to the particular case about which the honourable member has asked me a question, I point out that committees of experts look into the funding of all of these projects. The experts chosen have particular knowledge in the area of each project. I have not asked them for their reasons for arriving at such a decision, but I have no doubt that the doctors engaged in the research have been warned from time to time that the approval is only from year to year and that they will have to establish the viability of their project and whether it appears to offer a chance of benefit to the community. 
Huntington's Chorea is a disease which is totally inherited. I have no knowledge of any research anywhere in the world which offers any hope of changing the structure of the genes which produce inherited disease. I would think that it is highly unlikely that any research anywhere in the world offers any hope in the foreseeable future of changing the structure of the units of inheritance in humans or in any other species. I think therefore that it is reasonable to give greater priority to other projects which have a greater hope of success. I sympathise with the people who may be affected by this decision. It no doubt deprives them of a slender ray of hope which they have all had and cherished over the years but if that hope is a vain one I think it is a correct and responsible decision to divert the funds to something where there is greater hope of obtaining positive results. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 16 January last Cabinet authorised me to set in train arrangements for the establishment of a Hospitals and Health Services Commission. This Commission would study Australian health care needs and make recommendations to the Government on the allocation of capital and operating funds for the development and maintenance of health care delivery systems in Australia. The need to set up this commission is based on the recognition that a high standard of health care is one of the fundamental rights of every Australian, and that the Australian Government must accept its full responsibility in this regard. It is our belief that health is a family affair and a community affair and that communities must look beyond the person who is sick in bed or who is in need of medical attention. The need for health services begins at birth and continues throughout our lives. 
In the past the emphasis in the delivery of health care has been on the provision of curative rather than preventive health and rehabilitation services. As an initial step it is the aim of this Government to correct this imbalance by encouraging the rapid expansion and co-ordination of community health services. The Government has committed itself to a policy of promoting the regionalisation and modernisation of hospitals, linked with the development of community based health services and preventive health programs. It is interested in the full range of services, facilities and funding arrangements required to promote a high standard of health. 
To make an immediate start on the work envisaged for the Commission, an Interim Committee on Hospitals and Health Services was appointed within my department soon after this Government took office. This committee has already undertaken studies and made recommendations to the Government. As a result of those recommendations positive action has been taken to improve the health services of this country. It will be a feature of the Commission's examination of health needs for Australia to consult with the many authorities and organisations in Australia with deep interests in health care. And, of course, the Commission will have to rely heavily on the support that these bodies can give the Commission in ascertaining the existence and state of health services throughout the nation. As a practical example of this type of consultation and co-operation, the Commission is presently examining the hospital facilities position in Australia and is being actively assisted by such bodies as the Australian Medical Association, the Royal Australian Nursing Federation, the Australian College of Medical Administrators, the Australian Hospitals Association, the Australian Institute of Hospital Administrators, the Australian Department of Health, the Bureau of Census and Statistics and the health authorities in participating States. 
Earlier this year the Interim Committee invited by advertisements in the press submissions and comments from bodies and persons. Over 600 submissions have already 'been received. This is a firm basis for commencement of the Commission's work and I believe that many more submissions are yet to be lodged. The Interim Committee's first report, A Community Health Program for Australia", was tabled in the House on 30 May last. This report has been exceptionally well received by health administrators in this country. That program has been endorsed by the Government and a sum of SI Om was allocated in this year's Budget to meet capital and net operating costs of approved community health projects in 1973-74. The program should provide the required impetus for the establishment of much needed, but often overlooked, community based health services and should encourage communities and regions to examine their own needs and priorities and to express them to the relevant health authorities. 
To date assistance totalling $9m has already been approved under the community health program. This program is an indication of the enthusiasm and earnestness of the Interim Committee in tackling its responsibilities, and indicates the wholehearted approach and the concern for the health care of the Australian people that the Commission will bring to bear on its tasks. The appropriation of $10m appears in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) within the Department of Health appropriations. It is intended that the Department of Health will be implementing the program of approved projects and be expending the moneys on Australia's behalf. Following the passage of this legislation through the Australian Parliament I expect that payments to States and organisations can be speedily arranged and the full allocation of $10m spent by 30 June 1974. 
The Interim Committee has also been busy on other fronts. It recognised quickly that its own efforts were not enough but that it was necessary to encourage all administrations within the health services community to plan, research and evaluate their activities. The Government has provided funds of Sim a year and has given to the Interim Committee the overall co-ordinating role for an initial 3-year program for health services planning and research. Australia will continue to suffer from periodic shortages of various health professionals until a systematic approach is developed which anticipates requirements in the various skills to enable training facilities to adjust accordingly, which studies imbalances in the distribution of personnel and generally ensures that they are being both trained and used effectively. A special committee, which it is intended will report directly to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, is already starting to examine some of these problems. 
As a first step in ensuring a high quality regionalised and rationalised hospital system across the nation, the survey of the Australian hospital system will focus on areas in which there are shortfalls of facilities and equipment. In the even shorter term, there is a need to remedy acute hospital shortages which exist in a number of areas throughout Australia and the Government has already provided funds for an immediate start in developing additional hospital facilities in hospital deprived suburban areas of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Meanwhile, the Interim Committee has involved itself with plans for accreditation of health facilities and services, and it has recommended that funds be provided to the Australian Hospitals Standards Committee for a draft plan of a scheme for accreditation of Australian hospitals for consideration by the Commission. The Interim Committee is co-operating on this. Australian Hospitals Standards Committee with the Australian Hospital Association and the Australian Medical Association. 
This Bill establishes the Hospitals and Health Services Commission on a permanent and sound legal basis, enumerates its functions and gives it all the powers necessary to enable it to operate effectively. The Commission will consist of 3 full time Commissioners, including the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman,  and between 4 and 9 part time Commissioners. The period of appointment of full time Commissioners is up to 7 years, part time Commissioners up to 3 years. Its staff will be employed under the Public Service Act. The functions of the Commission in general terms are: 
to make recommendations to the Minister in relation to the provision of health services by the Department of Health; 
to ascertain the health care needs of the Australian community and to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of those needs; 
with the approval of the Minister, to make grants, including conditional grants, to government bodies, persons or organisations engaged in health care or research into health care; 
to investigate means of securing and, with the approval of the Minister, arrange for, representation of Australia or the Commission on governmental bodies involved in health care; 
to promote and take part in planning in relation to health services; 
to promote the provision of adequate health services; 
to review health care delivery systems and recommend changes to States, organisations or persons concerned with those systems; 
to undertake such other functions in relation to health care as the Minister approves. 
The Commission is given adequate powers to allow it to perform its functions, including the power to hold private and public inquiries, and to engage outside consultants. Honourable members will note that the Bill contains provisions to ensure the confidentiality of information on the affairs of individuals which may be acquired in the course of the Commission's operations. 
Establishment of the Commission is yet another step in the Government's progress toward a total approach to the nation's health care needs. The Interim Committee has already more than demonstrated its capacity for hard work and sound responsible judgement and recommended the means of tackling some of the inadequacies in our health care system. However, what has been achieved has also served to illustrate how much remains to be done. High quality health services do not just happen. Health care needs must be identified and services must be planned and financed in a co-ordinated manner. The establishment of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission by this Bill will ensure the continuation of the identification of those needs and provide the apparatus for planning and co-ordinating the resources necessary for their fulfilment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 25 October (Hansard, page 2779) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 25 October (Hansard, page 2779) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
I believe that the good book, from which the honourable member frequently quotes in this place, says that he who looks after a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his own heart, so I do not really hold much hope for improving the morals of people by making another method of birth control more freely available than in the past. In fact I see no possible impact on moral rectitude one way or the other. However, I would point out that vasectomy is not performed by responsible doctors in any State of this country unless they are satisfied that it is the best solution possible to the patient's problem, and it would be extremely unlikely that a young man who 
The report in the Bulletin' was based on my statement to this effect: Everywhere in the world there is a move towards increasing community responsibility to meet the costs of health care. This has applied in Australia under governments of all colours, as it has applied in Britain under governments of all colours. It has applied to the Soviet Union under a government of one colour - and indeed under governments of one colour in other parts of the world. It is a universal tendency. What I said was this: A doctor recently returned from Europe informs me that, in his estimate, in London and Moscow about 10 per cent of medical practice remains in private hands, that is to say, the doctors practise medicine without any government subsidy whatever. In Britain the doctor outside the national health service has no right to prescribe a subsidised medicine for his patient. The patient must meet the whole cost in Britain of any prescription written by a doctor outside the national health service. This does not apply in Australia. I therefore said that I cannot foresee the day in this country when private practice will fall to a proportion as low as 10 per cent, which is the estimate in Britain and the Soviet Union. 
Br EVERINGHAM - Yes, to the extent that what I am now saying puts an emphasis on the facts completely different from that which was placed on them in the report in the 'Bulletin'. I did not say that private practice would eventually fall to 10 per cent or 20 per cent. I said I could not see it falling as low as the 10 per cent that applies in those countries where there is no subsidy for private practice. The simple reason for my saying that is that Australia subsidises private practice. I said that the proportion of private practice may fall below 20 per cent, but that I could never see it falling as low as 10 per cent. 
Many criticisms have been made of the proposed national health insurance scheme. They have been made in a sweeping and unfounded fashion. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has said that he proved some of his points. But his proofs have been based on words and not on facts. Let us compare what the facts are about what will happen under a scheme such as that which is projected by simply looking at what is happening under such schemes and not at what some working party or some professional group suggests would happen. Much has been made of the fact that various professional organisations have opposed the national health insurance scheme. We on this side of the House have been informed that we do not know anything about that because we are not professional people. The only professional people who have spoken in this debate came from this side of the House. I submit that they have been as active in those discussions as any of the professional organisations opposed to the scheme. 
One of the major points that seems to exercise the minds of members of the Opposition is that the scheme will cost more. In their arguments, in their misguided zeal to prove this, they have drawn on examples from overseas - from the United Kingdom, Canada and various other places - but they have neglected to look in their own backyard. We already have in Queensland most of the features they condemn - a State which is run by the new National Country Party of Australia, the National Party of Australia or the Country Party, depending on what the current name may be. That Party came to power in that State many parliaments ago with a new platform and a new policy, one which it had until that time completely rejected and bitterly opposed. It had criticised any preceding Labor governments which had persisted with that policy since World War II. I refer to the policy of free hospital beds at the point of service to all who want them free - without charge and without means test. 
That policy is Australian Labor Party policy - that there should be available to those who want them hospital beds without charge at the point of service and without means test. Every State in Australia had this policy shortly after World War II when there was a Labor Government in Canberra. Shortly after the government in Canberra changed colour the States, with the exception of Queensland, one by one decided that it did not pay them, that it cost more. Whom did it cost more? Certainly not the patient. That public hospital system cost the State more per head of population and it still is costing Queensland more. However, it is costing Queensland less per public hospital bed. This is not altogether a good thing because no allowance is made to Queensland for the extra commitment by that State alone among the Australian States. It carries the burden that in other States is carried in part by public patients who pay for beds and in part by other patients who go into intermediate and private wards because they are not eligible for public care. 
In part the burden in the other States is borne by this Government subsidising the costs of medical and hospital fees for patients who voluntarily insure themselves. In all these ways the Queensland Government has shouldered an extra burden. But it was not that extra burden which caused the other States to terminate their system of so-called free hospitals. What ensured that they imposed a charge on public patients subject to means test was a decision of the Liberal-Country Party Government in Canberra which said: 'We will pay the States 6s a day for every bed, but if you can induce those patients in those beds to insure themselves voluntarily against the costs of medical care we will give the State 1 a day'. So Queensland was faced with a situation where less than half the population voluntarily insured themselves for hospital and medical care. Most of the occupants of public beds were not insured. Most of the public beds in Queensland received 6s a day from the Commonwealth while the great majority of beds in the other States were receiving 1 a day. This was an extra burden imposed on Queensland as a penalty for its political decision to maintain a free hospital system. The Government changed, and the Country Party-Liberal Party Government in Queensland that has been there ever since has not considered it to be politically expedient, or has not considered it good policy, or has not considered it to be good for patients to terminate that free hospital system. Honourable members may take their pick about the motive, but the fact is that at election after election the Government has promised that it will not terminate Queensland's free hospital system. 
Why do honourable members opposite not make some comparisons with Queensland? Why do they have to go to Canada or the United Kingdom? Why do they have to go to the blanket percentages for the whole of Australia "every time they try to analyse what all these things will cost? One of the speakers on the Opposition side pointed out that it would cost a lot more because at one hospital in his electorate it would require 3 surgeons under the Hayden scheme to replace the one surgeon at that hospital. This is an example of the sort of logic I am talking about which is worked out on words and not on facts. There has been no great influx of surgeons into Queensland to take up paid hospital appointments. It may attract them a little to be told that if they go to Queensland they will not have to do honorary work, that if they are appointed to the local hospital as a consultant they will be paid for their work there by a part time salary or by a sessional payment. It may attract some there. 
No doubt this was one of the factors that induced Queensland to adopt or retain the scheme. The medical school was small in those days when compared with medical schools in the southern States. That can no longer be used as an argument. People are not flocking to Queensland to take these appointments. But they get the operations done. I have not heard of the long queues in Queensland that there are in Melbourne and 
Sydney. I know there is a shortage of beds in Brisbane. I know that there is an urgent need for more hospital beds, particularly in the deprived western suburbs, but exactly the same applies to Sydney and Melbourne. In fact, when I moved from a private general practice in the suburbs of Sydney - in those same western suburbs - to Rockhampton, one of the factors that persuaded me was that I knew, having been a junior resident in the hospital there, that when I got to Rockhampton I could always get a bed in any of 4 hospitals - private, public or intermediate. I could always get a bed except at the height of an epidemic when I might have to wait 24 hours. 
In Sydney the story was very different, and it is no better today under the system of charging for public beds. The doctor rings up. Perhaps he spends half an hour on the telephone before he gets a bed. When I was there I very often spent that amount of time trying to get a bed for an urgent case such as an acute appendix. I ended up telephoning an officer who was on duty 24 hours a day for the State of New South Wales to find beds for doctors who could not find them. He kept a list of where .the empty beds were all around Sydney. I think that 2 out of 3 times the patient was sent to Prince Henry Hospital, as it was then, or to the Royal North Shore Hospital, about an hour's trip by ambulance from where I was. As a rule, none of the adjoining hospitals had empty beds. The position is still the same today. I heard recently of one patient having to go to Gosford from Sydney to have an acute appendix operation. This argument that it will cost more because there will have to be more surgeons ignores the plain fact that it does not require more surgeons in the Queensland system, and there is no earthly reason why that should be the case in any other State. The surgeons in Queensland are on call for just as long for their public patients as for their private patients, and so they will be under the proposed scheme. 
People do not go from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. clocking on and off and not answering their telephones just because they are receiving salaries or sessional payments. For many years people in the Public Service, like quarantine officers, have had to give a 24-hour service. They have had to get up in the middle of night to go on ships. They are on salaries: they do not get fees for service. Yet we are asked to believe that immediately the method of pay ment of a doctor is changed and one does not rely on his human charity to work for nothing for those who are deprived financially, he loses his dedication and becomes cynical and mercenary. My experience is the reverse - that the man who is cynical and mercenary is the man who is crying the loudest - in the Society of General Practitioners in particular - about his civil rights to charge what he likes and saying that medical care is not a right, it is a luxury, and that those who want it must pay for it. That is the sort of talk we are getting from people who are championing fee for service at all costs and saying that at the moment a doctor is paid a salary he becomes cynical and mercenary, that he does not give value for money, that he is not devoted to his patients, and that that valuable personal relationship is lost. 
Every one of those doctors has worked as a full time salaried doctor. Every one of them, if he is in private practice now, has worked as a resident salaried doctor in a hospital. Yet he is asking people to believe that he was cynical and mercenary then and he suddenly became dedicated and devoted when he went into the market place to sell his goods at the price that he insists on having the untrammelled right to set - without any kind of arbitration or judgment being made on the prices he charges. He demands the definite right to charge what he wants, and he also wants 2 bob the other way. He wants the system to continue whereby two-thirds of his income is now met by the taxpayers - by the general public purse. 
Already the taxpayers pay more than $2 in every $3 earned by doctors in the private sector of medicine, and I am not talking about the public sessional payment positions or salaried positions that doctors may hold - and, incidentally, there has been a large increase in the percentage of doctors on salaries over the last 30 years, the ratio having increased from one in 7 to 2 in 5. The public sector of medicine is growing whatever government is in power and whatever system is operating. That has happened under the system which we are told by the Opposition is basically sound. The taxpayer's contribution to the private sector of medicine has grown to $2 in every S3 expended in that section, and it. will continue to grow. We have been told by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that the cost of our scheme will escalate faster than the growth in taxed income, and that means also faster than the health insurance levy, and that therefore the 1.3S per cent levy will have to rise or more will have to be contributed out of general tax revenue. 
Or EVERINGHAM - The honourable member for Hotham suggests that it will be the latter. I think he may well be right because that is exactly what has been happening to the voluntary scheme; more and more has been contributed out of general tax revenue, not by increasing premiums. I think that the amount paid out of the special fund last year was $40m, and it is growing very rapidly. This special fund is used to make up to the private insurance funds the money lost in the bad risk cases, and there are more and more of them. They include people with pre-existing ailments, people with chronic ailments, people who need a long stay in hospitals and so on, and the funds are getting very efficient at ferreting them out. One of the things that the funds do is to send a questionnaire to the patient for his authority to get medical details from the doctor, and the doctor is asked such questions as: 'Has this patient ever had high blood pressure?' This question may be asked on the occasion of a single attendance. 
Usually the funds wait until a bit of a bill is run up, but I have had the experience of being asked to fill in one of these forms after seeing a patient on a single attendance at which that patient suffered from a heart condition. I was asked had she previously had high blood pressure. Looking back over the records of my predecessor I found that the patient had given to my predecessor the history that 12 months previously a certain doctor had treated her for high blood pressure. I duly recorded this, and her claim was turned down, not because I was treating her for high blood pressure but because the particular heart condition - cardiac asthma - is recognised medically to be associated with high blood pressure and because of this, actuarially speaking, the patient was a bad risk. She could not be covered because she was more than ordinarily prone to this disease, and so, of course, a claim was made on the special fund. 
The Opposition's proposals for an alternative scheme sound very fine, and I will deal with some Of them briefly. One proposition is that health care is a right that is readily available. It is all very well to have guidelines on these things and to have working parties working on them. But we had working parties working on them for many years while we were in Opposition, without the benefit of the expert assistance that is available to Ministers. That assistance was available to honourable members opposite when they were on this side of the House. They had plenty of time to have working parties on these things, as we did, and they could have come up with the solutions much more quickly than we did. We believe that we have met the first point of their plan - that health care is a right that is readily available. We have put forward a scheme whereby that can happen. The Opposition has not spelt out what it is. It has said that it is a guideline. It is good to have guidelines and to be able to agree on them, but let us get down to tin tacks, and that is what we aim to do. 
Secondly, the Opposition wants a review of the present scheme, but that has already been done very thoroughly. Thirdly, it wants integration of the pensioner and subsidised health benefit schemes with our insurance scheme. The Opposition is just a little late on that because we have put that up, and this is part of our proposals which the honourable member for Hotham (Mr Chipp) and others have acclaimed as one of the good features of our scheme - more than I can say, unfortunately, for the Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association who informed us at a meeting of the Caucus Welfare Committee in Canberra some months ago that he could see no good thing in the scheme and there was no point in discussing it. 
The Government's national health insurance scheme. He said he could see no good points in the report of the Deeble committee, even though that proposal was contained in the report and it was AMA policy. He was a very difficult man with whom to discuss any one point to which he objected. He said: 'I object to the lot'. A number of us spent much time in trying to get him to be specific. The Opposition's fourth proposal is that the scheme must be available to the maximum number of people. No scheme that the Opposition or any of its professional advisers or objecting professional groups have come up with has ever suggested a way to cover the maximum number of people. We have. There is one way to cover the maximum number of people and that is a universal scheme, and nobody except this Government has put it up. 
Again, the Opposition brings in Britain. May I remind honourable members opposite that Queensland is much closer, and everybody is in the scheme there. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)The Minister's time has expired. 
The matter of the modification of the milk for school children scheme was considered by a meeting of State Ministers with me in September. This meeting was attended by the Ministers for Health, Education and Primary Industry. They were invited to submit proposals for specific areas of need which would warrant the continuation of assistance under this scheme. I have had replies from 3 States and these were considered by Cabinet yesterday. The decision of Cabinet was that there was no specific need demonstrated. I have taken steps today to send by special delivery notices to all Ministers concerned that until some more specific and definite area of need can be demonstrated no funds will be available in the next school year. 
There has been considerable inconsistency in the attitude of the Opposition parties to the use of salaried medical officers. In Queensland of course, as the House will be aware, salaried medical officers in hospitals who provide out-patient services as well as in-patient services have been approved in principle by both of the Parties that are in Opposition in this House. Until they approved the principle of making these doctors available to all comers without means tests and free of charge at the point of service they were unable to attain the treasury bench in Queensland. Ever since they have asserted this principle and have promised at every election that they would not reverse it, they have maintained power, albeit on a minority vote, in the Queensland Parliament. When the principle of using salaried doctors for community health centres was raised with the States following the setting up of the Interim Committee on Hospitals and Health Services, the initial reaction of the Minister for Health in Queensland was of course that the Queensland Government had a different ideology and philosophy in these matters from the Federal Parliament and would not be interested in the use of salaried doctors in these centres. I understand that in the event, having looked at the availability of doctors for some of the areas with a health care scarcity, for which the scheme gives preference, the Queensland Government is reconsidering this attitude. 
As far as the advisers of governments go, in Victoria for example the advisers from the Hospitals and Charities Commission have agreed quite amicably with the Sax Commission that it is necessary to have salaried doctors in some areas where the community requests this, where it is difficult for private doctors to maintain a practice and where the local doctors themselves have asked for the appointments to be made on a salaried basis. This occurred in 3 centres in Victoria. I feel sure that this type of practical experience will teach members of the Opposition that there is a place for salaried service in community centres. In fact, when the requirements arose this year for members of this Parliament to produce medical evidence of their fitness for the superannuation scheme, the first representations I had requesting me to make appointments at the centre at Melba, which has salaried doctors, came from members of the Opposition, and they expressed themselves as well content with the service that they received from those doctors. 
The criteria were mentioned in my previous answer. We require specific evidence of need. It is not true that we deny anything to needy children, but it is true that needy children have not been identified. In the expert information that has come before me there have been at least 2 studies which indicate that the consumption of milk by children of school age has not increased under the school milk scheme; in fact, there has been overall a slight reduction which may not be statistically significant. The average consumption of milk has not increased. Secondly, there are at least 2 studies which indicate that the intake of milk is greater on average among low income families than among high income families. 
I do not say there is anything wrong with that. The interjection suggested that my stand is that the people on lower incomes should drink less milk. On the contrary, I think that the parents show great wisdom in getting milk as a readily available component of diet that is given to their children rather than spending on something else which may be of very much less value nutritionally. When the school milk scheme was introduced there was evidence that among the Australian community there were significant percentages of children with deficiencies in protein and calcium intake. The evidence today is that this is not so except in those families who are literally starving, who are so poverty stricken that they cannot get even adequate calories. 
In view of the sorts of deprivation that are evident in the more deprived families in the community, we believe that the $12m spent on the scheme last year, which would increase every year, is far better spent on the sorts of benefits that have been brought forward under our social security policy to help low income families and to enable them to choose their priorities for nutrition. The evidence is that where this decision is taken out of the hands of the parents, and where the child is given no option except to take free school milk, in many cases the child refuses it. This is particularly the case among one group that some interjectors have mentioned - Aboriginals. Large percentages of Aboriginal children are constitutionally affected by cows' milk; it literally makes them sick, and this is not an appropriate remedy in all cases. We are looking at the problem of Aboriginal nutrition, as we are looking at problems of nutrition of all deprived people in Australia. We believe that there are more appropriate solutions. However, if specific areas of need are brought to our notice by the States they will be attended to, as has been indicated in the Budget proposals on the school milk scheme. 
in reply- I thank the participants in the debate. I am grateful that the Opposition secs that the principle of this Bill - the broad principle at any rate - is a good one. lt seems to be a principle that the Opposition, when in government, resisted when we suggested in the past that the national Government should have its own hospitals commission. We welcome this step forward. With regard to the specific criticisms and questions that have been raised, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  was dismayed because we had not given to State Ministers due notice of this Bill before it had been presented to the House. In the time I have been a Minister I have never known any State government to ask me my views on any State Bill that had any bearing on my portfolio. It seems a quite extraordinary suggestion that the States should be given more consideration than members of this Parliament in having brought to their notice the sorts of Bills which we bring forward. Certainly, some of these Bills do have an unusual impact on what the States do. But in the case of this Bill the issues with the States have been well canvassed. The members of tha interim committee will become members of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. They have had extensive consultations with hospital commissions in the States. 
Yes, in the process of actually working out what the grants would be under this Budget. So I feel that there could have been very few illusions in the mind of any State Minister who took an interest in those discussions as to what was intended in the Bill and what was intended in the decisions made for the granting of moneys to the various projects in the States. The fact that the amendments mentioned tonight - those that have been moved and those that have been discussed with me but not moved - were never mentioned in relation to the Bill which led to the setting up of the Social Welfare Commission suggests to me that this is a rather late, panic reaction in the hope that something will be done by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. However, nobody seemed very much afraid that it would happen with the Social Welfare Com mission although, essentially, the functions of the 2 Commissions will run parallel. So I think that if any of the misgivings expressed in this regard apply to this Bill they should have applied all the more to the Bill brought down by my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
With regard to the matter which the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  raised about the tabling of reports, it is true that this Bill does not make it mandatory for the Minister to table all reports of the Commission. However, as a matter of fact I shall be tabling a report which I did not request but which the Commission is quite entitled to produce of its own initiative. It is a report on medical rehabilitation services and it will be presented to the House this week. So, in practice, the suggestion made by the honourable member will be followed. He quoted from the Social Welfare Commission Bill which states: 
. the Minister shall, as soon as practicable, cause that report to be laid before each House of the Parliament. 
On this matter I refer briefly to the Hansard record. At page 1 239 it states: 
An important provision in the Bill is that which requires all reports of the Commission to be tabled in each House of the Parliament. Such reports will include not only those requested by the Minister but also those initiated by the Commission. 
This is the part I want to emphasise: 
This is a marked deviation but an improvement on past practices. 
I point out that there is no precedent other than the one quoted by the honourable member for Isaacs. I am not against the principle. I think it is an excellent one. I can see no reason why I should not follow it out, even though it is not embodied in the wording of the Bill. 
The honourable member may also care to have that brought forward as an amendment in the Senate stages. Now that the honourable member has given notice of it we will have due time in which to consider it. Quite possibly it will be acceptable in the other place. There is no need to specify that the Commission has power to bring out reports. That is included in its genera] terms of reference. I assure the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  that the Commission is aware of the needs of country areas and that regionalisation will decentralise considerably these decisions which at the present time are made all loo often in State capitals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report from the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled 'A Medical Rehabilitation Program for Australia'. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report entitled 'Recommendations for an Australian Response to Drug Use Problems'. 
It is true that the great bulk of pharmaceutical costs in Australia are paid from public moneys. In the last financial year this amounted to approximately $180m from Federal funds. I personally have not received a carnation. I am not able to speak for other doctors in Queensland or in other States. My Department has no control over the promotional advertising activities of drug companies except on radio and television. We have made it clear to ICI and every other drug company in the past that we are opposed to this sort of marketing gimmickry and that new products should be promoted solely on scientific and clinical data. 
I  move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
16761/73 -  R  - [169] 
One of the amendments recommended by the Senate refers to the tabling of reports when the tabling is recommended to the Minister by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. The other amendment states that before giving his approval to the Commission to make grants to an organisation or persons in a State, other than an authority or instrumentality of Australia, the Minister shall request the appropriate Minister of that State to consult with him concerning the matter and, if that Minister does so consult with him, have regard to the view expressed by that Minister. 
There is no disputing the fact that milk is one of the major valuable elements in the Australian diet. As I pointed out in my earlier answers, there has been no demonstration that the consumption of milk rose with the operation of the school milk scheme; on the contrary, Australia's average consumption per head of population actually fell slightly during the period of the operation of that scheme. The nutritional standards in Australia are among the highest in the world. We are interested in maintaining and extending those standards, and it is in the light of that intention that we have invited the States to make further submissions regarding areas of particular need for milk as milk. But we have decided, on the advice of experts in the National Health and Medical Research Council and in the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine in Sydney who have actually sponsored surveys in this area using school medical services and other sources, that it would be more productive to use the money which has been dissipated in this area to upgrade the services available to families that are in fact suffering from malnutrition. 
Despite the school milk scheme and despite all the other schemes which have been adopted on an across the board basis, we believe that the proper way to assist families that are nutritionally in trouble is through the Australian Assistance Plan which will discriminate in favour of those families that need help and give them the sort of help they need. Very often school miik has been left to get warm, unplatable and unattractive to the pupils, many of whom reject it. Many teachers have complained about the system being ineffective in getting milk to those students who need it most. One of the main disadvantages of milk in this regard is that very often the pupils who most need protein and calcium in their diet, for which milk is the best vehicle, are unable or unwilling to take milk. This is particularly the case- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Miss Durham had a certificate from her doctor in London recommending that she should not be vaccinated. It is not known what advice she was given by her doctor regarding quarantine in Australia. 
There is a danger of unvaccinated persons travelling through infected countries spreading disease after arrival in Australia. 
The carrying airline company. 
No. 
It did not differ in any way from that accorded to other persons entering Australia unvaccinated after travelling through infected countries'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. My attention has been drawn to the use in Australia of vibrator machines similar to those which are imported. It should be noted, however, that the importation of machines which use electric impulses to cause muscular contractions and claim to reduce the user's weight is not automatically prohibited. On the advice of my Department, the Department of Customs and Excise permits importation under the following conditions: 
the articles must in every, case be certified by a medical practitioner to be for use in his own practice; and 
if imported by a merchant, the latter must produce in addition to the aforementioned certificate, a written order from the medical practitioner and must satisfy the Collector of Customs that he had this order before he ordered the goods from abroad. 
there is no objection to literature relating to the goods. 
Machines similar to those being imported are manufactured in Australia. 
and (4) There are no standards set by the Health authorities either in the States or in the Territories. 
The Medical Standards Committee of the Standards Association of Australia will shortly meet to inquire into electrical standards for goods of this kind and my Department is represented on this Committee. The findings of this Committee will be incorporated into electrical standards for these goods to be prepared under the Therapeutic Goods Act, 1966. Standards under this Act apply to goods that are imported, supplied as pharmaceutical benefits, supplied to the Australian Government, an authority of the Government or a Federal Territory, or that are the subject of interstate trade. To achieve Australia-wide uniformity it is necessary for each State to incorporate these standards into its legislation. The avenue for Federal/State co-operation in adopting uniform standards is the National Therapeutic Goods Committee on which are represented the Federal and State health authorities. Although the Therapeutic Goods Act will provide a means of controlling electrical standards, its scope cannot extend to control of the distribution of these goods or the therapeutic uses to which they are put. The regulation of these latter aspects is already established for imported goods as stated in my reply to Part (1) ofthe Question but there has not been parallel legislation passed in the Territories and the States in respect of items manufactured in Australia. Aware of this anomalous situation the National Therapeutic Goods Committee currently has under consideration a proposal that the Australian Government and each State Government enact or modify legislation so that controls over the distribution and use of locally manufactured machines will be complementary to those already applying to imported machines. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are 150 persons employed in positions (including positions in the Armed Forces) where their dental qualifications have relevance to their duties. The distribution of these is shown below, together with designations and summaries of duties for the positions they occupy. In addition there are 7 unfilled positions for qualified dentists and these are marked with an asterisk. 
<para pgwide="yes">Information received by my Department from the Public Service Board indicates that there is one permanent officer who is a qualified dentist serving in a position where this qualification does not relate to his duties. He is an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs and his designation is Ministerial Officer, Grade 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Site works have commenced for the construciton of the interim health centre at Canberra's Civic Centre. 
11 February 1974. 
Yes. 
General practitioners in the area have been informed that positions would be available for salaried practitioners, and have been invited to have discussions on possible employment with A.C.T. Health Services officers. In addition, the positions have been advertised in the local press and the Medical Journal of Australia. The terms and conditions of service are identical to those applicable to the Melba Centre (see my reply to Senate Question No. S13, Hansard, pages 2363-2364). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Italian Government has no restriction on the erucic acid content of edible oils at present. A Ministerial Decree of December 1972 limits the content of erucic acid in edible fats to 10 per cent; however, this Decree has been suspended twice and is not expected to come into operation until 31 January 1974. 
I am also informed that the French Government has no restriction on erucic acid content and has not deemed it necessary to prohibit for human consumption the sale of rapeseed oil, whether pure or mixed with other oil varieties. The nature of the oil and its origin, and the relative importance of the various ingredients must be indicated on the product label. The absence of health regulations pertaining to erucic acid can be attributed to the inconclusiveness of the tests performed in France to date, and also the oilseed shortage which prevails in that country. However, the Government has indicated that in future the sale of rapeseed oil may be regulated in the light of further scientific evidence. 
To date no reply has been received to inquiries with the West German authorities). The information will be forwarded to the honourable member when it is available. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council, through its Food Standards Committee, has this matter under active consideration at the present time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I understand that the Department of Science is to purchase a machine with which tests of the kind needed for such a survey could be conducted. This would, of course, come within the area of responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Science. 
I should point out that it is possible that high nicotine content in cigarettes could have the effect, while increasing nicotine dependence, of making smokers satisfied with less tobacco and thus lowering the intake of tar. 
Anti-Smoking Drug 'Non-Fumer' (Question No. 1161) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. My Department  has  been unable to locate any reports on the drug in the scientific literature of the world. Unpublished material supplied by  Dr Hopcroft  fails to satisfy the normal requirements of my Department with respect to quality, safety or efficacy. Furthermore the theoretical basis for including one of its components is not supported in the literature cited.  Dr Hopcroft  has been asked to provide further information. 
None, pending full evaluation of the drug. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission is examining the operation of ambulance services in Australia with a view to recommending to the Government ways and means whereby such services may be assisted. Discussions will be held with the States as part of the Interim Committee's examination of the provision of transport to and from health services. Particular note is being taken of health, transport needs in remote regions. 
I consider that in special circumstances there are good reasons for Australian Government support for these sorts of services. I would prefer however, to await the report and recommendations from the Interim Committee relating to the provision and support of ambulance services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
Yes. 
(a) and (b) This information is not available to my Department. (2) (c) A survey conducted by my Department indicates a doctor-population ratio of 1:721 as at 30 June 1972. 
This information is not available to my Department. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has estimated that in the final year of medical courses at Australian universities in 1972, out of a total of over 900 students, there were no African students and 67 students whose home residence was in Asia. 
This information is not available to my Department. 
Medical courses at Australian universities are designed to train future medical practitioners in clinical techniques appropriate to an Australian environment. As a consequence many features of these courses may not be considered appropriate for Asian medical students who intend to return home after graduation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The research workers concerned make it quite clear that despite their laboratory findings, a casual relationship between multiple sclerosis and smallpox vaccination cannot be proven without further research. Until such definite proof isi obtained it would be premature to recommend banning a vaccination procedure of such proven value. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no arrangements for the Department of Health is supply oxygen to pensioners) in their homes, or to supply the equipment required to administer it. 
A working party has been established in my Department to investigate the provision of most medical and surgical aids and appliances, and to make recommendations on how Australian Government assistance might best be given. The working party has made recommendations' on improvements to the Government's hearing aid schemes and on the supply of artificial limbs to those who need them, and the Government has announced its intention to implement these proposals. 
The possibility of providing several other types of medical and surgical aids is currently under investigation by the working party, including the supply of oxygen and related equipment in the patient's home. Any arrangements' made for the provision of oxygen would, of course, include patients residing in other than the large metropolitan areas. 
Australian Capital Territory: Homes for  the  Aged  (Question No. 1499) 
I have seen Press reports quoting  Dr Wylie  Gibbs who is the spokesman for drug manufacturers in Australia. 
He is a former Liberal member of Parliament. Whether the oil shortage can be blamed for the lack of supply of drugs is not under the control of government instrumentalities to any degree. If the drug firms like to say that there is a shortage of drugs due to the oil problem they can continue to say it. It is not a very plausible excuse, because surely if any priorities are given or any restrictions are set down by governments on the supply of oil the last one to be restricted would be a drug manufacturer; he would have top priority. With regard to the rest of the honourable member's question, he can be assured that there is virtually no drug shortage in Australia and that in respect of those few odd drugs that may be temporarily in short supply adequate substitutes are available on the market. 
No official warning of the outbreak was given. Certainly no knowledge of a warning reached me. No warning was given by my Department of this outbreak. There may have been some people who believed that they could predict the outbreak. The second part of the honourable senator's question is concerned with what department was responsible for not giving a public warning of the outbreak. Obviously an outbreak cannot be firmly predicted. Some evidence is coming forward now to suggest that the outbreak is associated with higher rainfall in northern parts of Australia which causes the southern movement of birds which sometimes settle in great numbers in areas such as the Murray Valley where there are insects which convey this disease. Infectious diseases, unless they are quarantinable diseases - this is not - are not the responsibility of the Australian Department of Health. I will ascertain more details as to what steps, if any, the States have taken in relation to prior notification and advise the honourable member of them. 
The final part of the honourable member's question is concerned with whether there is sufficient research into this disease. Again, this is primarily a matter for the States concerned, and principally Victoria. The Australian Government has provided assistance to Victoria to help in the investigation of the current outbreak. A request was made by the Victorian Minister of Health,  Mr Scanlan,  and I agreed to make available the services of Professor David Lee, of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, who is an authority on the transmission of this disease and who participated in research into an outbreak in 1951. A medicad entomologist from the School,  Mr Richard  Russell, is assisting him. The John Curtin School of Medical Research of the Australian National University also is participating. A team headed by  Dr Ian  Marshall, a senior fellow in the Department of Microbiology, has gone to the Murray Valley to carry out virus isolation and anti-body studies on water fowl and mosquitoes. Also there has been assistance from Queensland - from the Queensland Institute of Medical Research. Its Director,  Dr Doherty,  is a leading authority on arbor viruses; that is, viruses carried by insects and other arthropods. There have been recent Press reports that the attack is waning. I do not know whether this is correct. But I believe that there has been adequate response with the facilities available to us to investigate this disaster. If a need for further research is felt by the authorities, I am sure they will tell us about it. 
COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES  Mr BENNETT-  My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that more than Sim has been allocated to Western Australia by the Australian Government for community and mental health services? What are the possibilities of increases in such allocations? Will these facilities alleviate the situation in which people are sued for recovery of medical fees? Will they remove the fear of bailiff seizure of goods from those unable to pay medical fees on genuine hardship grounds, such as has happened in my electorate? 
Answering the last part of the question first, obviously if no charge is made the patient need not fear the bailiff. At some of these centres no charge is made. It depends on the funding arrangements entered into by the State and the local community health committee. Some of these centres have salaried doctors and in those cases normally no charge is made. The first question was whether further funds can be made available through the community health program. Yes, they can be. The program approved by the Government is for $7. 5m in each of 2 financial years - the current financial year and the coming financial year. So there is no reason why a program at least as large as the one that has been announced should not be forthcoming in the next financial year. The program for the present financial year provides about $590,000 for Western Australia out of a national grant totalling $7.5m. The nature of these mental health services depends upon projects proposed by the States. There is a wide range of them in the different States. Some have concentrated on hostels for the mentally handicapped, some on alcoholism services- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The Australian Government is aware of the need for provision of high quality and readily accessible health care services and facilities in all areas of Australia. Accordingly, the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission is examining the delivery of health care in rural and remote areas, and will be making recommendations to the Government on ways and means whereby the States may be assisted in providing adequate health care services and facilities in rural areas. 
I understand that the doctor referred to in the honourable member's question has since left Karratha and that a salaried medical officer for that town has been appointed by the North-West Medical Service of the Western Australian Medical Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of a reported statement by  Dr R.  M. Howlett, officcr-in-charge of the genetics laboratory at Royal Perth Hospital which calls for the establishment of a genetics centre in Perth as a significant step in reducing the number of child deaths from genetic disease. I am also aware of further press statements on this matter which express views differing from those espoused by  Dr Hewlett. 
I understand that in all State capital cities there are establishments at which work in the field of human genetics is undertaken. These are generally connected with major teaching hospitals. 
and &lt;4) There does not appear to be uniformity of medical opinion in this area. Some authorities consider that, provided diagnostic facilities arc available, activities such as genetic counselling can more appropriately be undertaken by specialist physicians, obstetricians or pediatricians. At present, therefore, there are no plans to support the establishment of self-contained centres. I would, however, be pleased lo refer specific proposals of this nature to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
Karratha Medical Service (Question No. 50S) 
The report referred to by the honourable member has not come to my attention. I have no doubt that the doctors and the authorities on the spot will adopt the usual procedures in these cases, and that is to see that sera are flown to Melbourne and the other appropriate laboratories for identification of the virus concerned. It is very rare that this can be done in under a fortnight, because it is not sufficient to find antibodies in the blood; we have to find a rising concentration of antibodies over a period of usually 2 weeks. Nevertheless, if this is the virus concerned I have no doubt that steps will be taken to reduce the insect infestation which usually leads to this disease and which is quite likely to have occurred following the unprecedented wet season in much of Australia, and seems to be related to the migration of birds which carry this virus away from the wet areas. The virus is then transmitted to humans by certain kinds of mosquitoes. If these mosquitoes are prevalant in the area I am sure steps will be taken to reduce the infestation. 
I have seen something of that type of advertisement for what is claimed to be the biggest selling nose drops or decongestant drops in Australia. This advertisement is addressed to retail chemists, encouraging them to foster the sale of this particular preparation. I am not aware that the company is foreign owned but, to my knowledge, a very expensive promotion is being put forward by the multi-national firms in contrast to the rather modest promotion programs put forward by smaller Australian firms in the drug industry. I am concerned about this matter. My Department has taken very effective steps to contain the cost to the Australian taxpayer of bulk prescription drugs. When a small Australian producer is offering a competitive tender for listing on the pharmaceutical benefits list the Department can say to the big multi-national firm: 'We will not list your drug unless you give us a price comparable to that of the Australian producer'. Some firms have been very disturbed about this and have accused the Government of unfair practices, but of course the Government is just following their advice. It is using the principles of free enterprise and free competition to which they were not so exposed under our predecessors who were wont to ring up gentlemen in the Department of Health and say: 'Please lay off our friends.' 
I notice that none of the interjections I hear are coming from former Ministers for Health. The point is that this particular item to which attention has been drawn by the honourable member for Hunter is not of major concern to the taxpayer. The Government does not have control over it because it is not a pharmaceutical benefits listing. There is no doubt that, in many areas of retailing - not only in pharmacy - this sort of high pressure incentive is put on retailers to buy something which will give them a high mark-up and create a consumer demand out of all proportion to the value of the product. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No.  The  field work for the survey was completed on 17 October 1973. Analysis of the data has not been completed. 
The date on which the results of the survey will be available is not known at present. 
No preliminary findings are available as yet. 
No. In July 1972 the Victorian Government was requested by the then Minister for Health to participate in the survey. Participation was not accepted by the Victorian authorities who considered it to be part of the National Educational Campaign Against Smoking. Victoria had previously declined to participate in this campaign. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on hospitals in Australia as prepared by Hospitals and Health Services Commission dated 10 April 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware of the acute years-long shortage of nursing home facilities and I hope to table this week the first part of a report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission on Hospitals in Australia which will propose a planned commitment of national funds and facilities to relieve this problem. 
The matters of medical, hospital and nursing home benefits are under consideration by the Minister for Social Security to whom this question should therefore properly be directed. The honourable member will be aware that the approval of the Senate is awaited to a Bill which would greatly increase some of these benefits if the Senate is disposed to reverse an earlier unfavourable decision. 
Yes, I became aware earlier this year that there had been some local criticism of quarantine procedures at Port Fremantle. Naturally, I am concerned that we should maintain proper standards of quarantine. At my direction 3 senior officers of my Department investigated these allegations. They were the First Assistant Director- 
General of Quarantine, a veterinary surgeon of many years private and governmental experience; the Director of the New South Wales Division, who is a medical officer with considerable practical quarantine experience; and the Assistant Director-General of the Department's policy secretariat. They went to Western Australia in mid-March. At the conclusion of their inquiry, during which they interviewed every person considered to be in a position to throw light on the allegations that had been made, they reported that there was no evidence to suggest that there had been a break-down in procedure.. In particular, they found that quarantine security had not in any way been impaired by the decision of the Director of Health in Western Australia - a medical officer with long experience in quarantine work  -  to reserve to himself the authority to order the fumigation of vessels. 
More recently there was criticism in the media that the grain ship 'Lorana' was not fumigated with cyanide gas while it was at Fremantle in June. The Western Australian Director has been instructed to issue a Press statement setting out the full facts of the case but for the benefit of honourable members I add that I am satisfied that proper quarantine measures were taken in regard to 'Lorana'. The ship was thoroughly inspected on its arrival by a quarantine medical officer and a qualified quarantine inspector. Subsequently it was visited daily by a quarantine inspector who specifically searched for signs of rat infestation. The holds were fumigated with methyl bromide to kill insects that were found there on the initial quarantine inspection. Baits were successfully laid on the forepeak and mid section of the ship, the only areas which showed any evidence of recent rat infestation. The procedures were thorough and entirely in accord with recommendations made as late as 1972 by the World Health Organisation and were consistent with our high standards of quarantine security. I will make available to the honourable member a copy of the full Press statement if he wishes. 
Some States did actually provide milk for schools in areas of need before the national scheme was introduced in the 1940s. About that time there was evidence of widespread areas or at least pockets of malnutrition amongst Australian children. That evidence no longer applies and Australia is not unique in having discontinued or phased out this type of scheme. The same sort of decision was made earlier in New Zealand and Great Britain. At the time of the introduction of the Budget last year it was foreshadowed that this type of scheme would be discontinued and the States were asked to present well before the end of the last school year their submissions as to what schools, what classes or other groups they felt particularly needed continuance of this scheme at the Federal level. 1 held a conference to which not only Health Ministers but also Agriculture Ministers were invited, and the net effect was that they asked for retention of the scheme for certain broad categories of children - particularly children at the pre-school, infant, or early primary school levels, at schools for the handicapped and in areas where there are many Aboriginal children. The retention of the scheme for these areas was considered by Cabinet, but the proposal was not considered to be sufficiently discriminating to meet the areas of need. It was felt that more oppropriate funding could be made to families who were in special need through our social security program and other measures which the Government was undertaking. The States were informed accordingly. 
For as long as 6 months later, I have been receiving representations from areas that I consider have special needs; for example, children's homes which look after children younger than 2 years of age. None of these areas of need was drawn to my attention by any of the State Ministers. It is significant I think that on this occasion the statement was made not by a Health Minister but by a Minister for Agriculture. When a Minister for Agriculture starts promoting a school milk scheme for particular schools, I see in that more of the motivation of appeasing the dairy industry than helping areas of special need. (Opposition members interjecting) - 
I am sorry that the members of the Country Party cannot see that logic. I am still willing to look at any case that is made out by anybody relating to areas of. need - whether it be for nutrition, for Oslo lunches, or for giving grants sponsored perhaps by my colleague, the Minister for Education, to help institutions which have financial difficulties and which are bound to provide nutrition for children attending those institutions. I refer to child care centres, baby homes or schools. I think that would be a far more appropriate way in which to approach the problem. The States were notified of the termination of the school milk scheme, and there is no appropriate way in which to approach the Federal Government for aid under the school milk scheme because that scheme no longer exists at the Federal level. If the States wish to start such a scheme, I am quite happy to discuss their financial problems. 
I rise to thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for his words of commendation and encouragement. He referred to the support by several honourable members on this side of the national policy of the Australian Labor Party in defiance of an organisation which, as he expressed it, acts to control the calling to which the medical people on this side of the House have all belonged. I must commend him, too, for his similar action on many occasions when he has had the courage to defy the rulings given in his own Party room and has moved across the floor to vote with the Australian Labor Party. I commend him further for his action, when he was a Minister, in very ingeniously working in some very good socialist legislation against the entrenched forces that for many years had prevented such things as he introduced from happening. I instance the rehabilitation scheme which he sold to his supporters as a means of getting people off pensions and sickness benefits but which do some good nevertheless. Of course the Government will expand it to all forms of rehabilitation. 
I may add that the so-called union, the Australian Medical Association, which has been called the strongest union in Australia, is, as one of my professional colleagues interjected, not registered as a union but as an employer organisation and represents overwhelmingly those who employ other people to assist them in their private enterprise. The only point of major confrontation and difference between the Government and this so-called union is in relation to that issue of private enterprise being superior to the sorts of policies that the Australian Labor Government seeks to introduce and which are mainly for the upgrading of the public sector. I had handed to me by the Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association this afternoon what I would describe as an ultimatum on behalf of most of the private practice doctors in the Australian Capital Territory, not acting as a union on behalf of people who are negotiating conditions of employment but as a body delivering an ultimatum saying that they refuse the right of the elected Government of this country or indeed any authority in the Australian Capital Territory to increase the public sector of health care in this community. They are living in a past age and do not recognise the need for a public sector in their profession. 
No other profession acts like this. We do not have boycotts of the public sector by the private sector in the legal profession, among accountants or among teachers. People in these professions co-operate in an ethical way. Yet the proposal by Australian Capital Territory doctors is that the moment we move to expand the public sector by bringing salaried specialists into Canberra hospitals they will so far forget their professional principles as to refuse any communication, verbal or written, with a public practice doctor who takes over the care of one of their patients. This attitude jeopardises the patients' welfare, according to any principles of medical practice. If he likes, the. honourable member for Mackellar can say that I am scabbing on the union. I would say that those doctors in private practice who are taking this stand in the Australian Capital Territory are not scabbing on any union; they are scabbing on their own patients who employ them to do something, namely, to perform a professional service which they are committed to do, which as professional people they have undertaken to dp as a service and not as a commercial enterprise. 
Of course there are obligations to society. One of those obligations is to abide by the decrees of a court, as the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said, as the Government has said, and as the Labor Party's published policy documents show. 
 The honourable gentleman asks why they refuse to obey court orders. One would think that it was within the power of this Government or the alternative Government, which had 23 years to do it, to solve all industrial disputes and to prevent them by somehow going along to the union and saying: 'Please, will you do what the court says? Please, will you be good boys? Please, will you abide by your agreement with your employer? Please, will you consider the national interest instead of your own selfish interest?' What actions of any government have succeeded in doing this? 
There has been a great outcry from previous Ministers for Labor who are now in the Opposition ranks about the terrible lack of national responsibility among unionists. What have they ever done to terminate that situation? What have they done with unruly unions? When they were Ministers they suggested that the Opposition do something about it. They appealed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was the Leader of the Opposition, to solve the problem for them. They appealed to  Mr Bob  Hawke as the  President  of the Australian Labor Party to solve it for them. What does the record show? The record shows that although the absolute number of stoppages has increased with the full employment that we have pro duced - this has happened under regimes throughout the world when full employment was produced - the absolute number of man hours lost has gone down. This is what honourable members opposite forget. Most stoppages are now for 24 hours or Jess. One of the reasons for these stoppages is, of course, that unless an industrial dispute occurs many of the arbitration courts cannot hear a case. If there is no dispute the matter cannot go to arbitration; so very often there is no option but to create a stoppage. 
I resent the assumption that was made about somebody who refuses to sell his labour when he is not breaking any agreement. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  would uphold the right of the beef cattleman who is not getting any money back for beef when he takes it to the market to refuse to sell that beef. I resent the implication that a man refusing to sell his labour is acting against the national interest. AH stoppages are not against the national interest. If it were not for strikes, if it were not  for  union action, if it were not for the enforcement of union discipline, we would have the dark ages upon us today. I am sure that the honourable member for Mackellar would be in his element in such dark ages. 
There is no national or communal responsibility in the action of the AMA which we are opposing. The AMA is showing irresponsibility. On the one hand it says that it wants more doctors in the Australian Capital Territory. It is only because we are bringing salaried doctors into the ACT that general practitioner numbers have increased. They have not increased in the private sector. When  we  demonstrate that we can increase the number of doctors the AMA claims that we are encroaching on the private practice of its members. In almost the next breath it is saying that doctors are overworked and that we need more doctors. We believe that it is the duty of a national government to increase and improve the public sector, and we will look with sympathy at any encroachment that our efforts make on a man's private practice, but we are offering an alternative. I will negotiate with any individual or group the terms whereby practitioners may have sessional appointments at the hospital and the right  of  private practice. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31 December 1972. 
The answer to the 2 parts of the honourable member's question is no. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the National Health and Medical Research Council on acupuncture. 
I think the honourable member will realise that there is really no such thing as a Government policy on abortion. To answer the first part of the question, I am not aware that the group which has set up a women's clinic in Leichhardt with Federal funding and at the instance and initiative of the State Health Department was formerly operating an abortion clinic or that such clinic was known as 'Control'. However, should this group wish to provide legal thera peutic abortions at that clinic, presumably it would be entitled to do so in the same way as do other clinics within the New South Wales law. The last report I have from the clinic is, i think, something like 6 weeks old now, and at that stage the clinic had performed no abortions. 
The former Premier of Western Australia,  Mr John  Tonkin, indicated to me his intention to set up a wholebody diathermy facility in Perth for the treatment of cancer and he sent me some early case studies and other information from  Dr John  Holt, who is the Director of the Western Australian Institute of Radiotherapy. It is a promising new approach to the cure and curtailment of malignant growths, particularly cancer. My advisers are considering the assistance that should be given at the Federal level, especially as  Mr Tonkin  indicated bis intention to make the facility available to all Australians. The treatment, like local diathermy - that is, diathermy which heats only the affected regions of the body - is still in the experimental stage and the best guess available seems to be that ionic radiation or X-rays, cytotoxic chemicals, surgery and the local or whole-body heat treatments that we are speaking about can all play a part in some cases and reinforce each other. But it is likely that mainly the patients with a pessimistic outlook will be offered this treatment in the early statistical assessments. 
There have been a lot of allegations regarding these centres. One of the things that critics have failed to point out, of course, is that a much wider range of services is available in health centres than there is from isolated general practitioners who have not the team work available in health centres. One of the election opponents of the honourable member for Fraser, in comparing a private practice health centre with salaried doctor health centre, also made the error of comparing the number of patients registered at one centre with the number of attendances - patient visits - at the other. This has not been the only kind of absurdity that has come forward as a sign of either inability to understand the facts or a deliberate willingness to twist them. One accountant received considerable publicity when he estimated that medical care at the Melba centre would cost up to 126 per cent more than treatment from a private GP. I think he may have been spending too much time with his GP clients because he certainly relied on doctored figures. 
Here are 2 examples of the unreliability of his figures: He estimated the value of the Melba site at $50,000, although he had been told that the Taxation Commissioner had valued it at $35,000. He added another $45,000 to cover the cost of planning and development at Melba and Scullin although the total cost figure had been given to him for both centres including that amount. At Melba it is true that in March the fee was $6.11 per consultation without taking notional amounts into consideration for rent. I forecast in May that this cost would drop as the centre became more fully utilised and this prediction has been confirmed. In April the cost of a consultation at the Melba centre was $5.72; in May it was $4.37 and in June it was $4.90. Obviously these figures now compare more than favourably with the proposed fee increase to $5.60 for some of the New South Wales GPs. Finally, this Government will not rely on the cost per consultation as an adequate measure of the value of health care. We believe in measuring also the quality of care and the preventive medicine aspects. With , these considered the centres will compare even more favourably with the traditional market place medicine, especially as delivered by the Society of General Practitioners, which says that health care is a luxury commodity and not a right except for human vegetables. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories charter and activities in the Australian market for ethical drugs have not been expanded since 2 December 1972. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission, at the request of the Department of Health, is currently reviewing the role and functions of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. The review covers the research functions of the School, including its capacity to conduct health and health services research. 
Detailed recommendations will be contained in the Report which the Commission will make to the Department and which, after consideration by myself, is scheduled for release later this year. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A National Drug Advisory Council will soon be appointed to provide a forum whereby a wider cross-section of the community may become involved in influencing people against drug abuse. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not authorised or conducted tests on the phospholipid, lecithin. 
A product containing phospholipid substances related to lecithin was approved for clinical trial during 1972. The trial, which was continued for up to nine months in some cases, failed to show any significant lowering of blood cholesterol. There was no improvement in the clinical condition of any of the patients admitted to the trial and 75 per cent showed deterioration of their condition during the course of the trial. Consequently, the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee withdraw approval for the trial to continue. 
The Government is not planning to initiate tests with lecithin. However, as in the case of all new drugs, my Department would examine and, if necessary, submit to the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee, any application from research doctors or the pharmaceutical industry to conduct properly designed controlled trials with the group of lecithins. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The working party was established in February 1973 to examine the provision of medical and surgical aids and appliances to those who need them and is not limited to examining only the needs of patients with Pensioner Medical Service entitlement. The working party has a membership of nine and is constituted by six senior officers of the Department of Health (including the  chairman),  two of the Department of Social Security and one of the Repatriation and Compensation Department. 
In two areas the investigations of the working party have been completed and the proposals made implemented by the Government. These areas are, firstly, the provision of artificial limbs, free of charge, to those who need them, and, secondly, the abolition of the $10 charge previously paid by eligible pensioners supplied with a hearing aid by the National Acoustic Laboratories and the provision of free hearing aid batteries to these pensioners. 
In addition the working party has under various stages of investigation the provision of the following aids and appliances: hearing aids, spectacles, ostomy appliances, home dialysis equipment, insulin syringes, electronic larynxes, oxygen and oxygen equipment, equipment used by cystic fibrosis patients, medical wigs, breast forms. 
The working party is not examining as a separate item the provision of oxygen supplies to pensioner medical patients in their homes, but is considering it in the context of the provision of oxygen to all persons who require it, e.g. those patients with chronic cardiac and respiratory disease who would benefit from oxygen in the home. 
It is intended that the working party will eventually investigate the provision of most medical and surgical aids and appliances. As well as the items in (2) above, this will include wheelchairs, calipers and braces, orthopaedic shoes, aids to daily living, certain prostheses, dressings, mobility aids for the blind, and so on. The investigation is ongoing, however, and other items may be included as they are brought to the working party's attention. 
Yes. Reports will be made to me as Minister on all investigations made by the working party. 
The working party consists of departmental officers. It is not a public inquiry Commission. It was formed to advise me as Minister for Health on alternative policies for the provision of medical and surgical aids and appliances. Its reports will not be published prior to examination by the Government, unless public discussion is sought to assist policy elaboration in particular cases. 
See 3 above. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's  question is  as  follows: 
and (2) The Department of Health has sixtynine positions the functions of which relate solely to occupational health and safety. In these positions are employed: 17 Medical Officers providing overall direction, medical supervision and medical care in the nature of routine and special examinations and emergency first aid; 50 Sisters (Industrial) providing nursing services including routine testing, maintenance of records, rendering of first aid and minor emergency care; 1 Chemist and '1 Physicist providing specialist advice on and investigation into occupational hygiene problems 'of the workplace, i.e. identification, measurement and control of hazards in the workplace. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 329 on pages 626/627 of Hansard dated 24 July 1974. 
Department of Health: Officers concerned with occupational health and safety  (Question No. 422) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l), (2), (3) and (4) The Government has announced its policy. When further decisions are made, they will be announced. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is understood that the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in France, which started on 6 February 1974, did commence in a piggery. 
It is not known whether this outbreak resulted from pigs being fed swill containing meat scraps or other materials derived from an infected animal in an area where foot and mouth disease occurs. However, this is a commonly reported finding overseas when this disease breaks out in a piggery. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has announced its policy. When further decisions are made, they will be announced. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  i(l), (2) and (3) 1 refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 97 on page 625 Hansard dated 24 July, 1974. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has announced its policy. When further decisions are made, they will be announced. 
 The answer  to  the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1) and (2) No. However it is proposed to allocate a substantial amount for a print media advertising program having particular emphasis on education in tar and nicotine yields of cigarettes. Radio and television advertising does not form part of this National Warning Against Smoking Campaign in the 1974/75 financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Consideration is currently being given to arrangements to provide the supplementary nutritional requirements of needy children in child care or educational institutions. 

 -Mr Chairman, that was a fine flowing phrase that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  just used. He talked about 'a record of deceit unparalleled in Australian history'. He said: 'If that is not nationalisation of medicine, I do not know what is '. He was referring to economic pressures on doctors to join salaried service. But the statistics in respect of doctors who have joined salaried service under the present scheme- under the scheme launched, promoted and defended today by the once great Liberal Party- show that the ratio of medical practitioners on a salary in this country has increased from one in seven to three in ten. If it is nationalisation to cause economic pressures that cause doctors to go into salaried service, then I say that the Liberal Party has given us an example of 23 years of nationalisation of medicine. Let us get away from this nonsense and this misuse of words. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  misrepresented me by saying that I had foreseen 80 per cent of doctors moving into salaried practice within a few years. I said nothing of the kind. I said that I can foresee that possibly, ultimately, some day we might get as high as 80 per cent of doctors in a salaried service. I compared it to the teaching profession, which, if anything, is more vital than the medical profession, if there is one in this country, and I am sure honourable members would not look on teaching as nationalisation because 80 per cent of teachers, shall we say, are forced by economic pressures into a salaried situation. 
The honourable member for Hotham went further in his misleading statement by saying that if this ever occurred- he almost implied that it was going to happen in a few years, in some inexplicable way, because of the present health scheme proposals- only 20 per cent of people would be able to afford doctors in private practice. This is deliberate, calculated, knowing misrepresentation, because the honourable member knows that I have said to him in public debate and in private discussion, as have others on this side of the House, that in Queensland well over 40 per cent of the population still buys private hospital insurance and a much higher proportion buys private medical fee insurance. How can the honourable member conceivably make the misrepresentation that somehow the scheme that we are proposing, which continues subsidy to private hospital beds at a higher rate and which continue subsidy to private medical practice on an equitable tribunal-fixed scale, will tip people into the situation where in a few years only 25 per cent of them will be able to afford private doctors? This is the continual, deliberately misleading argument that we hear from the opposite side. 

 Senator Guilfoyle quoted some figures which indicated that the cost of this proposed scheme was about the same as the cost of the present scheme. The costing of it has shown that this is about the level at which it has been pitched. Two or three speakers on the other side have said that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has refused to cost his scheme. The only people who have never costed their scheme or ours or anybody else's are the members of the LiberalCountry Party coalition. They are the only people who have never produced costs. They quote airy fairy estimates plucked out of the air. Let me give an example quoted by a former Treasurer and the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden. 
This is some of their dishonesty- I will quote the honourable senator the figures which  Mr Snedden  stated in this House today. He misrepresented the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  just as others have misrepresented me. He said the Prime Minister had forecast that the 5.3 per cent of the gross domestic product now going on health care would rise by the year 2000 to 12 per cent of the gross domestic product. This we have from the former Treasurer who pretends to be the leader of an alternative government in this country. He said that the Prime Minister had predicted that under our scheme the cost would escalate to 12 per cent by the year 2000. The Prime Minister said nothing of the kind. He said, as I have said and as the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  has said- as several of us have said- that the best expert extimates of the way the exponential growth of health cost is going now is that if it continues at the present trend it will reach 12 per cent by the year 2000. It has nothing to do with whether we bring in our scheme or the Opposition sticks to its old ramshackle scheme until the year 2000. That is the sort of misrepresentation on which the Leader of the Opposition has built his case. 
The Leader of the Opposition made a few more sweeping statements. He said: 'We will defeat this bad socialist scheme'. Let me assure him that in this defeat we will not lose. He said that people do not want to have to wait in surgeries or hospitals, that they do not want everybody to be like a pea in a pod and that they do not want to be sent into a ward with a designated doctor. Can he point to one public hospital anywhere in this country- repatriation schemes, State schemes- in which one gets a choice as to one's doctor? He is trying to confuse the Australian people, as so many have tried to confuse the Australian people, including the Australian Medical Association and many of the voluntary insurance funds, by identifying the Goverment's scheme with a public ward scheme. We have done more in the White Paper and in this legislation to provide reasonable rates of cover for private and intermediate beds, as well as to upgrade the public sector, than any previous government. There is no way in which people are going to be forced into public wards. There is no way in which doctors are going to be forced onto salaries. Those are the things that have been speciously misrepresented around this country during the last 3 federal election campaigns and they are still being mouthed today by people who know that what they are saying is wrong. 
The honourable member for Hotham also made a few large and sweeping statements. He said: 'If you and your wife work and you live in Queensland you are going to be taxed 3 times. Your wife will be taxed, you will be taxed and you will be still paying the tax you are paying now which gives you the right to a free bed in Queensland'. Can he tell me of any married couple in that situation who do not have to pay 3 times to send their children to a private school? Is there any person whose wife works and is in receipt of an income who does not pay taxes for the public school system at the same time as he pays for the private schooling of his children? Is that not the same situation? Does somebody who goes into a private hospital in Queensland today not also pay by way of taxes for the public ward system in Queensland? Do a husband and wife not pay taxes from their incomes to support that system? It is the use of half-truths as lies to deceive people to say that they will be taxed 3 times. People are confused by the making of such sweeping statements. I do not blame them. 
Another dramatic statement by the honourable member for Hotham was that 80 per cent of the people who are insured- that is, 95 per cent of Australians- want their wives to have their babies in a private hospital. Is there any other government which has offered a way in which one can choose to have one's baby in a public hospital? The Government's White Paper provides for this. The honourable member has deliberately ignored the feature of the Government's scheme whereby, for the first time, there will be a way by which a private doctor who agrees to attend to people in public wards will be able to get his fee for the delivery and the patient will be able to continue as a public hospital patient. No other government- State or Federal- has put forward such a proposition. 
The honourable member for Hotham said that the Government will grab everyone in Australia for this scheme. Let us have a look at that statement. He said that the Government is introducing this scheme for the benefit of the 5 per cent of the population who are not covered. Have we grabbed everybody in Australia to set up the 
State school system? Have we grabbed everybody in Australia to join the pension scheme? These are legitimate social security functions in relation to which the community has a responsibility. The Opposition has made much of the scheme that it, as a government, brought in after World War II as being a great advance in the field of social security. Did it not grab everyone into that? The Opposition says: 'No, we gave you a choice. You can join a voluntary insurance fund if you want to or you can stay out of it'. Was anybody given a choice about whether $2 of every $3 that the private doctor earns should come from his taxes? That is what is being provided under the present scheme. Is the LiberalCountry Party scheme grabbing anybody in Australia or is it not? Those emotional phrases are not going to solve or stop this health debate. The Opposition is not going to stop the people of Australia from getting universal health insurance cover. It is not only our side of politics that has commended this proposal. As long ago as 1938 the founder of that once great Liberal Party said that the only solution to the problem of meeting health costs was a national health insurance scheme. In fact, the Liberal Party got very close to implementing it. Opposition supporters were very touchy on that subject when we suggested that they might be influenced by some vested interests in the field of insurance and that maybe the Australian Medical Association or voluntary funds were misusing investment avenues and promotion funds to influence them. The Opposition did not like that suggestion, but now it has changed its mind. What changed that great vision of  Sir Robert  Menzies and turned the Liberal Party away from a universal health insurance scheme? 
Why is Australia the only advanced country which for 23 years has had an almost complete scheme? It hovers on the brink and yet the previous governments were fearful to make it universal and fearful to give that cover to the 5 per cent to which the honourble member for Hotham referred? He said that we should not bring everyone down to a uniform mediocrity. I wonder whether he calls it ' dragging down ' when, for the first time, the Government makes available some kind of a mediocrity and some kind of equality of care- any kind of medical- for people who formerly had no cover whatever. The honourable member for Hotham spoke also about the long waiting lists for beds. I have worked in private medical practice at a reasonably mediocre level of affluence of the population in the western suburbs of Sydney. I have also worked in Queensland under that so-called horrible scheme of nationalised medicine where they have free hospitals. My experience, and that of any other doctor in those areas, no matter what side of politics they came from- the Opposition can confirm this view- was that we were never short of beds in Rockhampton but we were always short of beds for patients who lived in Chester Hill and if they wanted to get a bed they had to take a 40-minute trip in an ambulance - 
To the other side of Sydney, to the Royal North Shore Hospital and to the Coast Hospital very often. The waiting lists have not improved very much, I am told. In some parts of the western suburbs a person has to travel for 40 minutes not to be admitted to a hospital, but just to get to a doctor or an outpatients department. The scheme that we have now is creaking and is out of date. It is time for a radical reappraisal of it. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who spoke earlier in this debate pointed out that what we are debating today is a system of payment. Much has been made of statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security that our first nationalisation project would be health insurance. The Opposition has again misrepresented these statements by saying that the Government will nationalise all health services, and that of course is something very different. 
People on both sides of the House have stressed that nationalisation of health insurance is not nationalisation of medical services, that health services and health care delivery are not insurance and are not systems of payment. One of the biggest deficiencies in the present scheme is the inability, the unwillingness or the neglect of previous governments in any way to plan, to look ahead at the needs of health care delivery. In fact, when we made representations to former Ministers for Health they said consistently: 'It is not a matter for us, it is a matter for the States.' They washed their hands of the hospital system. They did not even dream of community health systems and they had no approach to rehabilitation, with one honourable exception. The only exception was the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who, when he was Minister for Social Services, managed to sell the then government a kind of rehabilitation program- a vocational rehabilitation program only, not a medical one. Its purpose was purely to get people off pensions and sickness benefits. It was purely a money saving operation and not a complete system of rehabilitation. These are the areas at which we have looked and in respect of which we have tabled reports in this Parliament. 
I refer to a community health program, a medical rehabilitation scheme for Australia and a hospitals program for Australia. We have been concerned with major federal funding and commitment and with major federal concern, planning and advice to the States, in co-operation with the States. This action of the Government has again been misrepresented as centralised bureaucracy. But what other government has done as much to help to decentralise these very functions and to insist that the local community committees and authorities and the voluntary organisations have a place in the regional organisation of health care? We have taken some of the power out of the centralised bureaucracies of the States. We have confronted the States and forced them into this position. 
The honourable member has referred to Canberra. The doctors in Canberra have at last seen the light, that some of their leaders have been leading them up the garden path. They have at least seen that I am a person who is willing to engage them, to offer them salaried posts on the conditions that apply in Queensland and Tasmania where salaried doctors are giving public service without the application of a means test. 
There is a means test for public beds in South Australia. I have told the doctors in Canberra that I am prepared to look at their guidelines or what they call their log of claims. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I met the principals of the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association in his office in Canberra when he was Minister for Labor and we offered to go through with them in detail any of their industrial complaints. We offered to discuss with them anything which they felt was not fair in a scheme which proposed the introduction of a salaried service in Canberra hospitals. We are still waiting on a document prepared by them. We are still waiting on one single written proposal to alter the agreement which we proposed to them. They have not taken up  Mr Cameron's  offer to make his officers available to work with them and to hammer out proposals. They have collected sheafs of legal advice but not one of those documents or objections has been shown to us. 
The rank and file doctors of the Australian Capital Territory know that they have been taken for a ride and I am sure that we will see some sanity emerge. I am sure that we will not only have full time salaried doctors of world standard engaged here treating public patients in Canberra for no cost and without a means test, but also we will have the doctors who are working in private practice now in this federal territory working alongside doctors engaged on the basis of sessional payments. 
That is a promise from the doctors themselves. That is what they have told me. No one is going to force them into this system. They will be offered an agreement, which will be a 2-sided agreement. The Queensland Government and governments of other colours have offered doctors these conditions and the Australian Medical Association in those States willingly has accepted those conditions. We are going to pay doctors for what they now do for nothing, bearing in mind that 20 per cent of their work is done as charity. We are to give them a bit of payment and recognition for the work they do. 
We have heard much nonsense from the other side of the chamber that our scheme will destroy the doctor-patient relationship. But has it destroyed the doctor-relationship of every single private doctor when he was a resident medical officer? 
The CHAD1MAN- Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This problem extends into other health services as well as hospitals. At present health services cost our nation more than $2,000m a year or about 5.3 per cent of gross domestic product. Their cost is increasing so dramatically that it has been estimated that our expenditure on health services could be more that 12 per cent of gross domestic product by the year 2000. The result of this increase has been especially reflected in hospitals. Higher charges and growing deficits have become a feature of our hospital system in recent years. 
Other words in the speech make it quite clear to what the honourable gentleman was referring. He said, for instance, as appears at page 6: 
The proposed levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable income will prove cheaper than the present health insurance scheme for the great majority of Australians. 
I do not agree with that statement, but it does indentify what he was talking about, that is, the proposed Labor health scheme with the 1.35 per cent levy. On page 8 the honourable gentleman is reported as saying in the speech he made at Liverpool: 
The Government will have a majority to ensure their passage at the Joint Sitting. 
He was referring to the health scheme legislation. He continued: 
It remains the Government's firm intention to introduce the program. Obstruction in the Senate may have delayed its introduction, but will not prevent it. We expect the health insurance program to become a reality in 1975. 
There can be no doubt,  Mr Chairman,  to what the Prime Minister was referring. 
The other matter I wish to raise is that in his speech the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  said that I had said- and I certainly did- that the Minister for Health had not costed his scheme. There were interjections from this side of the House asking what is the cost. I will be delighted if the honourable gentleman will produce the costs. 

 - Mr Chairman, that was a fine flowing phrase that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  just used. He talked about 'a record of deceit unparalleled in Australian history'. He said: 'If that is not nationalisation of medicine, I do not know what is '. He was referring to economic pressures on doctors to join salaried service. But the statistics in respect of doctors who have joined salaried service under the present scheme- under the scheme launched, promoted and defended today by the once great Liberal Party- show that the ratio of medical practitioners on a salary in this country has increased from one in seven to three in ten. If it is nationalisation to cause economic pressures that cause doctors to go into salaried service, then I say that the Liberal Party has given us an example of 23 years of nationalisation of medicine. Let us get away from this nonsense and this misuse of words. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  misrepresented me by saying that I had foreseen 80 per cent of doctors moving into salaried practice within a few years. I said nothing of the kind. I said that I can foresee that possibly, ultimately, some day we might get as high as 80 per cent of doctors in a salaried service. I compared it to the teaching profession, which, if anything, is more vital than the medical profession, if there is one in this country, and I am sure honourable members would not look on teaching as nationalisation because 80 per cent of teachers, shall we say, are forced by economic pressures into a salaried situation. 
The honourable member for Hotham went further in his misleading statement by saying that if this ever occurred- he almost implied that it was going to happen in a few years, in some inexplicable way, because of the present health scheme proposals- only 20 per cent of people would be able to afford doctors in private practice. This is deliberate, calculated, knowing misrepresentation, because the honourable member knows that I have said to him in public debate and in private discussion, as have others on this side of the House, that in Queensland well over 40 per cent of the population still buys private hospital insurance and a much higher proportion buys private medical fee insurance. How can the honourable member conceivably make the misrepresentation that somehow the scheme that we are proposing, which continues subsidy to private hospital beds at a higher rate and which continue subsidy to private medical practice on an equitable tribunal-fixed scale, will tip people into the situation where in a few years only 25 per cent of them will be able to afford private doctors? This is the continual, deliberately misleading argument that we hear from the opposite side. 

 Senator Guilfoyle quoted some figures which indicated that the cost of this proposed scheme was about the same as the cost of the present scheme. The costing of it has shown that this is about the level at which it has been pitched. Two or three speakers on the other side have said that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has refused to cost his scheme. The only people who have never costed their scheme or ours or anybody else's are the members of the LiberalCountry Party coalition. They are the only people who have never produced costs. They quote airy fairy estimates plucked out of the air. Let me give an example quoted by a former Treasurer and the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden. 
This is some of their dishonesty- I will quote the honourable senator the figures which  Mr Snedden  stated in this House today. He misrepresented the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  just as others have misrepresented me. He said the Prime Minister had forecast that the 5.3 per cent of the gross domestic product now going on health care would rise by the year 2000 to 12 per cent of the gross domestic product. This we have from the former Treasurer who pretends to be the leader of an alternative government in this country. He said that the Prime Minister had predicted that under our scheme the cost would escalate to 12 per cent by the year 2000. The Prime Minister said nothing of the kind. He said, as I have said and as the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  has said- as several of us have said- that the best expert extimates of the way the exponential growth of health cost is going now is that if it continues at the present trend it will reach 12 per cent by the year 2000. It has nothing to do with whether we bring in our scheme or the Opposition sticks to its old ramshackle scheme until the year 2000. That is the sort of misrepresentation on which the Leader of the Opposition has built his case. 
The Leader of the Opposition made a few more sweeping statements. He said: 'We will defeat this bad socialist scheme'. Let me assure him that in this defeat we will not lose. He said that people do not want to have to wait in surgeries or hospitals, that they do not want everybody to be like a pea in a pod and that they do not want to be sent into a ward with a designated doctor. Can he point to one public hospital anywhere in this country-repatriation schemes, State schemes- in which one gets a choice as to one's doctor? He is trying to confuse the Australian people, as so many have tried to confuse the Australian people, including the Australian Medical Association and many of the voluntary insurance funds, by identifying the Goverment 's scheme with a public ward scheme. We have done more in the White Paper and in this legislation to provide reasonable rates of cover for private and intermediate beds, as well as to upgrade the public sector, than any previous government. There is no way in which people are going to be forced into public wards. There is no way in which doctors are going to be forced onto salaries. Those are the things that have been speciously misrepresented around this country during the last 3 federal election campaigns and they are still being mouthed today by people who know that what they are saying is wrong. 
The honourable member for Hotham also made a few large and sweeping statements. He said: 'If you and your wife work and you live in Queensland you are going to be taxed 3 times. Your wife will be taxed, you will be taxed and you will be still paying the tax you are paying now which gives you the right to a free bed in Queensland'. Can he tell me of any married couple in that situation who do not have to pay 3 times to send their children to a private school? Is there any person whose wife works and is in receipt of an income who does not pay taxes for the public school system at the same time as he pays for the private schooling of his children? Is that not the same situation? Does somebody who goes into a private hospital in Queensland today not also pay by way of taxes for the public ward system in Queensland? Do a husband and wife not pay taxes from their incomes to support that system? It is the use of half-truths as lies to deceive people to say that they will be taxed 3 times. People are confused by the making of such sweeping statements. I do not blame them. 
Another dramatic statement by the honourable member for Hotham was that 80 per cent of the people who are insured- that is, 95 per cent of Australians- want their wives to have their babies in a private hospital. Is there any other government which has offered a way in which one can choose to have one's baby in a public hospital? The Government's White Paper provides for this. The honourable member has deliberately ignored the feature of the Government's scheme whereby, for the first time, there will be a way by which a private doctor who agrees to attend to people in public wards will be able to get his fee for the delivery and the patient will be able to continue as a public hospital patient. No other government- State or Federal- has put forward such a proposition. 
The honourable member for Hotham said that the Government will grab everyone in Australia for this scheme. Let us have a look at that statement. He said that the Government is introducing this scheme for the benefit of the 5 per cent of the population who are not covered. Have we grabbed everybody in Australia to set up the 
State school system? Have we grabbed everybody in Australia to join the pension scheme? These are legitimate social security functions in relation to which the community has a responsibility. The Opposition has made much of the scheme that it, as a government, brought in after World War II as being a great advance in the field of social security. Did it not grab everyone into that? The Opposition says: 'No, we gave you a choice. You can join a voluntary insurance fund if you want to or you can stay out of it '. Was anybody given a choice about whether $2 of every $3 that the private doctor earns should come from his taxes? That is what is being provided under the present scheme. Is the LiberalCountry Party scheme grabbing anybody in Australia or is it not? Those emotional phrases are not going to solve or stop this health debate. The Opposition is not going to stop the people of Australia from getting universal health insurance cover. It is not only our side of politics that has commended this proposal. As long ago as 1938 the founder of that once great Liberal Party said that the only solution to the problem of meeting health costs was a national health insurance scheme. In fact, the Liberal Party got very close to implementing it. Opposition supporters were very touchy on that subject when we suggested that they might be influenced by some vested interests in the field of insurance and that maybe the Australian Medical Association or voluntary funds were misusing investment avenues and promotion funds to influence them. The Opposition did not like that suggestion, but now it has changed its mind. What changed that great vision of  Sir Robert  Menzies and turned the Liberal Party away from a universal health insurance scheme? 
Why is Australia the only advanced country which for 23 years has had an almost complete scheme? It hovers on the brink and yet the previous governments were fearful to make it universal and fearful to give that cover to the 5 per cent to which the honourble member for Hotham referred? He said that we should not bring everyone down to a uniform mediocrity. I wonder whether he calls it 'dragging down' when, for the first time, the Government makes available some kind of a mediocrity and some kind of equality of care- any kind of medical- for people who formerly had no cover whatever. The honourable member for Hotham spoke also about the long waiting lists for beds. I have worked in private medical practice at a reasonably mediocre level of affluence  of the  population in the western suburbs of Sydney. I have also worked in Queensland under that so-called horrible scheme of nationalised medicine where they have free hospitals. My experience, and that of any other doctor in those areas, no matter what side of politics they came from- the Opposition can confirm this view- was that we were never short of beds in Rockhampton but we were always short of beds for patients who lived in Chester Hill and if they wanted to get a bed they had to take a 40-minute trip in an ambulance - 
To the other side of Sydney, to the Royal North Shore Hospital and to the Coast Hospital very often. The waiting lists have not improved very much, I am told. In some parts of the western suburbs a person has to travel for 40 minutes not to be admitted to a hospital, but just to get to a doctor or an outpatients department. The scheme that we have now is creaking and is out of date. It is time for a radical reappraisal of it. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who spoke earlier in this debate pointed out that what we are debating today is a system of payment. Much has been made of statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security that our first nationalisation project would be health insurance. The Opposition has again misrepresented these statements by saying that the Government will nationalise all health services, and that of course is something very different. 
People on both sides of the House have stressed that nationalisation of health insurance is not nationalisation of medical services, that health services and health care delivery are not insurance and are not systems of payment. One of the biggest deficiencies in the present scheme is the inability, the unwillingness or the neglect of previous governments in any way to plan, to look ahead at the needs of health care delivery. In fact, when we made representations to former Ministers for Health they said consistently: 'It is not a matter for us, it is a matter for the States.' They washed their hands of the hospital system. They did not even dream of community health systems and they had no approach to rehabilitation, with one honourable exception. The only exception was the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who, when he was Minister for Social Services, managed to sell the then government a kind of rehabilitation program- a vocational rehabilitation program only, not a medical one. Its purpose was purely to get people off pensions and sickness benefits. It was purely a money saving operation and not a complete system of rehabilitation. These are the areas at which we have looked and in respect of which we have tabled reports in this Parliament. 
I refer to a community health program, a medical rehabilitation scheme for Australia and a hospitals program for Australia. We have been concerned with major federal funding and commitment and with major federal concern, planning and advice to the States, in co-operation with the States. This action of the Government has again been misrepresented as centralised bureaucracy. But what other government has done as much to help to decentralise these very functions and to insist that the local community committees and authorities and the voluntary organisations have a place in the regional organisation of health care? We have taken some of the power out of the centralised bureaucracies of the States. We have confronted the States and forced them into this position. 
The honourable member has referred to Canberra. The doctors in Canberra have at last seen the light, that some of their leaders have been leading them up the garden path. They have at least seen that I am a person who is willing to engage them, to offer them salaried posts on the conditions that apply in Queensland and Tasmania where salaried doctors are giving public service without the application of a means test. 
There is a means test for public beds in South Australia. I have told the doctors in Canberra that 1 am prepared to look at their guidelines or what they call their log of claims. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I met the principals of the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association in his office in Canberra when he was Minister for Labor and we offered to go through with them in detail any of their industrial complaints. We offered to discuss with them anything which they felt was not fair in a scheme which proposed the introduction of a salaried service in Canberra hospitals. We are still waiting on a document prepared by them. We are still waiting on one single written proposal to alter the agreement which we proposed to them. They have not taken up  Mr Cameron  's offer to make his officers available to work with them and to hammer out proposals. They have collected sheafs of legal advice but not one of those documents or objections has been shown to us. 
The rank and file doctors of the Australian Capital Territory know that they have been taken for a ride and I am sure that we will see some sanity emerge. I am sure that we will not only have full time salaried doctors of world standard engaged here treating public patients in Canberra for no cost and without a means test, but also we will have the doctors who are working in private practice now in this federal territory working alongside doctors engaged on the basis of sessional payments. 
That is a promise from the doctors themselves. That is what they have told me. No one is going to force them into this system. They will be offered an agreement, which will be a 2-sided agreement. The Queensland Government and governments of other colours have offered doctors these conditions and the Australian Medical Association in those States willingly has accepted those conditions. We are going to pay doctors for what they now do for nothing, bearing in mind that 20 per cent of their work is done as charity. We are to give them a bit of payment and recognition for the work they do. 
We ha ve heard much nonsense from the other side of the chamber that our scheme will destroy the doctor-patient relationship. But has it destroyed the doctor-relationship of every single private doctor when he was a resident medical officer? 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce-Leader of the Opposition)  -Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This problem extends into other health services as well as hospitals. At present health services cost our nation more than $2,000m a year or about 5.3 per cent of gross domestic product. Their cost is increasing so dramatically that it has been estimated that our expenditure on health services could be more thai 12 per cent of gross domestic product by the year 2000. The result of this increase has been especially reflected in hospitals. Higher charges and growing deficits have become a feature of our hospital system in recent years. 
Other words in the speech make it quite clear to what the honourable gentleman was referring. He said, for instance, as appears at page 6: 
The proposed levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable income will prove cheaper than the present health insurance scheme for the great majority of Australians. 
I do not agree with that statement, but it does indentify what he was talking about, that is, the proposed Labor health scheme with the 1.35 per cent levy. On page 8 the honourable gentleman is reported as saying in the speech he made at Liverpool: 
The Government will have a majority to ensure their passage at the Joint Sitting. 
He was referring to the health scheme legislation. He continued: 
It remains the Government's firm intention to introduce the program. Obstruction in the Senate may have delayed its introduction, but will not prevent it. We expect the health insurance program to become a reality in 1 975. 
There can be no doubt,  Mr Chairman,  to what the Prime Minister was referring. 
The other matter I wish to raise is that in his speech the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  said that I had said- and I certainly did- that the Minister for Health had not costed his scheme. There were interjections from this side of the House asking what is the cost. I will be delighted if the honourable gentleman will produce the costs. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the following report prepared by the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances entitled: 
Provision of Stoma Appliances to all who need them. 
Provision of Dialysis Equipment and Supplies for home dialysis. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian Government has not adopted a policy of 'not providing in-patient accommodation for mental patients'. 
Prior to its expiration on 30 June 1973, the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act 1964-1970 provided Australian Government assistance on a $1 for $2 basis towards the capital costs of State mental health institutions. The present Government's concern for the provision of residential facilities for the mentally ill and intellectually handicapped is reflected in the more flexible and more generous levels of assistance available under its Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program and its Community Health Program. 
The Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program is based on the Mental Health and Related Services Assistance Act 1973. It provides for 100 per cent Australian Government funding of community based mental health, alcoholism and drug dependency projects in 1973-74 and 1974-75, and allocates $7.5m for that purpose in each of those two years. 
After 1974-75, the Community Mental Health Program will be encompassed by the more broadly based Community Health Program. The latter Program provided $10m on a 100 per cent Australian Government funding basis in 1973-74. Australian Government funding of capital costs under the Community Health Program in 1974-75 and 1 975-76 will be on a 75 per cent basis. 
Both Programs enable Australian Government financial assistance to be provided for the capital costs of community (rather than institutionally) oriented residential facilities for the mentally ill and intellectually handicapped, and for alcoholics and drug dependent persons. Indeed, substantial Australian Government capital assistance was provided under those Programs in 1 973-74, for such facilities. 
Twenty-seven projects including or involving the provision of land or buildings for hostel accommodation for mentally ill or intellectually handicapped persons were approved for Australian Government funding. These projects attracted a total allocation of over $3.7m. An additional $154,000 was allocated to another nine projects involving the furnishing and equipping of existing premises for use as hostels for the mentally til and intellectually handicapped. 
Over $lm was allocated to another eleven projects that included the provision of hostel accommodation for alcoholics or drug dependent persons. 
With regard to the Victorian situation, it is relevant that, because of the Australian Government's desire to have the States' co-operation in these Programs, projects are not generally funded unless they are sponsored by the State authorities. The Victorian proposals originally submitted for 1973-74 contained only one project involving residential accommodation. 
As announced in my press statement of 9 May 1974, $964,000 of the original 1973-74 allocation of $2m to Victoria under the Community Mental Program was not utilised by that State and was re-allocated to other States. Shortly after that statement, the Victorian Minister of Health requested Australian Government funds for the purchase of two properties- one at Balwyn and the other at Middle Park- for use as mental health hostels. On 1 1 June 1974, 1 approved the allocation of $1,270,000 for that purpose, under the Community Health Program. 
The question of future support for residential accommodation of the mentally ill and intellectually handicapped has been considered by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and is dealt with in its 'Report on Hospitals in Australia', which was tabled in Parliament on 10 April 1974. 
It is a matter of some interest that Victoria refused to participate in the hospital statistical study carried out throughout Australia as background to that Report. 
The Government is giving detailed consideration to the recommendations in that Report. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter is currently under consideration by my Department and much will depend on investigations being carried out on the feasibility of collecting uniform national statistics on drug dependents. A pilot study has recently been commenced in Victoria, in which statistics on drug dependents are being collected from appropriate sources throughout the State for collation in a central recording system. 
Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council  (Question No. 462) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Members of the Food Standards Committee are appointed (or re-appointed), usually for three years, by the Minister for Health and are selected for the expertise and experience they possess in fields that have relevance to the work of the Committee. The current membership is: 

 Dr F. H. Reuter (Chairman): Former Associate Professor of Food Technology, University of New South Wales and currently Editor 'Food Technology', official organ of the Council of Australian Food Technology Associations Inc. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter is primarily one for the Minister for Agriculture. However, the honourable member will be aware that, as foreshadowed in its Rural Policy Speech, the Government has recently announced that it will establish a Bureau of Animal Health. 
&amp; (3) The Government's announcement indicated that the Bureau will be established within the Department of Agriculture. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Government's recognition of the urgent need to provide financial assistance for the treatment of alcoholics, as well as persons suffering from mental illness and drug abuse, is reflected in the provisions of the Mental Health and Related Services Assistance Act 1973. That Act authorises Federal grants of up to $7.5m each year in 1973-74 and 1 974-75 for approved projects under the Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program. 
After June 1975, such assistance will continue to be provided, but under the more broadly based Community Health Program. 
Not only intake and assessment centres, but also community oriented facilities and services for the treatment and rehabilitation of alcoholics have been funded under the Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program. In 1973-74, allocations were made for the following projects dealing wholly or partly with alcoholism: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) No. Steps taken each year ensure that sufficient funds are available to pay chemist's claims. However, processing of some claims was delayed in my Department's Brisbane Office towards the close of the 1973-74 financial year because of the absence of staff who were ill. 
M.V. 'Lorana' (Question No. 727) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes 
18 and 26 June 1974. 
Rat droppings and gnaw marks of rats were found in the mid section and forepeak, but none in the holds. It was estimated that the rat population was about ten. 
On 19 June 1974 it was decided not to fumigate the ship with hydrocyanic acid gas because- 
1080 poison baiting had resulted in the recovery of four carcases and seven baits had been partially eaten. Another carcase was recovered several days later. 
Infestation was limited to the mid section and forepeak of the vessel. 
The vessel was due to be fumigated with methyl bromide for grain pests under the Export (Grain) Regulations. This fumigation also kills rats. 
Baiting is considered successful if a large proportion of bodies of dead rats is found after a certain number of baits has been eaten. 
A Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 belonging to my Department inspected the holds under the Export (Grain) Regulations and issued a fumigation order on behalf of the Australian Department of Agriculture. 
The standard rat guards used by this vessel were acceptable under Quarantine (General) Regulations. Guards, however, in high winds may become displaced. An officer of my Department ensures that when this occurs the guards are resecured 
(a) and (b) No. 
It was reported on 26 June that lids on drums of refuse on the M.V. 'Lorana' were faulty, or not in position so that refuse had spilled over on to the deck attracting sea gulls. I understand that gulls were not seen to eat or take away food scraps. As this could occur in these circumstances, the Master of the vessel was ordered to take action to prevent spillage of refuse and the drums were emptied early on the following day by the Fremantle Port Authority. 
10) Under the name of 'Pennleader', the vessel called at Gladstone (Queensland), Chittagong, and Singapore before sailing to Fremantle. The owners renamed the vessel 'Lorana' while at Singapore. 
1 understand the vessel is a converted tanker but am unaware of its age. 
The World Health Organisation in its publication 'Vector Control in International Health' 1972, does not specifically mention methods of vector (includes rodents) control on older vessels. Ships are considered as warehouses or hotels, or as a combination of both, similar to those on land. Ships continually move from place to place and in so doing may transport insects, rodents and other pests to some other place where they may become established. The World Health Organisation considers that the presence of rodents on board a ship depends on the following factors- 
sanitary conditions in the ports entered, their degree of infestation and, in some cases, the geographical area in which the port is situated; 
the nature of the cargo taken aboard; 
the general state of cleanliness of the ship. 
In regard to trapping, WHO advocates this method of control for rodents taken aboard modern rat-proof ships with cargo. It is only successful in very limited infestations and if it is applied very soon after the infestation occurs. Massive infestations are best handled by sanitary measures and a program of poisoning using anticoagulants or acute poisons as dictated by conditions. On some occasions fumigation with toxic gases (hydrocyanic acid gas, for example) may be used but this is a dangerous and inconvenient technique that is best reserved for use when the whole ship can be subjected to fumigation. 
My Department accepts these guidelines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Four incinerators have been installed for use at Perth Airport consisting of one gas-fired and three wood-fired units. The Department of Transport is responsible for the operation of these incinerators and my Department does not keep a record of breakdowns. It has always been possible to dispose of galley waste by incineration at any time of day or night. 
If one incinerator becomes unserviceable, international aircraft garbage is incinerated in one of the other units. 
The Department has received no substantiated complaints and the Committee that enquired into quarantine at Fremantle and at Perth Airport in March 1 974 was unable to establish that international aircraft garbage had been dumped on the Belmont rubbish tip. Consequently no action has been taken in this regard. 
The Department knows of no cases and the Committee was satisfied that there was no evidence of international aircraft garbage having been dumped on rubbish tips in the Penh area. No action, therefore, has been taken. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations arising from the discussions among the representatives attending the Workshops on Aboriginal Medical Services which was held at Albury, New South Wales, 5-7 July 1974 number twenty-two. These include such things as a suggested administrative structure for Aboriginal and Islander health organisations, the provision of funds for the expansion and extension of existing health and dental services, the training of staff working in Aboriginal health fields. The recommendations are included in a report of the proceedings of the Workshop which is being prepared and should be made public in the near future. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although Federal grants may be made direct to local government authorities under the Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program, no grants have yet been made to such authorities. With the objective of co-ordination of projects within each State, applications received by the Government for grants to bodies other than State authorities are considered only in the light of advice from the State authorities, and such grants are usually made through the State authorities. 
Any conditions under which a grant might be made to a local government authority would be determined in the light of the particular circumstances. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The survey undertaken by the National Health and Medical Research Council into the smoking habits of Australian school children, a comprehensive study involving over 26,000 children, has been completed. The first phase, consisting of a short re-run of the questions asked in the survey conducted in 1 969, was carried out in June 1 973 and the second, the main in-depth analysis, in September-October 1973. 
Preliminary data from the first phase are currently being analysed and tables prepared. However, results of the second, in-depth, part of the survey will not be available for some time, due to allocation of data processing priorities in the Department to other areas. 
Any significant findings will be made available to Parliament when these become known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to the concern expressed by apiarists about the importation of leafcutter bees from the United States of America into Australia. 
It is correct that one consignment of imported leafcutter bees was infected with chalkbrood disease. 
and (4) All bees in the consignment, including those which were not obviously infected, were destroyed. 
It is not the intention of the Government to prohibit further introduction of these bees and approval has been granted by the Director of Quarantine for the importation of further consignments. 
The attitude of the Government towards future importation is that, provided these bees are maintained under the strict conditions of quarantine which were imposed in the first instance, there will be no risk of introducing diseases of bees into Australia. The discovery of this disease is complete vindication of the precautions taken to ensure that no diseases of bees are brought in and this procedure will be maintained. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of people in Australia who have tuberculosis at the present time is not known. However, at 31 December 1973 4,442 people were receiving active treatment for tuberculosis and a further 169,299 were under regular surveillance against possible breakdown with tuberculosis. 
and (3) The number of people who died from tuberculosis and those found to have tuberculosis in each of the last 10 years was: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are over 1 80 known different in vitro radioisotope diagnostic kits for the assay of 39 different biologicals which could be purchased from overseas sources of supply by medical laboratories in Australia which hold licences from State Authorities to use radioisotopes. Of these, the following kits were being provided in July 1 974 at no charge by the Australian Radiation Laboratory to approved medical users for routine diagnostic tests on patients: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">The following numbers of ships were inspected at the ports named from 1 January 1 973 to 30 June 1 974. 
This matter was raised with the Health Ministers at their recent conference. The fact that this was done is an earnest of our intention to co-ordinate our legislative activities with those of the States to ensure that advertising is not misleading and is in the interests of the consumer of therapeutic goods. I hope that the States will honour the undertakings they gave on that occasion and will move rapidly to implement the recommendations upon which we achieved this consensus. But, of course, if there are unforeseen delays we would not feel bound to wait for the initiatives of the States as some of our predecessors did. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health, 1973-74. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled 'Continuing Medical Education', dated August 1974. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973 I present for the information of honourable members the Hospitals and Health Services Commission first annual report 1973-74. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Hospital and Health Services Commission entitled 'A proposal for a Scheme to Accredit Pathology Services in Australia '. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on hospitals in Australia prepared by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. Because of the limited number of copies available at this time I have arranged for reference copies of this report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A considerable amount of research into deafness is being undertaken in Australia by various bodies. I can only answer the honourable member's question in respect to research supported by the Australian Government. It supports research into deafness through the National Acoustic Laboratories and the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The National Acoustic Laboratories have conducted research into deafness since their inception in 1949 and many contributions to knowledge have been made. Some results of their research have appeared in Australian and overseas professional journals. In fact, 28 papers have been published in the last three years. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council supports research into deafness as part of its general support for medical research. Professor Clark's group at Melbourne University is currently receiving support. 
The cost of research at the National Acoustic Laboratories in the 1973-74 financial year was approximately $134,000 (salaries $1 15,000; equipment $19,000). Fourteen psychologists, engineers and technical officers are at present engaged either wholly or part-time in this work. At present, research there is being carried out on the following aspects of deafness. 
diagnosis of hearing disorders 
quantification and measurement of hearing handicaps 
hearing aids 
epidemiology 
effects of noise on hearing and methods of protection ( 0 psycho-acoustic properties of the ear 
treatment of Meniere's disease by ultrasonic irradiation. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council support for Professor Clark's group in the 1973-74 financial year was $6,600. In past years the group has received support totalling in excess of $40,000. 
No. In the matter of research undertaken by the NAL. I cannot agree that we are not pulling our weight. One most noticeable recent contribution has been the research carried out by  Mr J.  Macrae, Psychologist-in-Charge of the Audiology and Psychology Research Section.  His  work on impedance audiometry has received international recognition. 
The Laboratories have recently obtained approval to extend work on the detection and diagnosis of hearing disorders. A special section staffed by psychologists, a physicist and a technical officer is being set up to investigate central hearing dysfunctions associated with hearing disabilities in children. The cost of this section for a full year will be $50,000 ($39,000 salaries and $ 1 1,000 equipment). 
In the areas of NH &amp; MRC supported research, hearing, speech and vision disabilities have been designated an area of special need. However, although prominence was given to this in the advertising by NH &amp; MRC of grant awards for 1973 and 1974, few applications were received. While funds available through the NH &amp; MRC for medical research will be in excess of $6 million in 1975, applications for research into deafness have again been few in number. 
It is known that research on aspects of deafness is being carried out at the Physiology Department of the University of Western Australia; Medical Centre, Monash University; University of Melbourne, Department of Otolaryngology; University of New England, Department of Psychology and the University of Brisbane, Department of Speech Therapy. It appears that, of all these institutions, the most extensive work is being carried out at the Physiology Department, University of Western Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The criticisms were referred to the Occupational Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and a reply on that Committee's deliberations has been made. 
Yes. The National Health and Medical Research Council Draft Model Asbestos Regulations were circulated to the A.C.T.U. and State Labor Councils. The Regulations were examined by unions concerned who advised they had nothing further to add. 
The Australian Government delegates to the 59th ( 1974) session of the International Labor Conference supported the adoption of the Convention and recommendation on occupational cancer. The subject matter of the instruments is appropriate for action partly by the States and partly by the Australian Government. Accordingly, copies of the authentic texts of the instruments will be forwarded to the competent Federal and State authorities for their advice on the compliance of current law and practice with the provisions of the instruments and their expert views regarding ratification of the convention and giving effect to the provisions of the recommendation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Royal Australian Nursing Federation approached the Interim Committee of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission in November 1973 for finance for a Nursing Research and Education Foundation. 
The Commission also has before it submissions from other non-medical health service and career groups for similar funding. 
The Commission 's Committee on Health Careers (Personnel and Training) is currently considering these submissions and the Australia-wide needs they propose to serve. The Committee will be making its recommendations on action in its first report on Australian Health Manpower, scheduled for release in late 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Royal Australian Nursing Federation, in submissions to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and its Committee on Health Careers (Personnel and Training), sought unspecified funds in support of nurse education and training initiatives. 
RANF, on behalf of the Working Party on Goals in Nursing Education, has already received funds under the Health Services (Research and Planning) Program to enable a survey of proposals for changes in nursing education to be undertaken. 
The RANF submissions have canvassed a wide range of proposals for enhancing nurse education and training. These proposals will be evaluated and discussed in a report by the Commission later this year on health manpower generally. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Management Consultant Firms  (Question No.  812) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is not available as, in the past, no arrangements have been made for its collection. However, this situation is now being corrected following the creation within the Department of Health of a special section to collect this type of information in the future. 
In addition the Government has established through the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, a Committee on Health Careers (Personnel and Training) to advise the Government on the implications of the material collected. 
The Royal Australian Nursing Federation and other relevant bodies are co-operating in this process. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The functions of the National Drug Advisory Council will be: 
to provide a forum whereby a wide cross-section of the community may become involved in influencing people against drug abuse; 
to examine submissions and proposals from various community organisations and agencies on various aspects associated with the fight against drug abuse; 
to submit recommendations and proposals on behalf of these various organisations and disciplines to the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence for consideration. 
No. The National Drug Advisory Council will be formally established by Ministerial determination under the general powers of the Minister for Health. 
The Council will consist of 2 1 members chosen by the Ministers for Health and Customs and Excise of whom seven have been directly chosen by those Ministers with the remaining fourteen being selected from State and Territory nominations. In making the latter selections, the aim has been to select two members from each State and one from each Territory, ensuring that there is, as far as possible, some balance in interests and age groupings. 
Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment  (Question No. 975) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Occasional reports have been received that foreign fishing vessels off the northern and western Australian coast carry goats and animals which could be carriers of foot and mouth disease. It is only very rarely that such reports have been substantiated. 
Yes. 
No. 
My Department is working in close liaison with other interested Departments to prevent intrusions of foreign fishermen on Australian mainland and waters. When reports of alleged landings of foreign fishermen are received, the Western Australian Division of the Quarantine Service sends out aircraft for surveillance. Regular nights also have been undertaken during the traditional fishing season when overseas fishing vessels are likely to be in the area. If landings are confirmed, a helicopter service is arranged. These flights are in addition to patrols made by the Departments of Customs and Excise and Defence, which are mounting near continuous patrols in and around the highest risk areas during the August to October and March to May periods when the majority of intrusions occur. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Officers engaged in quarantine duties throughout the Department are given on-the-job training and instruction to facilitate their part in the discharge of the quarantine function. 
Formal training courses are currently in progress at which each officer will attend in progression. 
The answer to the right honourable members question is as follows: 
The Governor-General has appointed Miss Mary Patten, a Secretary of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation, as a part-time Commissioner  or  the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
I am currently considering the appointment of an eminent lay woman to the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The establishment of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission is set out under Section 9(1) of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973. Under the Act the Commission shall consist of three full-time and not fewer than  four  nor more than nine part-time Commissioners, appointed by the Governor-General. A small Secretariat to assist the Commission is provided on the establishment of the Department of Health. 
Appointments have been made to the three fulltime Commissioner positions and the nine part-time Commissioner positions. 
The Secretariat staff provided to the Commission by the Department of Health is included in the overall ceiling applicable to the Department 
The Commission and the Department of Health work closely together. The Department provides for all routine servicing of the Commission to avoid unnecessary duplication. Officers of the Department attend Commission meetings and members of the Commission have access to all branches and officers of the Department. This arrangement has efficiently facilitated the implementation of the Commission's Community Health Program and will apply to other programs sponsored by the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . (l)(a) Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
(a) Fremantle. 
The Committee was informed that there had been several recent occasions over week-ends when masters of vessels in port had allowed small quantities of garbage to be left standing uncollected on the wharves and the bins containing the garbage had either been overturned or the contents spilt, thus constituting a quarantine risk. It was recommended that ships' masters should be required to pour waste oil or disinfectant over the garbage to make it unattractive to birds and unsuitable for feeding to animals. It was also recommended that Quarantine Assistants should visit wharves daily (including week-ends and holidays), and arrange for collection by a Port Authority truck if garbage collection was overdue. These measures have been implemented. 
Perth Airport. 
The lack of an adequate incinerator at Perth Airport was seen by the Committee to constitute a serious quarantine deficiency. This deficiency has been a matter of increasing concern to my Department, and for some years it has recognised the need for the installation of a new incinerator that would be capable of destroying all galley refuse from overseas aircraft at the Airport. The incinerator has not yet been supplied and its provision is still under discussion. The Committee arranged that, until better incineration facilities are provided, the ashes remaining after usage of the present small inadequate incinerators should not be removed for burial until a Quarantine Assistant is satisfied that effective incineration has taken place and has authorised their removal. This supervision is now effective. 
The Committee further recommended that there should be two Quarantine Assistants to supervise collection of food scraps and refuse in the Qantas Kitchen at Perth Airport when refuse was being collected from an overseas 747 aircraft or when two overseas aircraft were being serviced at the same time. Hitherto one Quarantine Assistant was assigned this duty. The recommendation has been implemented. 
The Committee also considered that, because of the ease with which they are torn, plastic bags containing refuse should be placed in bins for storage and transfer to the incinerator. It was also recommended that, to make galley refuse unattractive for unauthorised removal, a disinfectant containing diluted phenols should be added to the waste. These measures are being carried out. 
Department of Health: Officers Engaged in Quarantine Duties (Question No. 1028) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Formerly consignments of imported brushes were released if they were accompanied by a satisfactory certificate of disinfection issued by the health authority of the country of origin. Since discovery of louse eggs on some brushware, consignments are also inspected and, if they contain louse eggs, delivery is withheld. The consignee is given the option of returning the brushes to the exporter or destroying them locally. Examinations of louse eggs have shown them to be sterile and incapable of transmitting disease. 
It is possible that some imported brushes containing louse eggs were sold to the public prior to the introduction of inspection on arrival. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes; ( b) Yes; (c) Yes 
HMAS Diamantina visited Ashmore Reef on 8 July 1974, following a report that Indonesian fishermen were living on the Reef. My Department received a signal from the vessel confirming that Indonesians were using the Reef as a base, that there were nine graves on the Reef, that there were present kegs of corn and also the head of a cow (about two weeks dead). 
My Department in liaison with the RAN sent a patrol boat to the area immediately. Included in the party were the Chief Quarantine Officer (Animals) and a Wild Life Officer, both stationed at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
When the patrol reached Ashmore Reef, the fishermen had left and there was no sign of plant or animal residues on the Reef. 
I understand that talks have been held and will be continued with the Indonesian Government on intrusions by fishermen into Australian waters and that a near continuous patrol system has already been introduced by the RAN to operate in the highest risk areas during the August to October and March to May periods when the majority of intrusions occur. Numerous vessels have already been escorted from Australian waters since the patrol system was commenced. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1714/15) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developmentsthis is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department of Science: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 440) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. 
No. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
(a) Training. 
The Departmental Committee concluded that better training would lead to improved confidence, motivation and performance among quarantine staff. Hitherto quarantine staff had received only on-the-job training. A formal training program on a national basis was subsequently instituted for all levels of quarantine personnel. Consideration is also being given to a further recommendation of the Committee that an in-service qualification- as distinct from the present Health Surveyor qualification- should be developed. 
Administration. 
The Committee was satisfied that the quarantine service for the Port of Fremantle and for Penh Airport is adequately staffed, and that most, if not all, of the matters that come to attention could be overcome by improved communication to and from the Penh office, by a speedier attention to matters of personnel concern, and by the introduction of a more positive training program. The recommended improvements have been initiated. An earlier instruction of the Director-General of Health that the responsibility for technical matters concerning quarantine should be transferred from the Assistant Director (Executive Services) to the Assistant Director ( Medical) is now fully effective. 
Safety Procedures. 
The Committee found that there was a failure for some years to have gas masks on issue to quarantine staff periodically checked by Defence Standards Laboratories as required in departmental instructions. These masks are used by personnel supervising fumigations. The Committee was informed that staff had, within the previous twelve months, been issued with new gas masks and that these masks will be tested regularly in the required manner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
315 dozen brushes were released in Sydney in 1972 and 1973 and 3,600 dozen brushes were released in Adelaide in the same years. 
The attention of all quarantine staff has been drawn to the improper entry of these brushes and to the need for strict conformity with import prohibitions prescribed in quarantine legislation. 
However, anthrax is the main disease entering into quarantine concern with shaving brushes and it is considered that the risk of human infection by this means is almost negligible. Anthrax already occurs in livestock in Australia. 
The quarantine legislation which prohibits imports of shaving brushes from many countries including China, is at present under review to take into account modern manufacturing technology methods which may have diminished the risk of anthrax transmission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. My Department has not initiated any action as the Western Australian State Health Authority has vaccinated Aboriginals at One Arm Point and Aboriginals on the central west coast who are employed as waterside workers. 
I would also mention that the World Health Organization has reported that Indonesia is free of smallpox. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the inquiry into quarantine in Western Australia dated March 1 974. Due to the limited number of copies of the report available at this time I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974, 1 present for the information of honourable members the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I believe the honourable member for Adelaide will be aware that it is Australian Labor Party policy to enter the field of prescription drug manufacture and, indeed, to widen the charter of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, which has remained for some decades restricted to production of biological products, products of living organisms. He will be further aware that the Government has approved moves to amend the relevant legislation and to bring in new legislation to enable government production of non-biological drugs. I am aware also that one of the major objects of this is to reduce the cost of drugs to the Australian taxpayer. I would point out that the Government has been adopting a much tougher line in negotiations with the drug manufacturers than did our predecessors. Australia had a reputation of being very soft and very easy on multi-national drug manufacturers because our prices in many cases were double the prices in other countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To exercise the Government's interests in the operations of any pharmaceutical company in which the Government acquires an interest, until the proposed Pharmaceutical Corporation is established, and to carry out preliminary planning for the Corporation. 
To date only one member has been appointed namely  Mr D.  G. Dunlop formerly of the Australian Department of Health. 
As foreshadowed by the Governor-General in his address to Parliament on its opening in July last, it is proposed to introduce legislation to establish a Pharmaceutical Corporation. Until the Government acquires an interest in any pharmaceutical company and further members of the Interim Committee are appointed, it is not expected that there will be a report. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to a publication of the Australian Dental Association entitled ' Facts and Figures 1 973 ', the estimated active dentist/population ratio at 31 December 1972 in each State and Territory was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attitude towards pressures for tax deductibility for ambulance subscriptions and charges is that, if support is needed for ambulance services, some direct form of assistance should be considered rather than the indirect assistance afforded by tax deductions with all their disadvantages. However, at the meeting of Health Ministers held in Canberra on 17 and 18 August 1974, all State Health Ministers urged that the Australian Government make ambulance subscriptions and charges tax deductible, and I undertook to take up this matter with the Treasurer. As the honourable member will be aware, no assistance in this regard was provided in this year's Budget. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission is currently examining the needs of ambulance services. 
There are psychiatric hostels in trouble all round Australia. They have been for many years. The system of subsidies adopted by different States varies. Sometimes different kinds of subsidies are paid to the one organisation from different departments of State. I am not familiar with the case which the honourable member has cited. If the States are in trouble they know that we are interested in solving these problems for them. Considerable amounts of money have been made available to States, under the community health program, largely- in fact almost entirely- in accordance with the States' own priorities, for many community health services, including health hostels. Also, record amounts of subsidy are available through the Department of Education for schools, in accordance with need, which also takes into account schools for the handicapped. No specific inquiry is being conducted by my Department into these kinds of institutions. However, the hospitals program for Australia envisages the setting of priorities by April next year for hospitals, nursing homes and health hostels in an integrated way. An amount of $28m has been set aside in this year's Budget as a small beginning to the upgrading of accommodation in all of these institutions throughout Australia on the basis of needs and priorities. 
All the recommendations of the report have been acted on promptly by my Department. The Department, of Transport and all others concerned were promptly informed and action will be taken to overcome this difficulty. In the meantime other arrangements have been made for the disposal of garbage to ensure that it is properly incinerated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
(a) The following ports at which overseas vessels call do not have an incinerator: 
Western Australia 
Barrow Island, Broome, Cape Cuvier, Carnarvon, Dampier, Derby, Esperance, Geraldton, Exmouth, Port Hedland, Port Walcott, Shark Bay, Wyndham, Yampi Sound. 
Northern Territory Gove, Milner Bay. 
New South Wales 
Eden, Port Kembla, Coffs Harbour, Trial Bay, Yamba and Goodwood Island, Ballina, Byron Bay, Newcastle. 
Tasmania Long Reach- East Tamar. 
The honourable member will be aware that the Government has announced a 5-year program of capital grants for the development of public hospitals in the States as recommended by the report on hospitals from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. In this year's Budget we have allocated $28m to launch the program. The program is based on joint initiatives and planning at regional, State and national levels. There will be joint hospitals works councils established in each State to advise on the processes by which priorities are set and by which expenditures are planned and the standards are met. Each joint council will consist of 3 representatives from the State and 3 representatives from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, one of whom will be nominated by my Department. The joint council will consider the total hospital program submitted by the State concerned. On the basis of that consideration the Commission will make recommendations to me concerning grants by the Australian Government for the State program. The Premier of Victoria has advised the Prime Minister that he accepts the principle of a joint works council for that State. I have recently written to the Victorian Minister of Health seeking his agreement to convene the first meeting of the joint council for Victoria. I have asked  Dr Sax  to raise at the first meeting of the joint hospitals works council for Victoria the matter of upgrading the facilities of the Dandenong and District Hospital. Indeed, although I was not aware of the figures cited by the honourable member, my preliminary information is that it does have top priority after the western suburbs region in Victoria. 
I would like to answer 2 points on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  Firstly it is important to realise that spending this year on social security as a whole has increased by 38.3 per cent. Although there have been glowing words of praise for the increase in expenditure from the other side of the chamber our information is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  if in power, would cut spending in this area. Criticism was made of the level of unemployment benefits received by a man with a wife and four or five children. The Minister has told me that a man in this position would receive $71.50 a week. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  alleged that there was no incentive for a man receiving this level of benefit to work. But this amount of benefit is still far below the minimum wage. I would like the honourable member to check his figures before coming in here and making the accusation that people receiving unemployment benefits do not have any incentive to work. I would like him to indicate how much lower than $71.50 a week he would like the unemployment benefit to be for a man with a wife and 4 children. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs asked me to upgrade quarantine services. I assure him that the department that I administer is the same department that administered quarantine under my predecessors. The same quarantine services, the same quarantine officers and the, same quarantine regulations apply today. These functions have been updated in accordance with World Health Organisation and international recommendations. For example, we have doubled the number of patrols that are watching the north-west of Australia which is one area of concern at the moment because of reports of landings by Indonesian fishermen. But these landings have been going on for something like 600 years and we are not the first government that has had this problem. However, we are the first government that has moved so rapidly to increase surveillance in that area. We have moved promptly to tighten quarantine requirements wherever there has been an increased hazard. For example, in the case of the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Bali we adopted a responsible attitude and responded promptly to all the criticisms, all the suggestions and all the information that has been put before us. In fact, we have engaged in a far greater campaign to inform the public of the requirements of quarantine in order to encourage the cooperation of the public than has ever happened before. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has accused us of not making copies or alternatively of not updating copies or supplying the latest printed versions of the report of the Hospital and Health Services Commission to certain people in the States. It appears that the States must be very coy and shy. Apparently they have told the honourable member that they have not received this information, but they have not told me. If they ask it shall be given. There are plenty of copies available. The honourable member can pick up some tonight and send them off. Alternatively, if he gives me the names and addresses of people who want this information I will arrange for it to be sent. Anyone who wants this material can ask for it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)   -I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 
Department of Labor and Immigration 
Proposed expenditure, $ 107,466,000. 
The Hospital and Health Services Commission and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are in close and cordial co-operation in discussions with the Alfred Hospital on this matter. If any decision is made, it will be announced. 
The question of special education facilities for exceptional children, whether they be handicapped or specially gifted children, exercised the mind of the Australian Labor Party for some years before it came into office. The Government Members Education Committee commissioned me to prepare a discussion paper for it, which I did on 9 May 1972, at a time when the Labor Party was in opposition. I pointed out then the need for at least double the output of teachers for slow learners, who comprise about 3 children in every 100- quite a small group when compared with the group we are discussing today. I also pointed out the need for generalists in special education, the need for specialists in education for the various categories of handicapped learners and gifted children, including slow learners, disturbed, maladjusted and autistic children, physically handicapped children in various categories, gifted children and specific learning defect sufferers and the culturally deprived, including migrants and Aboriginals. The committee of the parliamentary Labor Party in September 1972- again before the Labor Party was in government- made certain proposals on schools commissions, for which we had agitated for some years, to provide equality of opportunity, to investigate inequalities, to recommend programs, to advise the Government, to be the organ of intelligence and insight, to sponsor and conduct research into all aspects of education, and indeed into all aspects of child care and welfare, including the economic, mental and moral well being of children, to sponsor experimental schools and programs, to educate teachers, assist student teachers, foster in-service and continuing education, to consult pre-school authorities, town planners, pediatricians, child psychiatrists, to provide for child minding and pre-school centres and so on. I have no time to go into all the moves the Labor Party has made. 
It is well known that the Department of Education has made a $lm grant for handicapped children's training and other grants for teaching in this area. There are many fields of activity that the Government has sponsored. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a Press statement dealing with a study of communication disorders in children which has been approved by my Department. 
Press Statement by the Minister for Health,  Dr D.  N. Everingham 
STUDY OF COMMUNICATION DISORDERS IN CHILDREN 
A Health Department officer has been awarded an Australian Government Postgraduate Scholarship to study communication disorders in children. 
He is  Mr Phillip  Dermody a research psychologist with the Audiology Section of the National Acoustic Laboratories in Sydney. 

 Mr Dermody has commenced studies at North Western University in Evanston, Illinois, United States of America. He plans to spend 1 8 months with the Department of Speech studying for a Master of Arts degree. He already has a Bachelor of Arts degree with first-class honours in psychology from the University of Sydney. 
The Minister for Health,  Dr D.  N. Everingham, said  Mr Dermody  's study would be directly connected with the work of a new scientific group being established at the National Acoustic Laboratories, which will develop more detailed auditory testing procedures to detect children who have a learning difficulty. 
The particular children in whom  Mr Dermody  is interested generally have normal hearing sensitivity, but are unable to correctly recognise, distinguish or process sound in the usual way. 
Testing procedures will be aimed at early detection and diagnosis of these problems so that remedial treatment can be offered sooner, and to a greater number of children, than is possible at present. 
It is also anticipated that at least some of the testing procedures, when applied to deaf children seeking assistance under the Australian Government's hearing aid scheme, will provide additional information for hearing aid selection and use. 
Canberra, 27 August 1974. 
I thank the House. There are several excellent developments in this field that are relevant. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The restrictions on the advertising of pain-relieving preparations to be introduced by the Government are those agreed to, as part of a major proposal for the control of all advertising of therapeutic goods, by the Australian Health Ministers at their Conference in August 1974. A copy of the relevant document will be tabled. Advertisements for minor analgesics directed to the public will be subject to the general provisions in the proposal and, in addition, to the specific and more stringent provisions of Section 2.11. 
A firm date has not been set for applying the proposals to the prior censorship of advertisements to be transmitted on radio and television. One factor to be taken into account is the necessity to give the media and pharmaceutical industries adequate notice of the date, so that advertisements to replace those currently approved may be prepared and submitted to my Department for approval. Implementation of the controls over other forms of advertising subject to the jurisdiction of the Government will require new legislation, or amendment of existing legislation which will be initiated at the earliest opportunity The need to give industry adequate notice in this area will also be taken into account in setting the effective date for the legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) It was announced in the 1974-75 Budget that the Australian Government had considered the recommendations arising from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's Report on Hospitals in Australia and agreed to a five year program of capital assistance for the development of public hospital facilities in the States. For this purpose $28m will be provided in 1974-75. 
However, it was one of the cornerstones of the Hospitals Report that expenditure by the Australian and State Governments on hospital facilities should represent a joint initiative aimed at co-ordinated planning on a regional, State and Federal basis. It is proposed that Joint Hospitals Works Councils should be established in each State to set priorities and to plan expenditure. Each Joint Council will comprise representatives from the State and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and will consider the total public hospital development program for that State. On the basis of this consideration the Commission will make recommendations to me as Minister for Health concerning financial assistance to be offered to individual hospital projects. 
I would suggest that the Boddington Community Committee make representations to the Western Australian Government to have the proposed improvements to the Boddington Women's Hospital included in that State's Hospital Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Nursing Mothers' Association of Australia has advised me of their intention to make a submission to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for financial assistance under the Community Health Program. An application form was sent recently to assist the Association. However, their submission has not yet been received. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 3-5-1973; (b) 16-1-1974; (c) 23-1-1974. 
(a) Fire Wardens; (b) Computer Shift Workers; (c) Computer Shift Workers. 
(a) 20; (b) 10; (c) 10. 
(a) Lecture by Fire Brigade officers on fire precautions and evacuation drills; (b) Emergency evacuation of the computing centre; (c) as for (b) 
See the answer to Question 548 published on 19 September 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Australian Department of Health entitled 'Workshop on Aboriginal Medical Services; Albury, New South Wales, 5-7 July 1974'. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley has made representations to me concerning this matter. He will be aware of a Press release on the subject which pointed out that the siting was discussed by an all-Party committee of this House- the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. That Committee conducted extensive investigations of the proposal, including public hearings on 12 and 13 September last. The departments concerned gave evidence, as did other interested parties- for example, the Heidelberg City Council and the Yallambie Progress Association. It has been proposed, for example, that it could be sited on a less settled, less inhabited side of Tullamarine Airport, but the Committee had to consider things such as public road access, public transport and the distance from tertiary education institutions and also from the hospitals in Melbourne which use the products of the laboratory. I can assure those who have expressed concern about this siting that the danger will be even less than it is with the present siting of the laboratories in several different buildings situated around Melbourne. There will be no risk of any significant level. In fact, the risk will be of the order of thousands of times less than that recommended as permissible by world organisations, even to a person who stood continuously at the boundary fence of the new site day and night 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The prescribing of oral contraceptives is a contributing but not major factor in the delayed payment of pharmaceutical benefit claims. In 1973-74 pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions increased by 12.6 million or 16.9 per cent over the previous year. Oral contraceptives were responsible for 4.3 million of the additional prescriptions, or 34. 1 per cent of the overall increase. 
Yes. The matter was referred to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee which was not prepared to so recommend. 
A maximum quantity providing six months supply would place oral contraceptives out of step with other benefit items used continuously for the treatment of chronic diseases and conditions. Maximum quantities which would allow six months supply of a drug on the one occasion may result in increased hazard from accidental ingestion, particularly by children, increased deterioration due to storage under possibly sub-standard conditions for a longer period, and possible wastage of unused quantities of the larger amounts supplied. 
This proposal in relation to oral contraceptives would, on the basis of 1973-74 prescribing experience, result in a saving to patients of $3.42Sm but additional government expenditure of $1. 348m, presuming that all prescriptions for the maximum quantity and repeats would be replaced by prescriptions for the new maximum quantity. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to correct some anomalies in connection with the conditions of employment of staff of the River Murray Commission. An almost identical Bill was passed by this House in March this year but lapsed when the double dissolution occurred before it was debated in the Senate. Because the River Murray Waters Act preceded the Officers' Rights Declaration Act and the Superannuation Act, there have been problems in the application of those Acts to staff of the River Murray Commission. Furthermore, the Commission is not an agency of the Australian Government. 
The proposed amendments will ensure that members of the Australian Government services will not be disadvantaged if they obtain employment with the River Murray Commission, and will enable staff recruited by the Commission from other sources, who are not covered by superannuation elsewhere, to be covered by the Superannuation Act 1922-1973. In addition, under the Remuneration Act 1973, salaries of statutory officers are now to be determined by that Tribunal. Section 6 in the River Murray Waters Act is being amended accordingly, although under present conditions no salaries are payable to the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner. 
I would stress that this Bill deals with amendments to the River Murray Waters Act which refers only to the Australian Government, and does not affect the River Murray Waters Agreement in which the 3 River Murray States are also involved. In addition, I should mention that a good deal of thought is being given to much more extensive amendments to the River Murray administration, but these must be expected to take a good deal of time to develop, and in the meantime it is desired to correct existing anomalies in staff conditions. I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the house. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill concerns the provision of grants to the States over the financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76 for the measurement of the quality of surface and underground water resources. Following a recommendation by the Australian Water Resources Council, the Australian Government and the State Governments in 1964 adopted an accelerated program of surface and underground water investigations designed to improve knowledge of the rate of flow, the quantity and changes in quantity of Australia's water resources. This program has been most successful and is a good example of co-operation between the Australian Government and the various State Governments. It has now become apparent to the Water Resources Council that the present program would benefit greatly by the concurrent assessment of water quality. Thus, this Bill provides for an expansion in the program so as to include water quality assessment of both surface and underground water resources. The cost of such a program for each State was determined by that State. It is intended that the Australian Government's contribution to water quality assessment be in the form of a grant on a dollar for dollar basis with the States, up to specified limits. Within this framework, the total amounts of Australian Government finance that would be available to the States is $446,305 for surface water quality assessment and $361,600 for underground water quality assessment. In making the contribution of $807,905 the Australian Government is confident that the States will meet their commitments to the water quality assessment program so that the objectives endorsed by the Water Resources Council may be achieved. 
The proposed legislation does not, of course, cover the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory as it is expected that these will be provided for in appropriations for the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of the Capital Territory respectively. It was originally intended that these grants would be available to the States prior to the commencement of the 1974-75 financial year. However, due to unforeseen delays brought about by the election in May 1 974, the Bill has been held over until now. Despite this, the Australian Government has decided to make available the full amount requested by the States for the remainder of this financial year. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, which is in the form of amendments to the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Act 1973. Section 4 provides for an amendment to section 3 of the principal Act to set out the scope of the word Assessment' so that it now includes water quality measurement in addition to water quantity measurement. The Bill also amends the machinery provisions of the principal Act by altering the provisions for the submission of progress reports. Thus, it can be seen that sections 8 ( 1) (b) and 8(l)(c) allow the States an extra month in which to submit their reports. This is considered necessary due to the increase in the number of State departments that will be involved in collecting the extra data and also the increase in the data itself. Provisions for increases in the grants of financial assistance related to State expenditure is provided for by sections 9 and 10 which amend Schedules 1 and 2 of the principal Act. These increases in grants have been allocated between the States on the basis of thenown proposed programs. 
In order to implement a planned program in the water field for the conservation, development and proper management of Australia's water resources it is essential that a national water quality assessment program be implemented in conjunction with the present water quantity measurement program to provide the necessary basic data. The program of water quality assessment which forms the basis for this Act and in which all Governments in Australia will be participating has been devised with this end in view. Such a program was in fact envisaged in the water policy statement that the Minister for 
Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  released on 10 October 1973. I now have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a document entitled 'Proposed Requirements for the Advertising of Therapeutic Goods recommended by the National Theraputic Goods Committee' which the Australian Health Ministers at their August 1974 conference agreed to take back to their respective governments. 
Sitting suspended from 12.56 to 2.15 p.m. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley has made representations to me concerning this matter. He will be aware of a Press release on the subject which pointed out that the siting was discussed by an allParty committee of this House-the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. That Committee conducted extensive investigations of the proposal, including public hearings on 1 2 and 1 3 September last. The departments concerned gave evidence, as did other interested parties- for example, the Heidelberg City Council and the Yallambie Progress Association. It has been proposed, for example, that it could be sited on a less settled, less inhabited side of Tullamarine Airport, but the Committee had to consider things such as public road access, public transport and the distance from tertiary education institutions and also from the hospitals in Melbourne which use the products of the laboratory. I can assure those who have expressed concern about this siting that the danger will be even less than it is with the present siting of the laboratories in several different buildings situated around Melbourne. There will be no risk of any significant level. In fact, the risk will be of the order of thousands of times less than that recommended as permissible by world organisations, even to a person who stood continuously, at the boundary fence of the new site day and night. 
I return to the point that I made before about the siting. I believe that consideration could still be given to it. If evidence can be produced to the Minister about the re-siting of the laboratory, even at this late stage, then it ought to be looked at. I thank both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Housing and Construction, who moved the motion, for their consideration in delaying the moving of it until such time as the other matters which I brought forward have been properly considered. 
Finally, I would ask permission of the House to incorporate in Hansard paragraphs 55, 56 and 57, the section of the report relating to the proposed construction of an Australian radiation laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria, dealing with radiation, and also the recommendations and conclusions 1 to 8. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Co-operation and co-ordination on food testing exists between my Department and the Department of Science in that the Australian Government Analyst of that Department provides a total food analytical service for all Australian Government Departments. Typical of the service provided to my Department are the analyses being carried out at present by the Australian Government Analyst as part of the National Health and Medical Research Council's surveys on pesticide residues and metallic contaminations in foods and on the microbiological status of foods. Some determinations of mercury levels in fish are included in the former survey. 
Co-operation and co-ordination in this area exists between my Department and the State Departments of Health through the food committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council, particularly the Food Analysis (Reference) Sub-committee and the Food Microbiology (Reference) Sub-committee. 
There is no unnecessary duplication in food testing between my Department and any other Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Agricultural Council (on which the State Governments and the Australian Government are represented) adopted contingency plans to combat any outbreak of foot and mouth disease, blue tongue and Newcastle disease as follows:- 
Foot and mouth disease- at the 76th meeting of Council held in February 1970. 
Blue tongue and Newcastle disease- at its 82nd meeting held in August 1972. 
Copies of these plans can be made available on request from the Secretary of the Australian Agricultural Council, Australian Department of Agriculture. 
In relation to the disease rabies, a draft contingency plan has been considered by the Commonwealth and States  Veterinary  Committee of the Australian Agricultural Council and the Veterinary Public Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. The draft plan will be put before the full Councils shortly. 
Department of the Media: Civil Defence Exercises (Question No. 1139) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To set forth the measurement results referred to in part ( 1 ) of the question would involve several hundred tables each with its own explanatory notes. The honourable member is therefore referred to the measurement results set forth in the following publications for the period up to and including 1972: 
Strontium-90 in the Australian Environment During 1 964. W. Fletcher, W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. Sci. 28, 417-424 (1966) May. 
Concentration of Caesium- 137 in Australian Milk During 1964. R. J. L. Alsop, J. Bonnyman, D. W. Ream and J. Molina-Ramos. Australian J. Sd 28, 69-71 (1965) August. 
Strontium-90 in the Australian Environment During 1965. W. Fletcher, W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. Sci. 29, 319-325 (1967) March. 
Concentration of Caesium- 137 in Australian Milk during 1965. J. Bonnyman J. C. Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and D. K. B. Sewell. Australian J. SCi. 28, 411-412 (1966) May. 
Strontium-90 and Caesium-137 in Some Australian Drinking Water Supplies- 1961 to 1965. J. Bonnymar and J. Molina-Ramos. Australian J. SCi. 30, 171-172 (1967) November. 
Concentration of Caesium-137 in Australian Rainwater During 1964 and 1965. R. J. L. Alsop, J. Bonnyman J. 
Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and D. K. B. Sewell. Australian J. SCi. 28, 4 1 3-4 1 7 ( 1 966) May. 
Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France During July 1966. W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, 
J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Nature 212, 1562-164 (1966) December 31. 
Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from July to October 1966. W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. SCi. 29, 407-4 16 ( 1967 ) May. 
Iodine-131 Levels in Milk in Australia During the Period July-December 1966. J. Bonnyman and J. C. Duggleby. Australian J. Sci. 29, 402-406 (1967) May. 
A Report on the Meteorological Aspects of Radio-active Fallout over Australia from the 1966 Nuclear Tests at Muroroa Atoll. G. Trefry and F. Callus. Bureau of Meteorology Meteorological Study No. 17, (1968) September. 
Strontium-90 in the Australian Environment During 1966. W. Fletcher, W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. Sci. 30, 307-313 (1968) February. 
Concentrations of Caesium-137 in Rainwater and Milk in Australia During 1966. J. Bonnyman J. C. Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and I. C. Paterson. Australian J. Sci. 30, 3 13-3 16 (1968) February. 
Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia During June and July 1967. W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. Sci. 30, 2 1 7-222 ( 1 967) December. 
Iodine-131 Concentrations in Australian Milk Resulting from the 1967 French Nuclear Weapons Tests in Polynesia. J. Bonnyman and J. C. Duggleby. Australian J. SCi. 30, 223-226 (1967) December. 
The Concentrations of Radio-active Isotopes in the Australian Surface Air During the Period May 1965-December 1967. J. Bonnyman, J. C. Duggleby and J. Molina-Ramos. Technical Report CXRL/9 (1 968) October. 
Strontium-90 in the Australian Environment During 1967. W. Fletcher, W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. SCi. 31, 174-179 (1968) November. 
Concentrations of Caesium-137 in Rainwater and Milk in Australia During 1967. J. Bonnyman, J. C. Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and I. C. Paterson. Australian J. Sci. 3 1 . 180- 183 (1968) November. 
Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from July to September 1968. W. J. Gibbs, J. R. Moroney, D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. SCi. 3 1 , 383-388 (1969) May. 
Iodine-131 Concentrations in Australian Milk Resulting from the 1968 French Nuclear Weapons Tests in Polynesia. J. Bonnyman and J. C. Duggleby. Australian J. Sci. 3 1,389-392 (1969) May. 
Strontium-90 in the Australian Environment During 1968. W. J. Gibbs, W. K. Matthews, J. R. Moroney. D. J. Stevens and E. W. Titterton. Australian J. SCi. 32, 238-244(1969) December. 
Concentrations of Caesium-137 in Rainwater and Milk in Australia During 1968. J. Bonnyman, J. C. Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and I. C. Paterson. Australian J. Sci. 32, 244-248 (1969) December. 
Concentrations of Caesium-137 in Rainwater and Milk in Australia During 1969. J. Bonnyman J. C. Duggleby, J. Molina-Ramos and I. C. Paterson. Search I, 160-163 (1970) October. 
Strontium-90 and Caesium-137 in the Australian Environment During 1969 and Some Results for 1970. Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 2, May 1971. 
Fallout over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from May to August 1970. Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. I, February 1971. 
Strontium-90 and Caesium-137 in the Australian Environment During 1970 and Some Results for 1971. Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 4, September 1972. 
Fallout over Australian from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from June to August 1 97 1 . Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 3, December 1971. 
Fallout over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia During June and July 1972. Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 5, October 1972. 
If any of these publications is not available to the honourable member in the Parliamentary Library, my Department will be able to supply him with a copy should he so desire. 
Summaries of measurements of fall-out recorded by the Australian monitoring system in 1973 have been submitted to the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR). I understand that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will be tabling a copy of those measurements in the near future together with a copy of the measurements to date of fall-out recorded in 1974, which are also to be forwarded to UNSCEAR 
and (3) The questions which the honourable member has asked relate to the past 10 years. In that period, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States, all signatories to the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty of 1963, have not carried out any nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere. On the other hand, France has conducted such tests in Polynesia in 1966, 1967, 1968, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 and has conducted a further series of such tests in Polynesia this year. The People's Republic  or  China carried out nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere, over the mainland, in each year from 1964to 1974. 
There are no simple means for identifying the radio-active components of fall-out with the country conducting the nuclear test However, complex analysis of the data obtained from the Australian Government fall-out monitoring programs and of data published by other countries permit an apportionment of the radio-active materials deposited on 
Australian Territory to be made between the various countries which have carried out nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere. 
The following Table gives the apportionment of the shortlived radio-active materials (typified by iodine-131 ) and of the long-lived radio-active materials (typified by stron-tium-90 and caesium- 137) deposited on Australian Territory in each year for the 10 year period 1964 to 1973 inclusive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  No. However in  1973  the Cities Commission engaged the consultants, Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey to carry out a study with the aim of ensuring that existing quality of the River Murray is not deleteriously affected by the Albury/Wodonga growth centre but is maintained for both the various human requirements, and for the riverine ecology. It can be confidently predicted that as a result of the study, waste and sewage treatment and urban drainage systems will be implemented such that the Albury/Wodonga growth centre will not have any significant adverse effects on water quality in the River Murray. 
Water quality monitoring of the River Murray is the responsibility of the relevant State Governments. However, the honourable member will also be aware that in the recent budget an amount of  $332,000  was allocated to the States as the first pan of a two-year water quality monitoring program. As well the Water Quality Committee of the River Murray Working Party has been asked to submit recommendations as to the location and nature of a comprehensive monitoring network for the River Murray. The report of this Committee is expected towards the end of the year and is also expected to make certain recommendations as to the administrative arrangements for the carrying out of this monitoring. 
See  (2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 1033. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 1033. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 1033. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 1033. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the submissions from the West Arthur, Murray, Ravensthorpe, Lake Grace and Kent Community Committees to the Southern Region Social Development Board for assistance under the Australian Assistance Plan concerns a health service, they were referred to my Department by the Department of Social Security to ascertain if financial assistance could be granted under any existing health program. 
The Department of Social Security has been advised that, although the Hospitals and Health Services Commission is investigating health transport services with a view to making recommendations which could include proposals for the orderly funding of such services, no funds are available in 1 974-75 for providing the assistance requested. 
The proposals will now no doubt be looked at in the context of a range of competing claims for assistance under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Murray-Drakesbrook St John Ambulance Sub-centre  (Question No. 1035) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New and improved methods of processing chemists' claims are being introduced. The phased introduction of new equipment and the new processing procedures is well advancd and the associated benefits are being progressively realised. A substantial increase in the number of prescriptions per claim over recent months has delayed the payment of chemists' claims, particularly in New South Wales. As from 4 November 1974 a system of part-payment of chemists' claims has been introduced, as an interim measure, to alleviate the situation in that State. The system provides for chemists who request such payments to receive a payment soon after lodgement of the claim. The pan-payment system should not cause any increase in the time taken to pay the balance of the claim. 
The improvements to the system of processing of claims and the new equipment should overcome the backlog of claims, it is expected that the existing backlog in New South Wales will have been cleared by the end of January 1975. 
When the backlog of claims is overcome the system of pan-payment of claims will be discontinued. 
The average number of days taken to process chemists 'claims in May and August 1974 were- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) The following areas of the Department of Health are involved in activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian standard insulin syringe (AS T29) was approved on behalf of the Council of the Standards Association of Australia in 1963 and revised in 1968. Because of criticism of the standard, the Association's Committee MD/2- Hypodermic Equipment for Insulin Injection, in December 1973, undertook a survey, in the form of a questionnaire posted to a comprehensive range of interested bodies throughout Australia, regarding a review of existing standards. The results of the Survey were presented to a meeting of Committee MD/2, held in May 1974 to consider the standard. The Committee, which includes representatives of the Diabetes Federation of Australia, the Australian Diabetes Society, the Australian Medical Association and physicians in charge of diabetic clinics resolved not to alter the present Australian standard insulin syringe (AS T29). 
The AS T29 is a re-usable syringe which must be sterilised before use. Insulin dependent diabetics in their own homes normally boil the re-usable syringe to ensure sterility. 
The equivalent to the AS T29 in a disposable syringe is the single use syringe (sterile) for insulin injection (AS 1077) which was approved on behalf of the Council of the Standards Association of Australia in 1973. Because of cost advantages, disposable single use. syringes and disposable needles have been introduced into Australian hospitals where new diabetics are trained to use them. Because of their practical advantages, the demand for single use syringes and needles by insulin dependent diabetics is increasing. 
The Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances is currently examining insulin syringes and needles with a view to recommending that they be made available to insulin dependent diabetics. However, it is important that before such a recommendation is made, appropriate standards for both single use and re-usable insulin syringes and needles be agreed to for adoption as official Australian standards under the Therapeutic Goods Act. It will then be possible to ensure that all insulin syringes and needles imported into Australia, as well as those manufactured locally, will conform to the standards laid down. An investigation of standards for this purpose is at present being undertaken in the Department of Health. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Several such requests have been received. 
The matter has been discussed by the National Health and Medical Research Council which has recommended that the name of the disease be changed to Australian arbo encephalitis.  1  have accepted this recommendation. The change has now been referred to the World Health Organization for consideration. 
Port Augusta, South Australia: Establishment of Office of the Department of Social Security  (Question No.  1514) 
As the honourable member will be aware, every effort has been made since the introduction of the Budget last year to get the Queensland Government moving on planning for a major hospital complex in the outer suburbs of Brisbane, which is the city in Australia with the most centralised hospital service of all. 1 believe the largest hospital in the Southern Hemisphere is the Royal Brisbane Hospital and this centralisation causes severe disabilities to people in the outer suburbs, particularly the southern and western areas of Brisbane. However, we have now managed to get the agreement of all States to the establishment of joint works councils to look at hospital building priorities. 

 Dr Cass, on my behalf, informed  Mr Tooth  on 29 November 1974 that the Government had approved an initial grant of $5. 151m for this financial year under the development program for Australian hospitals and that this would be devoted to the program of public hospital works submitted by the Queensland Health Department on the priorities the State nominated. The redevelopment of the Mater Misericordiae Hospital was raised at this joint works council and discussions centred on the possibility of splitting funds between the Mater Hill project and providing up to 200 beds at Inala. 
I can understand that the honourable member, who went very close to losing his seat to Brisbane's Lord Mayor, does not want to hear the answer but I am going to give it. I am reading from the original letter that was sent by  Dr Cass  on my behalf to  Mr Tooth  and if honourable members want it, I shall table it. At the same time  Dr Cass  released a statement which gave some details of that funding. Over $lm of it is to go to psychiatric facilities; for example, accommodation for the intellectually handicapped at Wolstan Park in Brisbane, at the Baillie Henderson Hospital in Toowoomba and at Rockhampton Hospital. 
The only bellyaching I do is about the obstruction of the States regarding the money that the Australian Government has offered to them, which they have not yet spent. I can understand that the Country Party does not want to hear about this because of the delays by the Bielke-Peterson Government in spending money- several millions- that the Federal Government has offered to it. There will be well over $2. 5m allocated for the planning of hospital projects, including the Mount Gravatt Hospital, the medical block at Toowoomba Hospital and the new block at the Atherton Hospital. We have asked for the State's views on the siting of the Mount Gravatt Hospital, where we are prepared to make available a better block of land than the State has got. The ball is now in the court of the Queensland Government. We are prepared to co-operate with it in all respects to get this project off the ground, a project which it has been promising at about 3 elections without anything being done. 
It is true that previously there has not been a national survey of health manpower. The committee is at the moment editing its proposed report, which will be its first report. It presume that it will be a continuing committee and that this will not be its final report. The committee has assured me that the initial report will be available before the next session- in other words, I assume, early in February. The report should provide information not only to the professional groups who are awaiting the report but also to bodies like the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the State governments and others who have to plan education, training and manpower in the health field. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  1 refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
Specialists in Work Assessment and Rehabilitation  (Question No. 1617) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to questions No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who has just spoken, referred to a joint works council in Queensland which I mentioned and which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  mentioned. The honourable member said there is no such organisation. 
I have with me a letter from the Queensland Minister for Health dated 3 December from which I quote in part. It states: 
At the outset, let me say that there appears to be some misapprehension concerning 'the recent meeting of the Joint Hospitals Works Council for Queensland '. At this point in time, no such Council has been formed. Indeed, officers of this Department could not be a party to such Council without the prior approval of Cabinet 
It further states: 
Discussions did take place between officers of the Department and the  chairman  and other representatives of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission, concerning this State's forward planning program for hospitals and institutions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that four new nursing care wards were opened at the Mount Royal Hospital in 1 973. 
and (3) No finance was provided for the construction of these wards under the legislation administered by my Department. (4 to 8) This information is not available in my Department. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question no. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question no. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question no. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1601. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Home nursing services are provided in most areas of Australia. In 1972-73, the latest year for which figures are available, home nursing organisations made over 3 million visits to treat patients in their homes. As at 31 March 1974, there were in excess of 28,000 patients registered with home nursing organisations. 
The Government meets all costs associated with the services provided in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. In the Northern Territory, nurses of the Rural Health Division provide home nursing care from a mobile service based in Darwin and from a number of health centres and sub-centres. In 1973-74 these nurses made 155,000 visits to patients in their homes and travelled over 140,000 miles. The total cost of the service was $22 1 , 274. 
In the Australian Capital Territory in the same period, nurses attached to the District Nursing Service and to health centres made approximately 38,000 home visits. The total cost of $202,374 includes services provided by these nurses within health centres. 
The Government also provides a subsidy to District Nursing Services in the States under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act 1956-1973. The following is a list of approved district nursing organisations and, where applicable, the amount of subsidy paid to each organisation during the financial year 1973-74. Total subsidy paid under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act in this period was $3,390, 1 46. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yogyakarta Wonosobo, Denpasar. 
No. 
Mt Isa, Darwin, Yoygakarta, Denpasar, Alice Springs, Sydney, Canberra. 
Foot and Mouth Disease is known to exist on the islands of Bali and Java. 
On landing in Alice Springs the aircraft was sprayed and an officer of the Department of Health asked each member of the party if they had visited any farming areas or meat works or saleyards. He was told by each member of the party that they had not. 
Baggage clearance was carried out in Canberra where artefacts were inspected and other  quarantinable material detained for fumigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1 1 December 1973 (the date State Education Ministers were advised of the Government's decision that no funds would be made available for the 1974 School Year), and 31 October 1974, my Department received 243 requests for the restoration of school milk from school and pre-school bodies, one from a State Minister for Health, one from a State Minister for Education and two from State Ministers for Agriculture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The evaluation of progestogen only oral contraceptives containing low doses of norethisterone or d-norgestrel has been proceeding in my Department for some time and the results of the evaluations were recently considered by the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. 
Following upon a recommendation from this Committee, approval has been granted for the marketing of low dosage progestogen only oral contraceptive formulations containing norethisterone. No recommendation for marketing has yet been received from the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee concerning formulations containing only d-norgestrel. I understand that further scientific data have been requested on low dosage formulations of d-norgestrel. 
I am advised that the oral contraceptives currently available on the Australian market may decrease the amount of maternal milk for breast feeding mothers. However, evidence so far presented to my Department has been insufficient to support a claim that low dosage progestogen only oral contraceptives are free of this side-effect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The infant mortality rate for Aboriginals (deaths in the first year of life per 1,000 live births) in the Northern Territory was- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has no specific role in the development of Albury/Wodonga and other growth centres. However, the Department and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission are approached for advice in relation to health matters by authorities undertaking investigations of potential and possible growth centres. In the case of Albury/Wodonga, the Department of Health and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission are funding and participating in a health planning team which was established early this year to prepare guidelines for the planning of health services for the Albury/Wodonga Growth Centre. 
Murray River: De-snagging Operations (Question No. 1211) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australian Government assistance for the redevelopment of Launceston General Hospital and for the construction of a new women's hospital in Hobart have been the subject of correspondence between the Tasmanian Minister for Health, Social Welfare and Road Safety and myself. 
Further consideration of assistance for these two projects will take place when the Hospitals Development Program is discussed with the Tasmanian Authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 28 October 1974, the following officers and employees were engaged on quarantine duties in my Department in Western Australia: 

 Dr J. B. Mathieson, Director (W.A. Division) age 62, service 36 years. 1 938-48 Medical Officer and Quarantine Officer, Sydney, Perth and Canberra; 195 1 Acting  Deputy  Director, Queensland; 1953 N.T.; 1957-64 Director, W.A.; 1968 First Assistant Director-General, Laboratory Services and Quarantine Division; 1968-74 Director, W.A. 

 Dr W. J. Wilmot, Assistant Director (Medical) age 52, service this Division 1 year 7 months. 1964-68 Quarantine Officer, Northern Territory; 1960-64 part-time Quarantine Officer Broome, W.A. 

 Dr L. M. Mogyorosy, Medical Officer Class 1 age 56, service 8V6 years as Quarantine Officer Fremantle and Perth Airport. 

 Dr A. Brazowski, Medical Officer Class 1 age 56, service 4 years 2 months as Quarantine Officer Fremantle and Perth Airport. 

 Dr F. S. Cozens, Medical Officer Class 1 age 50, service 2 years 10 months as Quarantine Officer Fremantle and Perth Airport. 1970 part-time Quarantine Officer Yampi Sound. 

 Dr M. C. Thong, Medical Officer Class 1 age 42, service 12 months as Quarantine Officer Fremantle and Perth Airport. 

 Dr C. R. B. Bamford, Medical Officer Class 1 age 44, service 1 year 8 months as Quarantine Officer Fremantle and Perth Airport. 

 Mr W. F. Toomer, Quarantine Inspector age 39, service 6 years. 1968-72 Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 Geelong, Victoria; 1972-73 Quarantine Inspector Fremantle; 1973-74 Senior Quarantine Inspector Perth Office. 

 Mr N. M. Brogan, Quarantine Inspector age 25, service 1 year 1 1 months as Quarantine Inspector Port Hedland. 

 Mr D. Caunt, Quarantine Inspector age 41, service 1 year 4 months as Quarantine Inspector South-West Ports and Fremantle. 

 Mr W. F. Robson, Quarantine Assistant Grade 4 age 55, service  12'A  years as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1,3, and 4 Fremantle. 

 Mr J. C. J. Poore, Quarantine Assistant Grade 4 age 48, service 1414 years as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1,2 and 4 Fremantle. 

 Mr G. A. D. Marsh, Quarantine Assistant Grade 4 age 54, service  23'A  years. 1951-59 Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 2 Woodman Point General Quarantine Station; 1959-63 Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 Animal Quarantine Station Bicton; 1963-74 Foreman Assistant and Quarantine Assistant Grade 4 Woodman Point General Quarantine Station. 

 Mr R. N. Taylor, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 46, service 22 W years. 1 952-63 Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 2 Woodman Point General Quarantine Station; 1963-74 Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 Animal Quarantine Station Bicton. 

 Mr A. M. M. Kessels, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 49, service  2'A  years as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 3 Fremantle. 

 Mr R. H. Dine, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 50, service 2 years 2 months as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 3 Fremantle; 1958-61 prior service Fremantle as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1. 

 Mr G. Cornish, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 30, service 3 years 9 months. 1971-73 Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Animal Quarantine Station, Bicton; 1973-74 Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 Fremantle. 

 Mr P. H. Burrowes, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 45, service 8 years as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1, 2 and 3 Fremantle. 

 Mr P. H. Watson, Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 age 27, service 8 years 4 months. 1966-73 Quarantine Assistant Grade I Portsea General Quarantine Station; 1973-74 Quarantine Assistant Grades 2 and 3 Fremantle. 

 Mr H. W. Harrison, Quarantine Assistant Grade 2 age 63, service II years 3 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 2 General Quarantine Station Woodman Point. 

 Mr J. Scully, Quarantine Assistant Grade 2 age 43, service 1 year 9 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 (Temporary) Woodman Point General Quarantine Station and 5 months Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 2 Fremantle. 

 Mr W. L. J. Pascoe, Quarantine Assistant Grade 2 age 26, service 1 year 4 months as Quarantine Assistant Grades 1 and 2 Fremantle. 

 Mr W. J. Trezise, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 54, service 8 years 9 months. 1966-68 Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Bicton Animal Quarantine Station; 1969-73 Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Fremantle; 1973-74 Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Quarantine Station Woodman Point. 

 Mr W. A. McLaren, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 57, service 7 years 4 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 General Quarantine Station Woodman Point. 

 Mr J. A. Smith, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 56, service 6 years as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 General Quarantine Station Woodman Point. 

 Mr T. G. Clucas, Quarantine Assistant Grade I age 52, service 5 years 9 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Animal Quarantine Station Bicton. 

 Mr J. B. Trezise, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 23, service 1 year 2 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Animal Quarantine Station Bicton. 

 Mr A. Morley, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 22, service 1 year 2 months as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Fremantle and relief at Animal Quarantine Station Bicton for short periods. 

 Mr G. G. Osborne, Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 age 31, service 1 year 1 month as Quarantine Assistant Grade 1 Fremantle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) My Department and the National Health and Medical Research Council keep all aspects of fluoridation under review. 
The fluoridation of Canberra's water supply was commenced in September 1964, and the dental health of children who have lived in Canberra since fluoridation commenced is assessed annually. The Table below shows the progressive improvement in the dental condition of children aged six to twelve years. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Health are distributed from the Public Relations Section of the Department of Health by hand to the Press Gallery, by mail to individuals and organisations throughout Australia, and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of the Minister for Health 's press statements, and this list is frequently changed. Other copies of press statements are distributed in response to people requesting them on a casual basis, or in answer to specific queries. Broadly, however, statements are issued to all Members and Senators, media organisations, Government Departments, Embassies, political party organisations, business organisations, specialist medical organisations, libraries and individuals from whom requests are received. 
Approximately 650 copies of statements are regularly circulated. 
The cost of producing and distributing press releases for the Minister for Health is included in costs relating to salaries and administration of the Department of Health. The costs attributable to ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
Two, who are responsible for departmental press statements, media liaison and other publicity functions. 
Australian Public Service: Recruitment Wastage Rates  (Question No. 1667)  Mr Snedden  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the wastage rate for graduates recruited to base grade positions in the third division of the Public Service in each of the last 10 years. 
What has been the comparative wastage rate of nongraduate recruits to the third division in each of the last 10 years 
Can he say how these wastage rates compared with similar recruitments in private industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of deaths in the Australian Capital Territory resulting from suicide in the most recent Causes of Death publications of the Australian Bureau of Statistics is 6.2 per 100,000 persons in 1971 and 5.1 per 100,000 persons in 1972. 
The statistics of deaths by cause of death are not available for capital cities but are available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics on a State basis, and for comparison purposes the deaths in 1971 and 1972 recorded as suicide are shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 30 milligrams, the average dose of 2 tablets providing 60 milligrams. 
(a) 75 milligrams. 
100 milligrams in percolated coffee, 75 milligrams in instant coffee. 
22 milligrams are permitted in 1 50 millilitres, the volume of an average size cup. 
Yes. Motivations to consume caffeine include physical tolerance or dependence and the accompanying withdrawal symptoms acquired by habituation to tea, coffee and analgesics compounded with caffeine. This dependence is undesirable because of the high incidence of kidney failure, peptic ulcer and other complications of excessive consumption of over-the-counter analgesics. Such risks are minimal or absent in the cases of the three beverages referred to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The major portion of Australian Government funds for medical research is made through the Medical Research Endowment Fund on the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council. The amount of funds provided through the Medical Research Endowment Fund for cancer research has been increased, viz.- 
The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No decision has yet been made to establish a medical school at the Australian National University, but the medical specialists who have been offered salaried appointment, are of the high standard required to meet the requirements of a medical faculty. The Australian National University was closely involved with the Canberra Hospitals Board in the selection process. 
A feasibility study is presently being undertaken by the Australian National University concerning the establishment of a medical school. A date for the establishment of a medical school cannot be forecast at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Canberra Hospitals Management Board. 
As at 5 December 1974, eighteen specialists have been offered appointment, of whom eleven are Australians living in Australia, three are Australians presently in positions overseas, three are British and one is a New Zealander currently living in Britain. These figures do not include specialists currently employed by A.C.T. Health Services and the Canberra and Woden Valley Hospitals. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to ( 1 1 ) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1 974, page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (10) Basic information on health manpower is to be provided in a single public reference document scheduled for publication by my Department in early 1975. Estimates of future manpower requirements in the health services will be canvassed in a report from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission also to be issued in early 1975. I would also draw the right honourable member's attention to the fact that this Government is the first in Australia's history, and one of the first in the world, to set up a committee on health careers, personnel and training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information relates not only to projects specifically described as "community health centres" but also to other forms of community health projects involving the provision of preventive, diagnostic thereapeutic or rehabilitation services at or from premises or, in some cases, mobile units, on a non-residential basis. 
The information, which was compiled in association with State health authorities, applies to projects fully or partly operational as at November 1 974. 
Details of New South Wales projects which were established prior to the introduction of the Australian Government Community Health Program and Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program and which are not currently funded under either of those Programs, are not yet finalised but will be forwarded to the honourable member as soon as they become available. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The annual Health Ministers' Conference holds discussions and makes recommendations on health matters in which the co-operation of the Australian Government and State Governments is required. The Conference first met in 1966 and in the last two years has met on 12-13 April 1973 and 17- 18 August 1974; 
At this Conference in 1970 the Ministers established the Hospitals and Allied Services Advisory Council to advise them on the use of computers in the hospital and allied services field; planning of, and equipment for, hospitals; problems in the hospital and allied services field arising from the accreditation requirements of postgraduate medical training authorities; research into the administration of hospital and allied services; uniform costing in hospital and allied services. 
The Advisory Council consists of the Chief Officers and Senior Administrative Officers of the State Health and Hospitals Departments or Commissions and of the Australian Government Departments of Health and Social Security. 
In the last two years the Advisory Council has met on: 5 July 1972 1-2 March 1973 13- 14 September 1973 7-8 March 1974 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of school children who completed courses of free dental treatment in 1973/74 as a result of Australian Government funds were 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories has had an inspection carried out by the Chief Inspector, National Biological Standards Laboratory in accordance with the Code of Good Manufacturing Practice on six occasions during the last three years. 
The dates of these inspections were: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2)- 
Grants Provided by the National Health and Medical Research Council 
Details of grants provided in the last three years under the Medical Research Endowment Act can be found in the last two annual reports of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and in the report of the Seventy-seventh Session of the National Health and Medical Research Council. Details of other research grants are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Depending on Government priorities, the legislation is expected to be introduced in the autumn 1975 sittings of Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given to Question No. 1862 by my colleague, the Special Minister of State, in the Daily Hansard, S December 1974 (in continuation) at page 4841. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Drugs are normally evaluated in order of receipt of a properly documented submission prepared in accordance with guidelines laid down following discussions between the Australian Depanment of Health and organisations representing the pharmaceutical industry. 
Priority is given in the following instances: 
in respect of clinical trial applications for use in individual cases for the urgent treatment of seriously ill patients; 
in respect of general marketing applications, where, in the view of the Austraiian Drug Evaluation Committee, together with senior officers of the Australian Department of Health, the drug appears to represent a major therapeutic advance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 26 August 1974 a new Drug Evaluation Section was created within the Therapeutics Division of the Australian Department of Health to undertake evaluations of drug submissions for clinical trial or general marketing. The Department is currently recruiting pharmacologists, medical officers and advisors in clinical pharmacology to fill the new positions. 
It is expected that with the filling of these positions and the current re-appraisal of procedures in relation to the handling of new drug applications, the evaluation of these drugs will be accelerated. Some of the new procedures in relation to the processing of clinical trial applications have been explained to the pharmaceutical industry and been well received. 
As an immediate step to accelerate evaluation of new drugs, experts outside the Public Service are being used on a contractual basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the press reports. These refer to experimental work in Western Australia to determine levels of mercury which could result in poultry from atypical feeding with feed containing unusually high levels of whale meal. 
The reports are substantially correct but they do not refer to products normally entering commercial channels. 
Investigations by the relevant authorities in Western Australia have revealed no indication of products on the local markets containing mercury levels higher than those recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
(a) There have been no formal submissions to the  Chairman  of the Metallic Contamination of Seafoods Sub-committee. Information has, however, been given to the Sub-committee to indicate the results of the above experiments. 
There is no evidence to support the contention that critical levels of mercury are present in any persons who have eaten foodstuffs from animals fed on whale meal. 
The mercury levels in exported whale solubles are similar to those in whale solubles used as protein supplements for Australian livestock without hazard to human health. 
Approximately 4000 tonnes of whale meal and whale solubles are supplied to stock feed manufacturers yearly in Australia. This represents less than 2 per cent of the protein-rich concentrates from all sources used for stock feed manufacture. 
Action is not required to remove whale meal and whale solubles from feed additives in view of the fact that the only products for human consumption found to contain high levels of mercury result from experimental conditions, including altered feeding practices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No. The ship Dianna Clausen was boarded by Animal Quarantine Officers who reported no hay seen on board. Normal fumigation practices were carried out and 140 clean pallets were landed under quarantine control for steam sterilisation. 
Animal Quarantine Officers meet all such vessels on arrival and do not permit the landing of any prohibited materials such as hay. 
Briefly, let me say in reply to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  that these matters are under consideration by my Government and by the States concerned. The security of dangerous drugs is the main consideration which exercised the minds of Ministers for Health in their conference when they discussed this matter earlier in the year, and no doubt they will be discussing it again at their meeting in April this year. I am concerned, as we all are, about the need to provide adequate supplies of essential drugs, whether they be dangerous or not, and about the need to restore or to preserve employment. But the overriding consideration is that we should not add to the world problem of drug abuse. This is the overriding consideration which determined the decision that has so far restricted the growing of opium poppies to non-mainland areas. 
While it is true that there are many useful products of the opium family, in every case there are alternatives. So even if there were an absolute shortage of opium derived drugs and doctors were not able from time to time to obtain the supplies that they prescribe, the situation could not be seen as a major tragedy because there are effective alternatives such as the pethidine family. We should not rush into the position of just making up a shortage of that kind in the light of the very grave and growing world problem of containing these drugs and securing them from the illicit drug traffic which is a growing problem in all countries, not least in our own. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Many of the staff in my Department and in Authorities under my control are engaged from time to time on work which might be classified generally as 'research and development'. This work can relate to scientific programs as in the Australian Radiation Laboratory, National Acoustic Laboratories, Australian Dental Standards Laboratory, National Biological Standards Laboratory, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Institute of Child Health and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission or to overall departmental policy formulation in relation to, for example, health delivery systems. Those officers who have a designation specifying research, i.e. Research Officer or Research Medical Officer, are to a very large degree engaged in research pursuits. Others, though having other designations, are also engaged to a more or less degree in research. Where the designations 'Research Officer' and 'Research Medical Officer' are used the following information can be provided: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twenty-seven laboratories in Australia have performed evaluations for the Australian Radiation Laboratory of my Department on in vitro radioisotopic kits of potential diagnostic value. Not all these laboratories evaluated every in vitro kit. 
The institutional and private medical laboratories which have undertaken evaluations referred to in (1) are listed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Expenditure on advertising, in relation to the National Warning Against Smoking, over the financial years 1972-73 and 1973-74 has been- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Courses in audiology are offered by the University of Melbourne (Post Graduate Diploma of Audiology), Macquarie University in Sydney (Master of Arts in Audiology) and Queensland University (Bachelor of Speech Therapy with Honours). In addition to these courses, which are regarded as preparing professional audiologists, courses in audiology are given in other institutions at an undergraduate level and these are regarded as providing background information for professionals in other areas such as speech therapy or education of the deaf. The institutions which offer courses of this nature are the Lincoln Institute in Melbourne in their Bachelor of Applied Science (Speech Science), the Training School for Teachers of the Deaf in Victoria and the University of Queensland in their Bachelor of Speech Therapy pass degree, the Speech Therapy School of Paramedical Studies in Sydney, the Nepean College of Advanced Education (teacher of the deaf course) and Flinders University in South Australia in the Degree of Bachelor of Applied Science in Speech and Hearing. 
In addition to these organisations, I would point out that the National Acoustic Laboratories have for many years provided audiology courses for graduates who will work within the organisation. In fact the National Acoustic Laboratories were, until recently, the only source of training in audiology in this country and still provide the training for the bulk of those working in the field. Most audiologists currently employed outside the National Acoustic Laboratories have received their basic training under the Laboratories' programme. Persons entering the Laboratories' training programs have, up until now, had as a minimum entry qualification a university degree with a major in psychology although moves are afoot to broaden the entry qualifications to include graduates in other areas. 
Courses in audiometry are offered at Sydney Technical College and at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. These courses in the main have been directed towards persons employed in the hearing aid sales industry, although a number of other people have also attended. 
At present the number of graduates in audiology from the university courses is not adequate for Australia's needs but I must point out that the first graduates available from the Melbourne diploma course have just completed the diploma and the first graduates will not be available from Macquarie University until late 1976 at the earliest. Those graduates who are trained in the National Acoustic Laboratories meet the needs of the Laboratories. 
The number of audiometrists coming from the two courses listed cannot be evaluated in terms of requirement as most positions other than those in the National Acoustic Laboratories, and those specifically designated audiologists, do not have specific entry requirements. Persons employed as audiometrists in the National Acoustic Laboratories receive in-service training. 
The National Acoustic Laboratories at 17 January 1975 employed 76 professional staff engaged in clinical audiology and audiological research and 14 audiometrists Staff in these categories are formally designated as Psychologists and Assistants (Audiometry) at present, although the continued use of the Psychologist designation in this field is currently under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The already established reporting system operating along the northern coastline of Australia is being reviewed. This has been done on a number of occasions in the past under the previous Government, since changes in population movements and the development of previously isolated areas often necessitate a different approach being taken to the location of coast watchers. It is particularly important to ensure that observers are so placed as to give early warning of possible movement of people and livestock into Australia, having regard to population movements and changes in disease status in territories north of Australia. The Departments of Customs and Excise, Defence, my own Department, and the Department of the Northern Territory, as well as the Governments of Western Australia and Queensland, actively participate in the operation of this scheme. The system has been successful in giving early warning of the landings of boats which have brought food waste and live animals to this country, and it is intended to develop the organisation in such a manner as will maintain a successful coastwatch despite the increasing number of foreign fishing vessels approaching the coast. 
It has been customary, under previous Governments, as well as under the present Government, for quarantine requirements for importation of materials or goods, which may have been in contact with animals or animal products, to be reviewed to ensure adequate disease safety. This is now particularly stressed in view of the increase in imports from countries in which diseases exotic to Australia may be present. The increasingly severe quarantine restrictions are exemplified by a prohibition on importation of glue pieces from foot and mouth disease countries unless they are limed or treated in an approved manner prior to shipment. Because of the continued occurrence of swine vesicular disease in the United Kingdom, importation of pigs and pig semen from that country has not been permitted. In view of the risks of introducing rabies, dogs imported into the United Kingdom for transhipment to Australia are now obliged to remain in that country for 12 months prior to shipment. There is also a total prohibition on importation of poultry meat and eggs from New Zealand because that country has imported poultry under conditions of disease testing and certification which would not be considered adequate for imports to Australia. 
The previous Government imposed foot and mouth disease precautions on incoming passengers, principally because of outbreaks of foot and mouth disease in northern 
Europe. However, it has been found necessary to critically examine these precautions and to extend their scope to ensure that travellers from other areas in which the disease occurs receive special attention. As a result, passengers from the Channel Islands, Bali, France and Holland have also been subject to these precautions, namely a requirement to fill in a check list of questions concerning contact with animals and, where the replies warrant it, to submit footwear for inspection and, in case of frank soiling by animal discharges or excreta, for mechanical cleansing. 
The control of disposal of swill for feeding to pigs is a matter for State and local authorities concerned, except in the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory where the Australian Government is responsible. However, I am greatly concerned at the risk of introducing, particularly, foot and mouth disease and swine vesicular disease in swill, and my Department has been instrumental in having the feeding of swill reviewed by the Animal Health Committee. This Committee recommended to the Standing Committee on Agriculture that swill feeding should be prohibited in Australia and this recommendation has been endorsed by the Australian Agricultural Council. My Department will support a prohibition on swill feeding of pigs, especially in view of the risk of introduction of exotic diseases of animals in areas adjacent to ports and airports. 
The seven terminal airports for scheduled international flights and the airports at Hobart and Launcestion are equipped with incinerators. Thirty-two seaports have been supplied with incinerators and four other incinerators are projected in Western Australia and in South Australia. The total number of seaports with incinerators now includes the port of Sydney, where the Australian Government has made arrangements for the disposal of overseas ships' garbage at the new Joint Council incinerator at Waterloo. 
(a) The policy of providing incinerators for the disposal of foodwaste from overseas aircraft arriving at Australian international airports has been extended with the development in traffic using such airports. Alternate airports are not provided with incineration facilities but garbage and waste from overseas aircraft may not be removed from the aircraft at alternate airports. All waste must be retained on board for final disposal at a terminal airport provided with incineration facilities. 
Seaports at which overseas vessels call, and where incinerators have not, in the interests of disease security, been provided, are as listed below. At these ports garbage is not permitted to be brought ashore except with the approval of the Director of Health in the appropriate State or the Northern Territory. 
Western Australia 
Barrow Island, Broome, Cape Cuvier, Carnarvon, Dampier, Derby, Esperance, Geraldton, Exmouth, Port Hedland, Port Walcott, Shark Bay, Wyndham, Yampi Sound. 
Northern Territory 
Gove, Milner Bay. 
New South Wales 
Eden, Port Kembla, Coifs Harbour, Trial Bay, Yamba and Goodwood Island, Ballina, Byron Bay, Newcastle. 
Tasmania 
Long Reach-East Tamar. 
Queensland 
Proserpine. Karumba. Hay Point. Cape Flattery, Archer Point. Cooktown and Port Douglas. 
South Australia 
Thevenard, Port Giles, Wallaroo, Edithburgh. Port Stanvac. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Computer Services  Planning  Committee on the provision of computing facilities and systems for health services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I thank the interjectors who have commended the general practitioners who have moved into this Parliament. The question of supplying more doctors, and particularly more general practitioners, is one that has exercised the minds not only of the Government but also of the Australian Medical Association and all sorts of people who are concerned with the present trends. Over a period of 7 years the proportion of general practitioners to population has remained fairly stationary. The average age of general practitioners is rising and the average number of hours they work per week is declining. So obviously this is getting close to a crisis situation. 
The Government has moved to do several things about it. First of all it has funded universities to set up schools of community medicine and general practice so that undergraduates, before they graduate will get a taste of what general practice really is. All too often during their undergraduate years they learn about the rare conditions and do not see the bread and butter conditions with which general practitioners have to deal- or, as we used to say, they learn about the canaries but cannot recognise the sparrows. 
Another initiative has been to fund the family medicine plan which is a program of training administered, planned, designed and carried on by the College of General Practitioners. This has received universal acclaim from every organisation except, I think, the Society of General Practitioners which represents a minority group opposed on principle to anything done by governments anyway. In its first 12 months the plan has already enrolled over 300 doctors who are training in general practice. Not only the trainees but also their principals- the people employing them- have been enthusiastic about the plan. They are doctors chosen by the College for their ability to train juniors. The assistants salary is subsidised by the Government for the first 2 years ofthe doctor's assistanceship particularly the first year. The whole scheme is funded 100 per cent by my Department on the recommendation of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. The Commission was ' another initiative of this Government. 
As regards the output of graduates generally, the Karmel Committee on Medical Education has recommended the scope and location of new medical schools and where extension of medical schools should occur. The Committee foreshadowed an increasing proportion of graduates to population between now and 1990 or 2000 which it believes will be adequate. 
In other words it is not a shortage of graduates that is the problem, but there is a mal- , distribution of graduates as between, say, the area of general practice and other areas of medicine that may be more glamorous and more attractive. In short, I think that we have done as much as we can, in the present state of our knowledge, to offset the difficulties. We tabled recently in this Parliament a report from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission on health careers, personnel and training. The suggestion that the honourable member has made of using nurse practitioners and other medical assistants to eke out the scarce resources of doctors appeals to me. I have said this consistently both before and since I have been in the Ministry. This matter is under active consideration. It has considerable support, particularly for isolated areas where bush nurses have been doing this sort of work under difficulties for many years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records maintained by my Depanment up to and including 1972-73 were not in a form that permits the extraction of all the information requested. However from 1 973-74 a record of the number of applications received and evaluated has been maintained. 
Drugs presented for evaluation 
Of the 180 applications received in 1973-74 for general marketing, sixty-two were presented to the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee for consideration; of these forty-one were approved, twenty-one on first presentation and twenty after further information had been obtained from the sponsor. 
No statistical record is maintained which would allow the information sought to be extracted. Each application is treated on its own merits. Many protocols received in support of these applications are deficient in several respects. Long delays may occur while companies provide the data required. 
and (4) The processing of applications may differ according to circumstances and the nature of the drug concerned. In some instances, only quality control aspects need to be evaluated, in other instances a complete protocol embracing quality control, animal studies and clinical studies has to be evaluated. Consequently, some applications are approved without Australian Drug Evaluation Committee consideration, others are presented for consideration once and sometimes may need to be presented a second time before a decision is able to be reached. 
Recently a need was seen to revise the procedural structure for dealing with applications. Resulting, from that revision it will be possible to reduce the time taken to process applications although this reduction will not become apparent in the immediate future. The revision includes the recruitment of pharmacologists, medical officers and advisers in clinical pharmacology to fill recently established positions. As an immediate measure to accelerate evaluations of new drugs, experts outside the Public Service are being used on a contractural basis. 
The implementation of revised procedures will result in the formal acceptance of applications after a preliminary check has ensured that all necessary data have been provided. Better statistics will also be available. 
Some of the new procedures in relation to the processing of clinical trial applications have been explained to the pharmaceutical industry and have been well received. 
I expect that, from a few months hence, my Department will be able to provide information of the type now sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Human Diseases (a) communicable diseases 
Facilities are available within Australia for the laboratory diagnosis of all commonly occurring communicable human diseases. 
Specific laboratories for which lam responsible, namely the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Sydney, and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, Melbourne, are also able to diagnose the four (4) internationally prescribed quarantinable diseases: smallpox, cholera, plague and yellow fever. 
In addition, individual Government and/or University laboratories have expertise for diagnosis of the majority of the more exotic infections likely to be of concern to Australia, e.g. rabies, dengue fever, and for diagnosis of the bacterial toxin-caused disease, botulism, which may affect groups of consumers of infected foods. 
However, facilities are not available for the confirmation of some very rare infections, none of which has to date been known to occur in this country, and of which occurrence in the future is extremely unlikely. 
Examples of these infections and the laboratories to which samples would be referred are: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report made to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled: Australian Health Manpower'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) No instruction was issued to the Western Australian Division of the Department of Health to discontinue the spraying of cabins of incoming international aircraft. However, on 15 November 1974 consideration was given to modifying the procedure used for initial spraying of cabins. A new spray formulation recently introduced was proving extremely irritating to some passengers and staff. 
The purpose of the initial spraying of the passenger cabin area is to knock down any insects, and is carried out before passengers disembark. A second, more intensive spraying using a more concentrated spray, is given to cabins as soon as passengers have disembarked. No modification of the second spraying was considered. 
The proposed modification of the procedure was not implemented. Instead it was decided to introduce a less irritating, but equally effective, spray formulation. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Representatives of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the Australian Department of Health will meet with State Officers in Brisbane on 17-18 March 1975, to consider the Queensland Hospitals Development Program for the period 1975-76 to 1978-79. On the basis of this examination the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's representatives who attend the meeting will make recommendations to me concerning the extent of Australian Government financial assistance to be offered to Queensland for the development of public hospital facilities. It is a fundamental principle of the Hospitals Development Program that Australian Government funds will be directed towards assisting total State programs rather than individual projects. 
If the Mater Hospital authorities in Brisbane have submitted a formal proposal to the Queensland Health Department for consideration at the meeting, it will be considered in the context of the total Queensland hospital program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) It is one of the responsibilities of my Department to ensure that the provisions of the National Health Act in relation to pharmaceutical benefits are complied with by doctors and chemists. 
With this object in view, pharmacists employed by the Department make relevant enquiries into all aspects of the supply of pharmaceutical benefits. It is therefore necessary m some cases for these officers to interview chemists, doctors and patients, depending on the nature of the enquiries, and to ask the type of questions to which the honourable member has referred. 
This procedure is a continuing one and has been inoperation since the inception of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
Where an apparent contravention of the National Health Act or Regulations is revealed, the matter may be referred to a Committee of Inquiry or appropriate action taken through the courts. 
I am not familiar with the exact regulations to which the honourable member for Sydney refers, but he probably refers to a restriction on the content of lead in paint on toys generally made in Australia. Certainly I could not say offhand whether the bicycles referred to would be classified as toys, even though they are children's bicycles. Certainly, I would imagine the hazard from bicycles would be less than the hazard from other toys that a child might put in its mouth. Presumably this would happen less with some kinds of bicycles. However, I shall find out and let the honourable member know what the position is. Certainly, imported toys ought to be subject to a customs control at least as strict as anything that the States impose on local manufacture, because both the customs standards of the Federal Government and the standards for manufacture imposed by the States are set on the recommendations of bodies such as the National Health and Medical Research Council. They ought to be consistent. By and large, the Federal Government imposes those standards more quickly, more promptly and more strictly than the States do. 
It is true that there has been a regrettable delay which hinges, as I think honourable members generally will be aware, on the relationship between the Clunies Ross family and the inhabitants of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. My colleague the Special Minister of State is engaged in negotiating matters of principle with the Clunies Ross estate. For this reason I believe it is inappropriate that the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee be acted on further at this time. I am hopeful that these negotiations will be concluded speedily, because it is urgent that we have facilities to speed up the import of varieties of beef cattle and other cloven-hoofed animals that will be accommodated in the off-shore quarantine station. 
-Confirming the question, I take it that the honourable member is asking whether New South Wales has met its responsibility in contributing towards the cost of community health centres in that State. 
By and large the States have co-operated well in the community health program and are meeting 25 per cent of the capital cost and 10 per cent of the running costs of the centres that have been constructed. In New South Wales there are only 27 of these centres which are not actually State-sponsored but are sponsored by voluntary organisations. Unfortunately, while some of these centres are performing a valuable service and have come into existence as the result of community initiative and activity which the State has approved in principle, the State has said that they must raise 10 per cent of the running costs which is not provided for under our legislation and they must meet 25 per cent of the capital costs, not from the State contribution but from other sources. This has embarrassed some of the centres, particularly in the less affluent suburbs. The only recourse that we have is to advise these organisations to form some kind of loose confederation on a national basis. If they are represented by a national body then we will fund them as a national body 100 per cent of the cost. This will get around the problem. 
I regret that the State is so shortsighted. It ought to know that the fostering of community health care is one of the major ways it can save itself the enormous escalation of costs, particularly of capital costs, of hospital care. These are preventive, educational and rehabilitative projects. These are the things that are most necessary if the escalation of health costs is to be contained. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
A working party has been established in my Department to investigate the provision of medical and surgical aids and appliances generally and to recommend ways in which Government assistance may best be given. The working party will investigate these and other aids in collaboration with health professionals with direct involvement in the particular fields with a view to determining their suitability for use in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Increased costs in salaries and wages, equipment and research materials have rendered a given amount for medical research made available through the National Health and Medical Research Council less effective as the current triennium (1973-75) has progressed. This has resulted in a reduction in the number of projects which could be supported. Had additional funds been available, the Council would have supported a number of new projects which were considered worthy. This has been a matter of comment by various research workers and by other individuals who have an interest in medical research. While I share their concern. I appreciate that in the present financial situation with mounting unemployment there are other essential national priorities for government spending. 
An explanation of the above situation was given to research workers who were unsuccessful or only partly successful with their grant applications submitted to the National Health and Medical Research Council for support in 1975. Following this action six persons submitted requests for additional grants. 
The present level of support for medical and other research in Australia has been the subject of several exhaustive enquiries during the past year. Perhaps the most important of these was the examination undertaken by the OECD investigating team. The Government has taken certain action to alleviate some areas where inflation has had a serious effect, such as providing for salary increases for research workers in line with award increases. 
In specific instances, it has by a further allocation of $750,000 to the Walter and Eliza Hall and Howard Florey Research Institutes, compensated in part for the recent falling off of voluntary donations to these world renowned centres for medical research. This has assisted them in avoiding retrenchment of staff and in maintaining research projects at present level. 
In addition, the National Health and Medical Research Council has experienced an acceleration in the quantity, quality and sophistication of submissions for research funds. In these circumstances some projects which would have been funded in earlier years were unsuccessful primarily because of the intensity of competition for the funds available. I do not think however that the description of 'crisis' can be sustained. 
The Council has recently made a total review of research priorities which is aimed to take account of the most pressing needs for the Australian community, some of which have undoubtedly arisen because of its life style and environment. The Government and the NH &amp; MRC have freely sought the advice of individual research workers, institutes and medical research organisations. Their opinions will be taken into account when a case is presented to the Government for support of medical research in Australia during the 1 976-78 triennium. 
In supporting medical research it must be remembered that it is no longer sufficient, because of the growing complexity of biological sciences, to look for spectacular and immediate cures and remedies. The future depends on integration of the skills of the fundamental scientists, biologists, clinicians and epidemiologists. It has become increasingly more important to support research in the long term. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The procedure recently has been that normal quarantine checks covering human, animal and plant aspects are applied to passengers and their luggage from South-East Asia in common with all passengers entering Australia. In addition, all Australians and other travellers returning from South-East Asia are asked specifically whether they have been to Bali during the past three months. If answered in the affirmative all footwear of that passenger is disinfected whether or not contaminated with soil or animal matter. 
As the first stage of a vaccination campaign covering all cattle on Bali was successfully completed on 23 January 1975 and as there have been no clinical cases identified since mid-December, 1974 it has been decided to bring Bali into line with other countries in which foot and mouth disease is present and vaccination is practised. As from Friday, 7 March 1975, only footwear of passengers coming from foot and mouth disease countries which is carrying soil or animal matter will be disinfected. Footwear which is clean on inspection is not now subjected to treatment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1-2) Since the introduction of the Australian Government's Community Health and Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Programs, some hundreds of applications for financial assistance, including requests from voluntary organisations, have been received by my Department and by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
The following voluntary organisations have received Australian Government financial assistance for the establishment or maintenance of a national secretariat, viz: 
National Life Line Association- which has received assistance under the Community Health Program 
The Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependency (AF ADD) 
Recovery- which have received assistance under the Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question 1698 in the daily Hansard of 9 April 1975 at page 1447. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The estimated average monthly costs for consultations at Melba Health Centre for the months of July, August, September and October 1974 are: 
However, the business of health centres is not simply to provide consultations on a par with private, fee for service general practice work. Costs should be related to the type and quality of service provided and to the possible savings arising from reduced hospital admissions, referral to less costly and more appropriate health personnel and to reduced travelling time, time off work, etc., of patients. In addition health centre workers undertake a wide range of community health and welfare activities, other than consultations, which are not usually found in general practice and for which no deduction has been made in the above cost estimates. Evaluation studies of the impact of these activities on the general health and well being of the community and on the total cost of health services will be undertaken when the centre has been operating for a sufficient period. 
Component parts included in the determination of the average cost of a consultation are as detailed below: 
Costs are based on the proportion of time spent by non-medical workers on duties associated with medical consultations with doctors, (ii) Estimates; calculated as an average for the four months. The present accounting system does not permit actual monthly costs to be computed. 
The amount includes notional apportionment of estimated costs arising from the Centre's overheads (cleaning, watching, maintenance, supplies, electricity, telephones, office requisites, travelling, etc.) central administration and capital depreciation. 
Other workers include District Nurses, an Infant Welfare Sister, Dentists, Social Workers, a Social Health Visitor, a Psychologist, a Physiotherapist and Pharmacist. Some of these are part-time. 
Includes salaries, allowances, etc., of non-medical clinical workers and costs relating to non-clinical workers based on the proportion of time spent by non-clinical workers on duties associated with nonmedical consultations. 
The allegation that has been made about the Australian Capital Territory is false not only in relation to the Australian Capital Territory but also throughout Australia. Under Medibank or any other arrangements no one in the Australian Capital Territory or elsewhere will be forced to have other than his own doctor. The only extra charge that will be incurred by people who go into hospital and wish to have their own private doctor is the charge for the hospital bed and this will be made on the basis of an intermediate or private bed. If they go in as hospital service patients there will be no charge for the bed. That principle will apply throughout Australia. There will be no discrimination or distinction in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Australian Capital Territory Medical Association undertook before the Trade Practices Tribunal that the boycott would be lifted. The  President  of the ACTMA has written to doctors in the Australian Capital Territory advising them that continuation of collective action would be unlawful. In practice some ostracism remains. Some doctors in private practice are still sending to Coventry their colleagues in salaried service. They are in breach of the Australian Medical Association's own ethical standards, which require a doctor to communicate with a colleague his knowledge of the case when a patient exercises his AMAproclaimed right to choose his specialist attention. A breach of such ethical standards can be made the grounds for a complaint to medical registration boards, which have the power to deregister a doctor for such unethical behaviour. Some private doctors avoid referring patients to a salaried specialist even when that specialist may be the only practitioner in that specialty in the A.C.T. I hope that the AMA will take more decisive action to ensure that the black ban that those doctors have promoted is removed in practice as well as in precept. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Hospital and Health Services Commission entitled 'A Report on the Integration of Health Services and Health Education Facilities in the Illawarra Region'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Editorial Board of the Australian Prescriber has met on three occasions and it is expected that the first issue will be published in July /August this year. The Adverse Drug Reaction Bulletin was first published on 1 November 1974 and a further three issues have since been circulated. This Bulletin will be incorporated in the Australian Prescriber when published. 
I appreciate the importance of the question asked by the honourable member. I have seen a journalist's report that, apparently to test the bona fides of the faith healer, he stated that he had a headache, whereupon followed the magical procedure of the extraction of clots and tissue from the patient's forehead. He was then informed that his headache had been cured- a headache which he never had. I think this is the best objective evidence so far, if indeed it is a reliable report, that at least one of the faith healers concerned is a fake. Certainly there has been no objective evidence that the cult that has arisen in the Philippines of operating by hand without going through the skin, as it appears, or leaving no wound in the skin, is a very lucrative practice and one which works only if the patient believes that it does, but it apparently has no physical benefit at all. I am very happy to take this opportunity to warn people in Australia and elsewhere that they should not waste their life savings on this procedure, which is just a bit of magical showmanship. 
The Queensland Department of Health is planning a major hospital complex at Mount Gravatt adjacent to the Mitchell University, with a first stage of 200 obstetric beds. I understand that the authorities plan to call tenders for stage one early in 1976 and that completion of stage one is projected for early in 1979-80. The Australian Government announced in the 1974-75 Budget a 5-year program of capital assistance to the States for development of public hospitals and other inpatient institutions. Under the hospitals development program capital from the Australian and 
State governments will represent a joint initiative to give this nation for the first time co-ordinated planning on a regional, State and national basis. The States have agreed to the principle of their hospital programs being reviewed by joint hospital works councils consisting of State officers and representatives of the Hospitals and Health Service Commission, one of whom is a nominee of the Australian Department of Health. On the basis of this examination the Commission recommends to me the extent of Australian Government grants to each State. A fundamental principle, however, is that national funds will be directed towards total State programs rather than individual projects. 
During the 1974-75 year we provided more than $5m to Queensland for construction and improvement of hospitals in Queensland. Undoubtedly the availability of those funds has accelerated the development of this hospital. It is noteworthy that in other States- in New South Wales, for instance- the Labor Government's determination to see a major hospital complex in under-serviced outer suburbs has led to an unprecedented acceleration of expert multinational planning. Melbourne has benefited similarly by our support of the community's need for decentralised, major teaching hospital facilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Examples of successes in price reductions achie /ed since the Labor Party came into office in December 1972 for drugs which had earlier been listed as pharmaceutical benefits include the following, for which estimated annual savings are also shown: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. My Department is in the course of arranging for this information to be provided to all travellers from overseas arriving in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is some evidence which indicates that the drug Lioresal may be of use for patients suffering from spasticity. This use is currently being evaluated as a matter of urgency. 
No, although its use on a clinical trial basis has been approved since 1966. Ciba-Geigy Australia Pry Ltd lodged its application for the general marketing of Lioresal with my Department in April 1971. Evaluation of the data submitted was referred to the 44th meeting of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee in December 1971. The data were considered to be unsatisfactory in respect of a number of matters and these deficiencies were communicated to the company in January and February 1972 and more satisfactory data requested. 
The Company did not reply until November 1973. The new data were evaluated and referred back to the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee at its 59th meeting in August 1974. The Committee considered that none of the deficiencies in clinical data which had been identified at the 44th meeting had been satisfactorily remedied. 
Although Lioresal had been available in Australia for clinical trial purposes for a number of years, no detailed data had been submitted on the results of these trials. This fact was communicated to Ciba-Geigy and to the Australian Society of Neurologists in December 1974. The additional data have now been received and are currently being evaluated. 
It is anticipated that a submission as unsatisfactory as that for Lioresal will not be repeated by Ciba-Geigy in the future, since the parent company in Basle has recently set up a special section to ensure that data appropriate to Australian requirements for safety and efficiency (and those of other countries) will be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unaware of any research being carried out in Australia into a vaccine against Australian arbo-encephalitis. There has, however, been research overseas into the development of vaccines against this and other closely related strains of encephalitis virus. It is not yet practical to use these vaccines as their safety and effectiveness against Australian arbo-encephalitis has not been demonstrated. 
The development and testing of a vaccine is a long and difficult process. It is considered preferable, at this stage, to control the disease by mosquito abatement programs and through research into the bionomics of the vector species. 
Research of this type is being carried out in Darwin and Alice Springs and also at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney. It is envisaged, also, that officers of my Department and research personnel from the John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University, will be conducting a research program in the Murray Valley during this year. 
Other research related to the epidemiology and aspects of control of the disease is being carried out at the Queensland Institute of Medical Research, the John Curtin School of Medicine and the University of Western Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Health Services Planning and Research Program 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales 
January 1975-72.14%. February 1975-74.09%. March 1975-72.59%. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average number of days taken to process claims lodged in February 1 975 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposed Capital Territory Health Commission will occupy the building as a headquarters and will provide clinical facilities and a health centre on the ground and first floors. Some suites may be available for lease for medical/ dental purposes. 
No plans for accommodating elements of Medibank in the building exist at present, but any administrative elements of the Medibank service which the Capital Territory Health Commission may be expected to handle for the A.C.T. may be housed in the building. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Beds in the two public hospitals in the A.C.T. and the Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Home are classified as General or Private. A General bed is one in a ward of up to six beds with a charge equivalent to N.S.W. public ward charge; a private bed is one in a single room with a charge equivalent to N.S.W. private ward charge. Private beds are made available to patients at public ward charge, when this is medically desirable. 
The total number of beds by type on 1 October 1974 and 1 April 1 973 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No decision has been reached regarding the possible transfer of the National Biological Standards Laboratory to Geelong. 
13. The Administration Section of the Laboratory moved to Queanbeyan on 1 May 1 975. 
Yes. 
Preliminary design of a laboratory complex to accommodate the N.B.S.L. at Narrabundah in the A.C.T. has been completed. One unit of this complex has been erected and is awaiting final testing. However, the actual location of the complex will now be dependent upon Cabinet decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am well aware of the risks to health incurred by smoking tobacco and of the problems and inconvenience caused to non-smokers who are compelled into passive smoking in such public places as aircraft. 
My Department has recently written to all major Australian airlines on the particular question of smoking in aircraft. In their replies, all airlines have indicated recognition of the rights of the non-smoker and have clearly indicated that they adopt a very responsible approach to this problem. 
Qantas Airways has advised that the current trend is to increase the number of seats for non-smokers , and accordingly on and from 1 May 1975, about one-third of the aircraft has been blocked off for non-smokers, (including a complete Zone in 747B's). 
Following an increase in the demand for non-smoking seats, Ansett Airlines has moved to meet this by providing the following allocation of seating for non-smokers: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main incinerator at Perth Airport is a wood fired unit which, although it requires considerable care in operation, does adequately incinerate quarantinable waste. It is, however, somewhat wasteful of time and labour/The incinerator is reaching the end of its useful life and it is not intended to expend any significant sum on repairs and maintenance. The capacity of the incinerator is adequate for present needs but will not be sufficient to meet proposed developments at Perth Airport. Present usage is 13- 16 hours daily. 
Design considerations are being finalised with the Departments of Housing and Construction and Transport and it is hoped to have construction undertaken during the financial year 1975-76. 
It is proposed that incinerators will be provided at the following ports: 
There are 3 family planning educators who will operate from Royal Flying Doctor bases on a trial basis for 3 months. I understand that 2 educators were to take up duty at Mount Isa and Broken Hill on the 27th of last month and a third is to commence at the Kalgoorlie centre towards the middle of this month. These educators will travel with doctors and nurses to remote areas to give talks and provide educational material, back-up advice and counselling on contraception, fertility and sexual problems. They will advise anybody seeking help. They have been specially briefed on the difficulties they may encounter in counselling Aborigines. If the scheme is found to be successful after 3 months it will be a precedent on which I hope we will be able to build and we will have as a result the placement of similar health education professionals in remote regions. There are other actions which the Government is taking on health in rural areas and within a month or two I hope to get a report on rural health problems generally. However, the Government has not waited for the report in order to do things for rural areas. In particular, of the 500 community health projects it has funded 170 are in rural areas. 
The answer to the" honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to Question No. 1S6S in the House of Representatives Hansard of 1 9 May 1 975 at pages 2465-8. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the Prime Minister's answer to question 2243 (Hansard, 13 May 1975, page 2198). The report of the Workshop on 
Health and Nutrition of Aborigines which was held in 1969 is a Departmental summary of proceedings and was distributed to the participants and other interested persons. A limited number of copies of the report are held in my Department and can be made available to any person with an interest in this field. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Neither I nor the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee of the Capital Territory Health Commission have received a copy of  Mr Brian  Ell 's paper in which the eight points referred to are listed. I have, however, seen the summaries of his eight points which appeared in recent issues of the Bulletin and Pharmacy Journal of Australia, and I have now obtained a copy of what I believe to be a draft of the paper submitted to the Pharmacy Journal of Australia. 
The points made in the draft paper are personal impressions. They do no coincide with the general views of the current pharmacist, the other professional staff, or the Community Representatives on the Management Committee at the Melba Health Centre. Furthermore, I query  Mr Ell's  assertion that 'The pharmacy is a failure' (a statement which precedes his eight points) when on his own figures (in an earlier section of the paper) more than 90 per cent of the residents in some suburbs served by the Melba Health Centre use the pharmacy for advice or purchase of a prescription or other item. Some 36 000 prescriptions have been filled at Melba and the Pharmacist who replaced  Mr Ell  counsels every recipient of a drug on its purpose, storage, use, possible side effects, etc. and continually monitors and advises staff of adverse reactions reported by patients. The staff and patients welcome this service, which is not generally available at commercial pharmacies. 
The pharmacy service at Melba is an important and in many respects unique aspect of community health care. I believe it has been most successful and I will not therefore, discontinue the present arrangement. Nor is it within my power to establish an ordinary (presumably private) pharmacy adjacent to the Centre. 
However, there is probably need for at least one more pharmacy in the five suburbs served by the Melba Health Centre. In this regard informal discussions have been held with the  President  of the local Branch of the Pharmacy Guild about the possibility of encouraging a private pharmacist into the Melba area. 
No permanent accommodation is at present available in the area, but I understand the local community group and the Pharmacy Guild are considering the possibility of seeking a temporary building for a private pharmacist. This would enable the residents of North-east Belconnen to choose between private pharmacy services (with associated non-professional retail facilities) and the strictly professional service (with its emphasis on patient advice, drug monitoring, etc.) at the Health Centre. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No research into Huntington's Disease is currently being supported by Australian Government funds available through the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
I have no information on whether such research is being supported by other sources available to Universities, Research Institutes or individual research workers. 
Commemorative Stamp: Settlement at Albany  (Question No. 2559) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Two meetings between representatives of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and officers of the Department of Health have been held with a view to arriving at mutually acceptable means of reviewing prices of pharmaceutical benefit items. 
The first meeting was a preliminary meeting only, attended by two representatives of the APMA and four departmental officers, and at this meeting it was agreed that the Association would prepare an approach to this subject for discussion at subsequent meetings. At the second meeting three representatives of the APMA and three departmental officers were present and discussions commenced. 
This is a matter which was raised by the APMA represenatives, at the second meeting, for consideration. Future meetings are planned to discuss the Association's proposal when it has been further developed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
February 1972. 
An application for permission to market prazosin was received by the Department on 7 March 1974. This application is currently being evaluated. No application has been received for its listing as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Beds in the three public hospitals in the A.C.T. are classified as General or Private. A general bed is one in a ward of up to six beds with a charge equivalent to N.S.W. public ward charge; a private bed is one in a single room with a charge equivalent to N.S.W. private ward charge. Private beds are made available to patients at public ward charge, when this is medically desirable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) In his book  Mr Spigelman  quoted the DirectorGeneral of Health, in his Annual Report for 1968-69, when referring to the compilation of estimates of total health expenditure in Australia as saying 'It is hoped to produce a series of similar estimates, thus providing the basis for an index of health costs'. Estimates for 1969-70 were subsequently prepared and published in the 1972-73 Report of the Director-General of Health along with previous estimates for 1960-61, 1963-64 and 1966-67. These were the only years for which estimates have been prepared. The Commonwealth Statistician is now publishing annual estimates of health expenditure thus obviating the need for the preparation of estimates by my Department. 
As stated, these estimates could provide the basis for an index of health costs. However no such index has been prepared by my Department 
Nursing Homes and Care of the Aged (Question No.  2276) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No food additives currently recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council and used in Australia for food processing and preservation have been demonstrated to induce cancer at their recommended levels of use. In the assessment of chemicals for use as food additives all toxic effects are taken into consideration not only cancer inducing effects. Also, in the calculation of an acceptable daily intake of a food additive a one hundred fold safety factor is applied from the minimum level of additive showing indication of toxicity in feeding studies. 
Research undertaken in Australia into the toxicity of chemicals used in food processing and preservation is not as extensive as that carried out overseas. However, all available information from overseas is considered when assessing food additives for use in Australia. The data required by the Food Additives Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council to assess the safety of a proposed food additive, include acute, short-term and long-term (chronic) toxicity studies and these require highly sophisticated techniques over a considerable period of time. 
Very few food additives currently in use in Australia have been approved as a result of toxicity trials carried out locally. In general, food additive protocols contain toxicological data derived from studies carried out in the United States of America or the United Kingdom. 
All data are critically assessed by the Food Additives Subcommittee as to the technological need of the additive, and, if that is justified, then on the toxicological status of the additive. 
The number of food additives approved for use in Australia is substantially less than the number approved in the United States of America. 
It is not practicable to directly co-ordinate all research into the toxicology of food additives in Australia with that carried out in the United States of America. However, duplication of research is avoided wherever possible, and attention is focused particularly on related studies in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. This is achieved by maintaining a continuous surveillance on the current status of food additives in use overseas. All additives approved in Australia are under continual review in the light of all information coming forward. 
For the assessment of a food additive, all available data are compiled on such aspects as manufacture, proposed use, current status overseas, contaminants, toxicology, acceptable daily intake and use in other foods. Where data are questioned or incomplete, research may be carried out in Australia. 
Entry of Vietnamese into Australia (Question No. 2500) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D-(3) 
Processing of claims is on schedule in all States except New South Wales. Adequate numbers of data processing staff are currently available and are working to eliminate the backlog in New South Wales. Any additional recruitment would result in staff surplus to requirements. 
There is no shortage of suitable personnel for training in the cities and there are sufficient operators in training to counteract any shortage of trained operators. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) There is no restriction on the circulation of the material contained in the report in question. However, there are very few copies extant and in any case the material is now considerably dated. Nevertheless, I am arranging for a photocopy of the full report to be provided without delay to the honourable member. 
Committee Report on Requests for Troops from South Vietnam  (Question No. 2300) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) The reference to the surveys relates to ongoing Departmental activity which eventually led to the preparation of statistics relating to individual diseases, morbidity, and infant mortality rates. These statistics were made available to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in September 1973. They have since been published in the Northern Territory Medical Services Bulletin. The published statistics date back to 1 965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not recommended a general sampling and testing technique for residues in food. The procedure followed depends on the residue to be determined. Samples are selected in such a manner that a uniform distribution pattern of sampling is maintained from the widest possible area. Biased sampling is avoided in general surveys. Individual surveys are coordinated by strict sampling procedures and guidelines drawn up by the Central Statistical Unit of the Department of Health. Testing techniques vary according to the residue to be determined, but are standardised for the duration of each survey. 
The NH &amp; MRC 1973 Market Basket Survey serves as a good illustration of the sampling procedures employed. This survey was primarily concerned with the determination of pesticide and heavy metal residues, including mercury residues. Sampling was carried out in the six State Capitals and five samples were taken of each of nine food types in randomly selected areas. These five samples were blended together so that a uniform homogeneous sample was analysed. Sampling was repeated four times during the year to assess the seasonal variation in residue levels. In all, 120 samples of each of the food types were purchased for analysis. 
Strictly, the samples should be representative of the food as consumed which is the cooked product in this case. 
The level of mercury in cooked fish will most probably be higher than the level in raw fish. This effect is due to loss of water and shrinkage during cooking. 
VIP Cars  (Question No. 2451) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and (2) Yes. 
My Department does not publish a 'manual of composition of proprietary medicines . If the honourable member can provide further information about the publication to which he refers I will re-examine the matter. 
See (3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Asthma research in Australia is funded by a number of bodies such as: 
The Australian Government (through the National Health and Medical Research Council); 
State Departments of Health; 
The Asthma Foundations in each State; 
Universities; 
Private funding. 
No information is available on the total amount of research undertaken in Australia on asthma. The details shown below refer only to research supported by the Australian Government During the calendar year 197S the National Health and Medical Research Council will support various projects related to Asthma totalling $75,000. 
Applications for research grants are not made direct to the Australian Government Under the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937 all medical research supported by the Government is funded through the National Health and Medical Research Council. Applications for 1976 support have recently closed and are at present being processed. The assessing of applications involves personal interviews with a peer group as well as reports from referees and from eminent scientists who work in the particular field and who act as assessors. To disclose details of these applications before the results are finalised would not be appropriate. 'Asphyxiation Bombs' (Question No. 2485) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At present the orthodontic treatment that is provided in all States by the School Dental Service is limited to treatment of an interceptive and preventive nature as is usually provided in general dental practice. 
It is intended that, in the long-term, specialist orthodontic treatment will be provided by the Service. However, the severe shortage of orthodontists in Australia is a limiting factor in the provision of an extensive orthodontic program at present 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Within the Australian School Dental Scheme both dentists and dental therapists treat children under the age of fifteen years; dental therapists of course work under the supervision of dentists. 
In New Zealand, the School Dental Service uses dental therapists to treat children in the pre-school, primary and intermediate school levels, which include children aged 13 years. I understand the decision to limit the School Dental Service in New Zealand to intermediate school level was an administrative matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Dentists: Steps are being taken to increase the undergraduate capacity of the dental faculties in Australian universities. The move follows an extensive Government-initiated survey that showed a need for a major increase in the number of graduating dentists. The survey was undertaken by the Universities Commission in close collaboration with my Department and the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Some further details of the survey and results were announced jointly by the Minister for Education and the Acting Minister for Health in a media release dated 19 May 197S. 
Orthodontists: Selected officers of the School Dental Service will be trained in the orthodontic field by the Government as it is intended to provide orthodontic treatment, in the long term, under the Australian School Dental Scheme. However, the introduction of this additional service will substantially increase the demand for professionals that are already scarce. The Australian Dental Service Advisory Council has recommended to the Australian Dental Association that the attention of the Deans of Australian dental schools be drawn to this situation and to the need for steps to be taken to provide adequate training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Provision does not exist under the National Health Act whereby dentists may prescribe drugs as pharmaceutical benefits. 
Aspects of the possible prescribing of pharmaceutical benefits by dentists for dental treatment have been discussed jointly by representatives of the Department, the Australian Dental Association and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, but I have not yet received any recommendations on this matter. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 2557) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department participates in a surveillance operation off the north-west coast of Australia in co-operation with the Australian Government Departments of Defence, Agriculture, Police and Customs, Immigration, Foreign Affairs, and the Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna. 
Aerial surveillance by the RAAF reports the movement of all fishing vessels, including Indonesian vessels, towards and within the area of Australian fishing grounds on the northwest coast. Short-range aircraft based on Broome follow up these reports and investigate all vessels fishing in areas on or near off-shore reefs and near islands under Australian sovereignty and the mainland. 
Surface patrol craft of the RAN and, as appropriate, of the Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna proceed to the scene of any landings or approaches reported by aerial surveillance. These vessels have on board fisheries officers of the Australian Department of Agriculture and the Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna who are also gazetted Quarantine Officers. Wherever possible interpreters familiar with Indonesian dialects are included in the investigating teams. 
All reported landings on inshore islands or on the mainland are also investigated by Quarantine Officers of my Department using light aircraft, helicopters or surface vehicles to reach the scene of a landing as quickly as possible. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question 2789. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Yes. Salaries for the Medical Staff in the three areas are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since the tabling of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's report on 'A Proposal for a Scheme to Accredit Pathology Services wervices in Australia', the Commission has established the Joint Pathology Working Party. The Working Party consists of representatives of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the Australian Department of Health, State Health Authorities (Victoria as an observer), the Royal College of Pathologists, the Australian Medical Associaton, the Australian Association of Clinical Biochemists and the Australian Institute of Medical Technologists. 
and (3) The standards developed by the National Association of Testing Authorities will be of value in developing the details of the proposed Pathology Accreditation Scheme. However, the Scheme envisaged goes beyond the control of laboratory standards and includes determination of medical, technical and administrative procedures. Since professional and patient care issues are involved, NATA would not be an appropriate body to develop the accreditation scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission has received a number of submissions  from the  Nursing Mothers' Association of Australia for assistance under the Community Health Program. The submissions are under active consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two private hospitals have been opened in the Hunter Region of New South Wales during the last three years. 
Lake Macquarie Private Hospital Pty Ltd, cnr Pacific Highway and Sydney Street, Gateshead 2290 (Newcastle). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Restricted pharmaceutical benefit listings of ampicillin, epicillin and amoxycillin in the April edition of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule are as recommended by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. Late in 1974 the Committee recommended the derestriction of trimethoprim with sulphamethoxazole and this recommendation has been implemented in the April edition of the schedule. 
Derestriction of the combination product was not due to a desire of the Department to obtain the cheapest product, but was the result of a recommendation of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee based primarily on medical considerations. Side effects which may occur with this drug combination are widely known by the medical profession; they were the subject of an article in a recent copy of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee's Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin which is distributed by the Department to all medical practitioners. While aware of its possible side effects, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee recognised the place of trimethoprim with sulphamethoxazole, particularly in the treatment of urinary tract and respiratory infections and that the medical profession had gained wide experience in its use of this preparation. 
3 ) CSL believes that there will be some downturn in sales of ampicillin. However, it does not follow that any such downturn would be caused solely by the derestriction of trimethoprim with sulphamethoxazole as it had been expected that the relatively new amoxycillin, which is also marketed by CSL, would take a share of the market previously covered by ampicillin. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Arthritis sufferers in Australia can be fitted with plastic and other types of artificial finger joints and suitable patients are receiving this form of treatment. 
National figures on average waiting times for the different types of surgical procedure are not kept. 
Learmonth Communications Station: Garbage Disposal  (Question No. 2562)  Mr Bungey  asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How is garbage from the Learmonth Communications Station disposed of. 
Has his Department investigated the position concerning disposal of garbage, especially that of foreign origin, to ensure that no quarantine risk exists. 
If so, were any changes instituted following these investigations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no communications station at Learmonth but there is an airport which, at present, is held in a care and maintenance state. Quarantinable food is not permitted on the base for the caretakers' use. Food waste from the private dwellings of the resident caretakers is disposed of on a local tip with other garbage from the locality. 
Yes. Learmonth is used as a first port of entry for RAAF and U.S. military aircraft arriving from overseas. All incoming aircraft are met by a Quarantine Officer and a Quarantine Assistant; the latter disposes of any garbage from these aircraft by burning. Aircraft that land to refuel only are required to retain quarantinable materials on board for destruction by incineration at their terminal ports. The method of disposing of garbage from the caretakers' dwellings presents no quarantine risk. 
No changes were required. However, my Department will be arranging for an incinerator to be provided at Learmonth to dispose of quarantinable food waste in the event that a large aircraft arriving from overseas needs to use it as an alternate airport to Perth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Negotiations have been conducted in the first instance with Fisons Pty Ltd and Organon (Australia) Pty Ltd resulting in reductions in the price to chemist of Intal, Lyndiol and Ovostat 

For the information of honourable members I present a report of a committee of review on the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. 
-Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical 
Research Endowment Act 1937 I present a report titled ' Medical Research Projects, 1973' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question 2586. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances on hearing aids was prepared within the Department of Health to advise me as Minister for Health on implementation of the Government's long standing policy to provide hearing aids free of charge to those who require them. The Working Party's report is not a statement of Government policy or a public discussion paper. Considerable discussion has, however, occurred with hearing aid distributors. The Working Party's report on spectacles is still being prepared. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has been inquiring into various aspects of the provision of hearing aids in Australia (Review No. 6 Electronic and Electronic Equipment, Enquiry E2- Other Electronic Equipment Excluding ADP Equipment). My Department made a submission to the Commission concerning the Government's involvement in the provision of hearing aids through the National Acoustic Laboratories. The Working Party's report on hearing aids, which was made available to the Commission on a confidential basis, was one of several documents making up this submission. 
I do not plan to make all Working Party reports public as a matter of course but in general this will be done at the appropriate time. I consider I should read the completed report on spectacles before making a decision on when and whether or not it should be made public 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is giving consideration to the provision under the National Health Act of orthoses to those who need them. This matter has been referred to the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances and the National Advisory Council on the Handicapped for investigation and report. The recommendations made will be carefully considered by the Government. 
The appliances which might be provided and criteria for receipt of aid are matters on which recommendations will be made in the reports referred to in ( 1 ) above. I would envisage that a comprehensive range of appliances would be made available and that necessary adaptations to these appliances to suit the needs of individual patients would be included in the scheme. On the criteria for receipt of aid, I refer to the Labor Party Platform objective of providing prosthetic aids and appliances free of charge and free of means test to all who need them, which I anticipate will be carefully considered in the formulation of recommendations by the Working Party and the National Advisory Council on the Handicapped. 
I do not know of any organisation named the Australian Institute of Orthotists. 
A Sub-committee of the Working Party was set up to provide expert advice on orthoses and membership of the Subcommittee included experts in orthopaedics, rehabilitative medicine and splint making and fitting. The last mentioned member of the Sub-committee is also an eminent member of the representative body of splint makers, the Australian Institute of Surgical Technicians. 
The Government provides orthoses to clients of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation through Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres and these Centres would continue to provide orthoses in the event of Government assistance being extended to other people in the community. The Government has, however, accepted the recommendation of the Report on Rehabilitation and Compensation in Australia (The Woodhouse Report) that there should not be a monopoly in the provision of aids and appliances and that healthy competition will tend to increase both quality of aids and service. I have no doubt that the Working Party and the National Advisory Council on the Handicapped will take this into consideration when making recommendations concerning orthoses. 
Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces: Report (Question No. 2638) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Standards for insulin syringes and needles are still under investigation in my Department. 
Government approval and appropriation of funds for the purpose are required before an approved standard insulin syringe can be made available free of charge as a medical and surgical aid to insulin dependent persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Information available to me covers only research into rheumatological diseases supported by the Australian Government through the National Health and 
Medical Research Council. I have no information on research expenditure by other bodies such as State Health Commissions, Universities and private industries. 
The following are projects at present supported through the Council: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In order to meet rising costs the Government has decided to increase the amounts payable by patients for drugs and medicinal preparations supplied as pharmaceutical benefits. I announced the Government's intentions in this regard on 24 July 1975. The Bill will amend the National Health Act by increasing patient contributions for general benefits from $1 to $1.50 and for benefits supplied to beneficiaries under the subsidised health benefits plan from 50c to 75c The increases will take effect from 1 September 1975. 
As in the past, eligible pensioners- that is, those holding a pensioner medical service entitlement card- will not be charged for their pharmaceutical benefits. Similarly, no charge will be made for repatriation prescriptions. This increase of 50 per cent is the first rise in patient contributions since 1971 when the amount for general benefits was increased by 100 per cent. The new patient contributions will still be less in relation to purchasing power than at the time of the previous rise since prices generally rose by 53.8 per cent on a cumulative basis in the 4 years from June 1971 to June 1975. In common with charges for other services and specialist equipment, the cost of medical goods and services has increased at a faster rate than the general price index. Fortunately, the rises in the wholesale prices of drugs listed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme have not been as great as for the more labour intensive health services. 
Following the 1972-73 inquiry into pharmacy earnings, costs and profits carried out by the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, the Australian Government announced on 24 July 1975 that chemists would receive higher dispensing fees, to be paid in part retrospectively to 1 July 1973. It is estimated that retail chemists will benefit by $5 8m this financial year, including extra payments in respect of the previous 2 years from the increase in dispensing fees. Faced with the argument that public sector spending should be restrained, the Government has been obliged to increase the patient contribution to offset partially such increasing costs. In a full year revenue from the increase in pharmaceutical benefits charges authorised by this Bill will amount to approximately $34m. Assuming that the higher charges operate from 1 September 1975, they will yield $26m this financial year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission employed Community Systems Foundation to prepare a paper reviewing literature on hospital efficiency and staff utilisation. The cost involved was $2,400. The Commission also employed Llewelyn-Davies, Weeks, Forestier, Walker and Bor to prepare a paper on Indices for Hospital Planning at a cost of $7,000. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
The paper referred to forms pan of a report prepared in 1966 by a departmental working party on benefits available at that time under the National Health Act. It is an outdated report and, indeed, only one copy is known to be in existence. Nonetheless, if the honourable member so desires, I will make this copy available for his perusal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances has a membership of nine comprising six senior officers of the Department of Health (one of whom is Chairman), two of the Department of Social Security and one of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. Additional members are co-opted whenever special expertise is required. 
The Working Party has prepared reports on provision of stoma appliances, home dialysis equipment, artificial limbs and hearing aids. 
Recommendations were made by the Working Party in 1973 for abolition of the $10 hiring charge and provision of batteries free of charge to beneficiaries of Government hearing aid schemes. 
Reports are currently being prepared on provision of the following aids and appliances: aids to daily living (including wheelchairs, surgical footwear, orthoses and miscellaneous personal aids); electrolarynxes oxygen, oxygen equipment and various nebulizers; insulin injection equipment; spectacles and other ophthalmic appliances. 
A report is also being prepared on implementation of the recommendation in the report of the National Inquiry into Rehabilitation and Compensation in Australia (the Woodhouse Inquiry) for the establishment of aid display centres. 
It is intended that the Working Party will eventually investigate the provision of most medical and surgical aids and appliances. Items scheduled for investigation include medical wigs, various protheses such as artificial breast forms, dressings and contraceptive devices. Other items may be added as they are brought to the Working Party's attention. 
It is intended to make the Working Party's reports public unless there are reasons to protect private industry from dislocation before negotiations have been completed with them or other cogent and legitimate reasons to delay publication. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The additional receipts for a full year in respect of increases in plant quarantine charges are estimated to be $400,000. 
-The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  has covered most of the 
Government's case in this matter. The initial speech of the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  as Acting Minister for Health outlined the intentions of this Bill when he presented it. I will confine myself to answering some of the points raised by members of the Opposition in support of their amendments. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  mentioned, as did the other two speakers for the Opposition, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  the profitability aspect of drug manufacture in Australia and pointed out that the manufacturers' contributions to the cost of drugs in this country has actually fallen over the last 10 years while the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme escalated. The honourable member further pointed out how a firm was dipping out of production of penicillin manufactured by the Abbotts company. If one follows that logic I suppose one could say that the way things are going even without this Act that we are proposing it looks as though the poor pharmaceutical drug firms and drug manufacturers are going out of business. I suppose if one believes that sort of philosophy one will say that there is a cause for alarm in seeing something happen which will accelerate the failure of pharmaceutical manufacture in Australia. No responsible government wants to see that happen any more than it would like to see it happen to any other vital, essential and worthwhile industry in this country. We do not want to see it fail. Therefore I can assure the honourable members opposite that this is not the intention, nor the object, nor can it be the effect of the legislation- quite the reverse. 
If we can get better information, true information, on which to base proper estimates of the profitability of these companies- whether they are going to the wall, whether they will cease to produce these essential drugs- we will be in a far better position to ensure the very thing that they are asking us to ensure, namely, that we maintain the benefits of having this expertise in Australia, having the employment that results, having the technology, the continuity of supply and all these other benefits which are attributed to free enterprise. However, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories also takes a part in this. It provides technology, expertise, employment and continuity of supplies. That was the reason for setting it up. It has nothing to do with free enterprise as such. 
Nevertheless, we recognise that there are some benefits in having free enterprise and competition. Otherwise why do we foster a 2-airlines policy? Why do we subsidise private medical practice? Why do we subsidise private retail chemists? This is the Medibank scheme, among others. We even subsidise private hospital accommodation in Australia at a liberal rate. So do not let it be said that because we are extending health benefits to a wider range of people without so much direct cost to the patient and the consumer we are trying to disturb, destroy or displace the private sector. On the contrary, we want to keep the private sector on its toes by giving it a dose of the very medicine that it is prescribing for us- free enterprise competition, fair competition, not unfair competition. 
The honourable member for Murray said that it would be cheaper at times for us to buy on world markets. But if we always go for the cheapest item we will then be saddled with all the disadvantages that go with some of the cheap drug markets. Government purchasing officers are not fools. They are not dolts. They have been in the game for a long time under governments of many colours. They buy all sort of things, not only drugs and military hardware. They knowthis is not confined to the drug industry- that certainly if one always goes for the cheapest item one does not always get the best product, and it may end up dearer in the long run because one has used an inferior product. We know all this. It is a complete red herring to suggest that because we get more information of the true cost structure of these firms therefore we will thumb our noses at that information and say: 'We are not interested in the extra cost of your quality controls because we do not want quality controls; we want the cheapest product'. This is the reverse of the intention of the Bill. So the argument is against the very amendment that the honourable members opposite are proposing. 
The point about penicillin manufacture by Abbott Laboratories Pty Ltd being discontinued, leaving only one producer in Australia, which happens to be CSL, is not, to my mind, an argument that therefore we will have to double the subsidy to CSL or in some way dramatically increase the subsidy to CSL or have it stop production. It may be that CSL, like Abbotts, will decide within a year or some time of that order that it is not profitable to produce penicillin in Australia., If Abbotts is such a marvellous multinational corporation- I think it is; it has a very successful image in the free enterprise field and in the drug production field irrespective of private or public enterprise- why did it decide to close down production? Evidently because it saw that it was more profitable to buy its penicillin overseas and to have it produced overseas. 
If it is good enough for the goose it ought to be good enough for the gander. It ought to be good enough for CSL to make the same decision and say: 'It now appears because there are huge economies of scale to be obtained by Australia getting its penicillin overseas that CSL also will bow out of" the penicillin production field'. But CSL is not committed to doing that. I believe that it will not. I believe that through the updating procedures which are even now in train it will be able to manufacture fairly and competitively and continue in the future to export penicillin, which it has done in the past in the face of private enterprise competition both in this country and overseas, even though it may be importing some  during its retooling period. So that is not an argument for or against the Bill or for the amendment. If anything, it only reinforces the arguments of the Government. 
The honourable member for Murray said that there is no clear policy, and that the DirectorGeneral and the three unknown people in the pricing bureau have expounded no clear policy on this Bill or the philosophy on which the Bill is based. I should have thought that it was pretty plain. The Acting Minister in his second reading speech made it pretty plain to me. Surely the crunch comes in the extract he read from the first report in November 1973 of the Joint Committee on Prices- a joint committee, not a Government committee; it has Opposition members on it too- which stated that the National Health Act should be amended to allow the Department of Health to obtain cost and financial information in respect of products in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Although a couple of speakers referred to that report, to my mind none of them gave a convincing answer to why that is not a good enough reason. They have not canvassed the reason put by the Committee. 
Let me state briefly the reasons as I see them. The Department depends at the moment on negotiations with the drug manufacturers to arrive at what is considered by both sides to be a fair pricing return for drugs and medicinal preparations listed as pharmaceutical benefits. This is its duty in the public interest, when 80 per cent of prescriptions are in the pharmaceutical benefits listing. Those negotiations have not always been successful. The multi-national corporations particularly are a little shy about these things. They say: 'You want all this information. We will give it to you if you pass a law'. Surely that is the very reason the Government is seeking to pass a law. The honourable member said that there is already a trend in these firms to give the Government the information, so why does the Government want to force them. The answer is that that trend has its limits. Some of the firms say: 'Pass the law and then we will give you the information'. That is why the voluntary system will not work. 
The honourable member said also that overall profitability is not taken into account when the Government is looking at the pricing of individual products. He cannot have it both ways. Either he wants to give the Government power to get information on the particular products it is considering for listing or has listed as pharmaceutical benefits, or he wants to give the Government power to get all the information about all the financial transactions of all these manufacturers world wide. Now, which one is it that the honourable member wants? If he wants to bring in an amendment to look after that aspect, then his amendment should be that the terms of reference for the information available should be widened to state: 'We want to know all about your financial affairs world wide, not just information that bears on the pricing of possible pharmaceutical benefits.' The honourable member did not say that. He just said that the Government is not going to take it into consideration. In fact the Government does. I have met with representatives of the pharmaceutical manufacturers and we have assured them that we are interested in pricing in a total context; we are interested in the survival of the industry; we are interested in maintaining expertise and continuity of supplies, in a reasonable degree of competition to keep people on their toes and to keep quality as a factor. The Government is interested in all these factors, but it has not written them into the Bill because if it did another amendment would be moved to restrict the information that can be made available under the Act. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. 
The next point is that the honourable member said that there is no provision for confidentiality. This is not so. Confidentiality of information which is obtained under this Bill is provided for under an existing section of the Act. I draw the honourable member's attention to section 135A of the National Health Act. This came into operation on 1 February of this year. It is very broad. It applies to any person who has acquired any information by reason of his office or employment under the Act. It prohibits any such person from divulging or communicating to another, either directly or indirectly, any information so acquired which concerns the affairs of another except in the performance of a duty or exercise of a function under the Act. The exercise of his function under this proposed new section will be purely for pricing for pharmaceutical benefits purposes. It will have nothing to do with giving information to Fawnmac. It will have nothing to do with giving information to CSL. It will have nothing to do with giving an unfair advantage to public enterprises over private enterprises. 
The information obtained under proposed new section 102a will be squarely within the terms of section 135a. The honourable member should revise his opinion. Stringent penalties are provided. The penalty for disclosure in breach of the section is a fine of up to $ 1,000 or imprisonment for up to 3 months. To ensure compliance with section 135a by the officers concerned, access to information obtained within my Department will be very limited. In fact, it is now very limited- so much so, that the honourable member cannot even say who the officers are. Most of the drug firms cannot say who the officers are either, though they may suspect. Even the identity of the officers has, so far, remained confidential. 
I am advised that disclosure of this confidential information to Fawnmac or CSL would incur this penalty. In view of the honourable member's statement that some firms now disclose the information needed for price negotiations then he and the drug firms whose cause he espouses ought to be reassured by the fact that neither CSL nor Fawnmac has benefited in the past from this voluntarily tendered information obtained for the Department by the officers of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Bureau. If it has remained confidential in the past, why should it not in the future? Why is the honourable member prepared to say that he supports detailed investigation of the affairs of companies by taxation officers- he says that is good practice and he supports it- yet he is not prepared to have a similar and confidential investigation by officers of the Pricing Bureau of the Department of Health which has to disperse the public money that the Taxation Office collects? Why is it all right to trust the taxation officers with confidential information in taking tax money off the companies when it is not all right to trust officers of the Department of Health who are going to give tax money back to the companies? 
They are the pricing officers. They belong to the Pricing Bureau of the Department of Health. I think the confidentiality issue is another red herring. The honourable member for Murray then said that there is no independent arbitrator. I do not know how independent he wants these things to be. I would have thought that conscientious, dedicated and long-serving officers as these men are- they are senior officers- would have been indepenedent to the extent that at least they are entrusted with negotiating for the Government as buyer with independent firms as sellers. Although they do pay for more than 80 per cent of the prescriptions written in this country, that is not a monopoly. There is still an open market for drug firms whose items are not listed as pharmaceutical benefits and which doctors, dentists and whoever else prescribes drugs can prescribe. They do not have to prescribe even the drugs listed as pharmaceutical benefits. They are not bound legally to prescribe them as pharmaceutical benefits. They can be prescribed outside the Government subsidy scheme and paid for by the patient. 
Of course it is not practical. That is why we have a pharmaceutical benefits scheme and that is why it is essential that the people responsible for dispensing public money have accountability. 
I am making the point because there is an independent arbitrator available for the drugs that are outside the pharmaceutical benefit schemes the drugs which we will delist if ever we delist any. I do not think it has ever happened. Those drugs do have an independent arbitrator available in the Prices Justification Tribunal. But there is no consistency in the Opposition on this matter. The honourable member who has just interjected said that the Prices Justification Tribunal should be abolished, it is a waste and it has caused a lot of misery. The honourable member who preceded him in the debate is asking for an independent arbitrator. Which does the Opposition want? It cannot have it both ways. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal is as independent as the Medical Fees Tribunal. 
-No, I am saying that it is used in other areas for drugs that are not listed. 
It is not at issue if they are listed as pharmaceutical benefits and the price being negotiated is their price as pharmaceutical benefits. It is relevant for all the drugs that are not listed as pharaceutical benefits. 
I am talking about those. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Bureau of Statistics publication 'Chronic Illness, Injuries and Impairments, May 1 974 (Preliminary Statement)' shows the incidence of rheumatoid and allied conditions to be 1 male and 3 females per 1000 population and of osteoarthritis 4 males and 5 females per 1000 population in Australia. It also estimates that approximately 9800 males and 10 700 females suffer from other unspecified rheumatic conditions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter was referred to the Food Standards Committee in August 1974. 
The Committee has considered the technical problems involved, and has consulted with both consumer and industry interests. 
The recommendations of the Food Standards Committee have now been referred to the Standing Committee on the Health Problems of Alcohol for consideration within the broader sociological context. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The National Health and Medical Research Council Health Problems of Alcohol (Reference) Committee has recommended that beers should be subject to an excise differential which favours those with a low alcohol content I have recently sent a copy pf this recommendation to my colleague the Minister for Police and Customs requesting him to consider this matter and to let me have his views. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first edition of a 'Handbook on Health Manpower' prepared by the Australian Department of Health. 
I am familiar with such a case. Unfortunately, under the Medibank agreement the Capital Territory Health Commission can cover only the cost of an Australian Capital Territory resident's stay outside the Australian Capital Territory for non-emergency treatment if the referral received the prior approval of a medical administrator with the Commissionfor example, if someone had to go to Sydney for treatment not available in the Australian Capital Territory. But he cannot approve it unless there is an emergency or some reason of that kind. Prior approval had not been given in the case to which the honourable member refers. I suppose that no application was made for such permission and I do not see any good reason why it would have been granted if it had been applied for. In answer to the second part of the honourable member's question, let me say that it may be that we are being unfair to the doctor involved. It may be that he admitted the patient to Queanbeyan in ignorance, thinking that the patient had retained - 
None of the States do this either. It is not a Territory business. Queensland hospitals do not treat people from New South Wales free. They never have. It is nothing that Medibank invented. It is just common administrative prudence and sensible conditions. 

 Opposition members interjecting. 

in reply- I thank speakers on both sides of the House for their contributions. They were mostly constructive. I am going to answer briefly the main points raised as far as I can in the short time available. The proposition that the rise in prescription fees contradicts Australian Labor Party policy- the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  referred to this- is simply answered by the fact that no party undertakes in its first term in office to implement every policy item in its platform. During neither of the last 2 election campaigns after which Labor was returned to office did we undertake to abolish prescription fees in the first Parliament. Obviously things must have their priorities according to the funds available. 
-The honourable member interjects and asks whether it is our intention to abolish these charges. Basically this was best answered by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who said that we have to look for better deterrents to over-prescribing than just putting the charge on the patient. We are moving in many directions to do that, particularly with prescriber information and prescriber education programs, which I have described in detail at another time and which I will not go into at the moment. 
Let me answer the question that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  keeps raising, particularly by interjection. He asks: 'If you put a charge on for drugs, why don't you put one on for doctors?' It has been shown in Canadaand elsewhere- in the various provinces that have tried both systems that if you put a socalled deterrent charge on the consultation and charge a patient for seeing a doctor, according to the doctors' own estimates, you reduce overusage, wrongful usage, unnecessary usage, usage by people who just want a sympathetic ear or who are in some way misusing the doctor, by something like  Vi  per cent, but you are inclined to deter people who really should go to the doctor but who are not particularly motivated to go to the doctor and would rather save their money, and in fact you are deterring something like  Vh  per cent. In other words, you have to steer that line between deterring over-treatment and deterring under-treatment. We think that the balance comes down on the side of enabling people to go for a free service if they choose it, giving them that chance, that opportunity, that choice of the 2 systems, which has been done in Queensland, as I keep pointing out, for 30 years. So a charge on doctors is not strictly comparable with a charge on drugs. Even those countries which have not imposed for many years now a charge on doctors have reimposed charges on prescriptions. Britain and the Soviet Union are 2 countries where people pay a modicum for prescriptions which were formerly free because authorities have not yet evolved a more efficient way of deterring the over-use of drugs. Although these countries think that the system of the charges is imperfect and that, as the honourable member for Kingston said, we have to look for better methods, they have not been prepared to abolish it yet, although they have abolished the charge for doctors. 
It was said that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has been betrayed. This matter is rather peripheral to the Bill, of course, but for just a few minutes I want to deal with this issue. The Minister for Health in 1972,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, undertook that if there were substantial differences between the negotiating partiesthe Government on the one hand and the retail chemists, dispensers, on the other- either side could ask for arbitration. The Guild has written to me asking for arbitration but it has not specified on which issues. I replied some time ago to  Mr Russell,  the  President  of the Guild, and I hope that he will indicate whether he wishes arbitration on the question of goodwill being counted for the purposes of calculating prices or whether he wants the calculation to take into account the issue of economic pharmacies as against all pharmacies. On the matter of whether calculations should be based on all pharmacies, as the Guild wants it to be and as the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements,  Sir Walter  Scott, wanted it to be, or based only on economic pharmacies, as the Cabinet has determined it should be, my legal advice is that it is in fact outside the terms of reference of  Sir Walter  Scott.  His  commission is to work out the facts on which a fair formula shall be based, but it is not for him to determine a policy matter, and whether all pharmacies are considered in the calculation or whether only economic pharmacies are considered is a policy matter. This is a fine legal point, and as things stand at the moment this is the issue to be determined. 
I come to the question of the isolated pharmacies, which will be penalised under the formula being adopted. I agree that they will be, and the Guild agrees that they will be, although the Pharmacy Guild did not make any exception of these pharmacies in the present pricing negotiations. It has not put up a firm proposition as yet. I think it should. I have suggested that in further pricing negotiations to take effect this financial year it should do so. I think the people who run the isolated pharmacies have a good case for up-dating the consideration of factors to do with the isolation of their pharmacies giving a service which, on the face of it, is uneconomic but which, when looked at from the point of view of social surroundings, the environmental situation and their geographical placing deserves special recognition. That is an issue separate from the question of whether we should look at economic pharmacies only or whether we should look at all pharmacies. 
Let me stress that the concept of economic pharmacies is not one that the Government raised but is one that the Guild raised. It asked the Government to reduce the number of pharmacies. I submit that if there is one way which is fairer than any other to decide which pharmacies should go out of business, bearing in mind that it was the Guild which asked the Government to reduce the number of pharmacies, it is the free enterprise way which both speakers from the other side of the House said ought to be protected. The free enterprise way is that a business that is uneconomic and cannot make a go of it is the one which should go. This formula is the fairest one available to us at this time. Certainly some of the most economic pharmacies were making a profit even on the old figures, and even before they got any of these retrospective payments they were still making at least a 4c profitand that applied to quite a slice of them. Most of those in the top stratum of the 6 strata were making a profit and would have even continued to do so even if we had granted no increase as a result of the tribunal's findings. We have to draw a line somewhere. 
What is the suggestion of the Opposition for a way to weed out pharmacies which are not economic? The Government thinks that the method it is adopting is the fair and just way and that  Sir Walter  Scott exceeded his brief in suggesting that we should ignore what the Guild put up to us and should look at the cost of prescribing for every pharmacy as though we should support any industry no matter how inefficient it is. We do not accept that formula. I have not time to go into all the matters raised but if any honourable member would like to raise a particular point with me individually I would be happy to give him an answer to the best of my ability. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The $1.3m profit I cited is consolidated net profit. The honourable gentleman says that it is not enough. He wants the company's private records as a private company to be tabled. Of course now that it is a government company annual reports will be tabled just as they are for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. I ask the honourable gentleman to contain himself. If he is patient he will get responsible reporting to this Parliament on all Government dealings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Arrangements continue to provide the service for particular classes of patients, including pensioners, students, indigent persons etc 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(2) There is no item in the funds available to me that is exclusively for advertising community health centres. However, provision is included under Division 270.2.02 (Department of Health) and Division 271.1 (Hospitals and Health Services Commission) for publicising the Community Health Program. Details of these provisions are: 
If the knowledge of the Leader of the Opposition of other items in the Budget is as good as his knowledge of the health items it will be a sorry day for Australia if he ever sits on the Treasury bench. It gives new significance to the resignation of the right honourable member for Higgins from the Liberal Party. The Pharmaceutical Corporation which the Leader of the Opposition proposes to sell has not been established. An interim committee has been set up for the production of pharmaceutical products. It consists of one person. So there is nothing to sell. 
If the Leader of the Opposition was referring to the Fawnmac group of companies, he should have done a little more homework before he made his statement. It is a profitable enterprise. The Government expects that it will remain profitable. In the last financial year it made a consolidated net profit of more than $ 1 .3m. We bought it for $8.4m. 
I note that the Opposition spokesman on health is interested in putting up that margin of profitability. He does not think that the drug firms are making enough. The company has been purchased so that the Government has reliable information about the cost of production of non- biological pharmaceuticals and can improve the range of expertise available to the government owned Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission. The Government has increased its understanding of the industry through this direct involvement in non-biological products manufactured by the Fawnmac group, which in the past has made contract arrangements with CSL to extend the variety of our biological products. 
As Fawnmac runs at a profit, perhaps the Leader of the Opposition would rather sell CSL, the non-profitable part of government pharmaceutical production. Commonwealth Serum Laboratories is long established and until now an industry that has been accepted by all parties as a government enterprise. Because of its commitment to the production of unique products absolutely essential for the public health of Australia and unattractive or unprofitable for private enterprise it makes a loss in some areas such as the processing of free blood donations for the extraction of often rare components for use in life saving situations. The obsessive ideological extremism of the Leader of the Opposition and his spokesman on health matters would only terminate the manufacture of some products in Australia or lead to their manufacture by the private sector with substantial government subsidies. 
The doctors are just like the honourable member who interjects. They want to socialise their losses; they want to capitalise their gains. They want to do that in the drug field too. The Leader of the Opposition did not dare to specify any other areas in the health field which he would cut, yet health is the biggest single item in the Budget- one that we have rapidly increased. Would he cut the community health program? Would he cut back or, as he delicately put it, wind back the capital program? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is not possible to answer the question in respect of medical practitioners at the present time because, in addition to a small core of physicians and of orthopaedic surgeons specialising in rheumatology to varying degrees, there is an unknown number of other medical practitioners also involved in the treatment of rheumatic disease. However, detailed studies of health manpower recently mounted by my Department are intended to assess the needs for medical specialties. 
In respect of allied health personnel needed to treat rheumatic disease, a recent report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission has recommended an increase in supply of both occupational therapists and physiotherapists. It has also recommended a study to identify the service characteristics of nursing practice and to estimate requirements for nursing personnel. The report, 'Australian Health Manpower', was tabled on 4 March 1 97S. 
Although there were facilities for the treatment of rheumatic sufferers in Australia, it is recognised that some of these facilities are inadequate. In its quest to improve the quality of all kinds of health care, the Government, through its Community Health Program, is supporting a variety of services and facilities, for example, day hospitals, health centres, and domiciliary care teams. 
In addition, the Government, through its Hospitals Development Program, is directly involved in the development and improvement of public hospitals and other health care institutions. The Hospitals Development Program is a program of capital assistance to the States. It represents a joint initiative between the Australian and State Governments and is aimed at co-ordinated planning of all health care facilities on a regional, State and national basis. The improved services and facilities resulting from the Hospitals Development Program will assist in meeting the needs of many patients, including sufferers from rheumatic diseases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Following the 1972-73 Enquiry into Pharmacy Earnings, Costs and Profits conducted by the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, the Government announced on 24 July 1975 that the professional fees payable to chemists for supplying pharmaceutical benefits would be increased by 11 cents for 1973-74, with a further increase of 1 1 cents (making a total increase of 22 cents) effective as from 1 July 1974. 
Meetings will continue to be held between representatives of the Pharmacy Guild and my Department with a view to making recommendations to me on further reviews of chemists' remuneration for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits. 
Grants by the Department of the Special  Minister of State  (Question No. 2774) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The existing Pharmacy Ordinance has been amended from time to time. It was last amended in 1974 and further amendments are shortly to go before the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly. Extensive amendments to the Poisons and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance have been drafted and have been submitted to the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly. Advice from the Assembly is awaited. 
No. 
Although a definition of Indian Hemp appears in the A.C.T. Poisons and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance it is inoperative. It is however intended to amend the definition of cannabis (for which Indian Hemp is a common synonym) in the A.C.T. Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance and also restrict the sale of certain therapeutic substances. 
Legislation to include the following definitions of 'cannabis' and 'cannabis resin' has been drafted. 
'cannabis' means a cannabis plant, whether living or dead, and includes, in any form, any flowering or fruiting tops, leaves, seeds, stalks or any other part of a cannabis plant or cannabis plants and any mixture of parts of a cannabis plant or cannabis plants, but does not include a cannabis resin or cannabis fibre; and 
'cannabis resin' means a substance that consists wholly or substantially of resin (whether crude, purified or in any other form) obtained from a cannabis plant or cannabis plants. 
This legislation was recently submitted through the Minister for the Capital Territory to the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly for comment. 
The amendment will also add to the Schedule of Prohibited Substances buclosamide, buniodyl sodium, desomorphine, tetrahydrocannabinol and triparanol in accordance with National Health and Medical Research Council recommendations. 
Mercury in fish (Question No. 2444) 
It is true that guidelines for community based health services recommended by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission were implemented under 2 programs by the Australian Government- the community health program and the community mental health, alcoholism and drug dependency program. The Australian Government meets 75 per cent of capital costs and 90 per cent of running costs of all projects under the 2 programs; the remainder is provided by either the States or community organisations. In 1973-74 over $2m was approved under the programs for Queensland and in 1974-75 the amount approved was over $4.8m. This year's Budget has allocated $8. 9m for the 2 programs in Queensland which are now combined under the community health program. Administration of most community health centres is the responsibility of individual State governments. 
In response to the latter part of the honourable member's question: Queensland does not have a good record of community involvement in community health centres, and a large responsibility lies with the Queensland Government. I should like to quote from a letter received from a senior officer of the Queensland Department of Health. It states: 
This Department's policy does not allow for community participation in the management of its community health service centres, and it does not establish management or advisory committees at the local level for this purpose. Whilst any suggestions or advice which may be offered by interested local committees or organisations would be taken into consideration, it is not proposed that they be given direct representation on any departmental planning body. 
In contrast, I quote paragraph 19 of the report of the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission. It states: 
The community health services should be responsive to the needs of the people they are designed to serve. Responsiveness can best be promoted by involving the community in decision making. 
Within my electorate I called a public meeting to inform people of the objectives of the community health program, but State Government employees of the Queensland Community Medicine Division of the Department of Health were forbidden to attend in an official capacity. The same practice is evident State-wide. A new centre is currently being built at Inala on the outskirts of Brisbane. Here, the Inala and District Community Health Services Committee, elected from a public meeting, is encountering what can only be called obstruction from the Queensland Department of Health. I am becoming impatient with the attitude of both the Queensland Government and the Queensland Department of Health. My attitude is that if the Queensland Government is not willing to allow community participation in management of its community health centres it is accepting money from the Australian Government under false pretences. If the Queensland Government will not honour federal guidelines for community involvement it should be prepared to initiate its own program of community health. The seeming policy of the Queensland Department of Health is antiquated, bureaucratic, centralised and shortsighted. One only has to look at the success of the Deer Park community health centre to realise the applicability and success of community involvement in community health centres. At Deer Park the local community is responsible for hiring and firing of staff and recommends to my Department new health areas the centre could broach. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2). 
Mainland and adjacent Islands 
The management of Fawnmac Industries Pry Ltd has told the Department of Health that there is no evidence that private enterprise customers of its tablet manufacturing subsidiary are taking their business elsewhere. It was reported in some quarters that this was being done as a protest against the Government's entry into the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. There is no substance in the report. The changeover to Government ownership is proceeding smoothly. Trading results for July and August, which are the 2 trading months since the proposed purchase by the Government was announced, have been good. I believe that the fact that these rumours have been circulated is a measure of the effectiveness of the Government's policy in this matter. It is only the competitors of Fawnmac who can hope to gain from peddling falsehoods in an attempt to discredit the policies of the Government. It is one more front on which certain commercial interests, which operated with impunity under the previous Government, have adopted dishonest tactics. Presumably we can expect the vested interests which feel threatened to clothe their commercial concern with political rhetoric as their campaign develops. 
The matter is under discussion with the Acting Treasurer and the Prime Minister. I intend to take it up further with the Treasurer on his return. The National Health and Medical Research Council will be meeting on the 20th of this month and I hope that we will have a firm decision before that time as to any adjustments that can be made. In the meantime the honourable member will be aware that, for the coming calendar year, we have guaranteed expenditure of $6.3m which is approximately a 20 per cent reduction on the expenditure for the present calendar year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. However, for the reason given below, I have not sought to obtain the document itself, nor to be made aware of its contents. 
No. 
I have been informed that the document was prepared in 1968 for consideration during Ministerial discussions then taking place. Its release would, I am advised, be a breach of the confidentiality that traditionally attaches to advice tendered to Ministers by their officers. If the honourable member has course to believe this is not in the public interest I am prepared to discuss the matter with him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Prices for pharmaceutical benefit items are reached by negotiations which are undertaken by departmental officers nominated by the Director-General of Health with senior executives of individual firms. From time to time there are changes in the personnel undertaking such negotiations. 
and (6) On becoming Minister for Health, 1 had it made known to departmental officers who undertake price negotiations for pharmaceutical benefits that it was my wish that they achieve price reductions wherever possible. The results indicate that they did this. 
No. 
diazepam tablets 5 mg; diazepam tablets 2 mg; bendrofluazide tablets 5 mg; phenoxymethylpenicillin capsules 250 mg; phenoxymethylpenicillin tablets 250 mg. 
These preparations were listed as pharmaceutical benefits several years ago at the best price which could be obtained through negotiations by the departmental officers at that time in the light of the then Government attitudes. In the case of phenoxymethylpenicillin a more substantial level of tariff protection applied on phenoxymethylpemcillin manufactured in Australia. 
10) a succession of Liberal Party Ministers. 
Negotiations were undertaken by departmental officers nominated by the Director-General of Health and they operated with my full support using to the fullest advantage our bargaining position in the market. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
1 ) No. Following discussions with the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and its own independent study of the prosthetic and orthotic needs within the community,* the Victorian Institute of Colleges has approved of the Lincoln Institute introducing a three year full-time diploma course in prosthetics and orthotics commencing in 1 976. 
No. 
At the present time there are in Australia a number of surgical technicians and splintmakers who refer to themselves as orthotists because their work is predominantly concerned with the fabrication and fitting of surgical appliances. Most of them are competent artisans with no formal qualifications or training in the clinical aspects of orthotics. The level of their experience and competence varies according to the level of their basic skills and closeness with which they have worked with orthopaedic surgeons and rehabilitationists. Few of them would have had a sufficiently broad training in orthotics to be recognised as orthotists in the sense that the word is used in international paramedical circles. 
The proposed course at the Lincoln Institute will provide for the first time in Australia formal structured training and qualifications in orthotics comparable with the best international requirements. 
It is understandable that practising splintmakers feel threatened by the commencement of the course at the Lincoln Institute. Graduates of the course will not, however, become available to the workforce until 1979 and it will be some time after that before the number of diplomates employed becomes significant. 
During this time I would anticipate that recognition of practising splintmakers and surgical technicians and for that matter diplomates of the Lincoln Institute, would be discussed by the parties concerned. I would stress, however, that the Australian Government is not able to grant national recognition of qualifications, skills or experience in the orthotics/prosthetics sphere. Presumably the employers would ultimately determine whether a particular splintmaker is recognised or not. The involvement of the Australian Government in this process would be limited to the extent that it is an employer of the people concerned. The Government plans to extend progressively the provision of surgical aids and appliances free of charge to all who need them, and have already done so in respect of artificial limbs among other items. Therefore training of practising splintmakers and surgical technicians will probably have to continue, especially as some of these artisans will probably attend the diploma course, and diploma holders will no doubt spend some of their time in work which theretofore splintmakers and others have had to leave to orthopaedic surgeons, other doctors or physiotherapists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the recent Australian Health Ministers' Conference the following important decisions were agreed upon in respect of controlling cigarette advertising: 
The important intention would be to cover advertisements for cigarettes; other forms of tobacco would not be covered at this stage. 
The warnings would be the same as on cigarette packages i.e. ' WARNING- SMOKING IS A HEALTH HAZARD'. 
The warnings would be mandatory on all advertisements for cigarettes in newspapers, magazines, hoardings, hand bills, pamphlets, leaflets, cinema slides and films and other written material advertising cigarettes on smoking accessories, articles of wear and on cigarette machines, or by other means. 
The lettering of the warnings would be of a height which is not less than one-quarter of the maximum dimension of the lettering in which the brand name of the cigarette or the name of the manufacturer, whichever is the larger, is displayed and in any case not less than 3 millimetres in height. Lettering should be in durable characters, in bold face sans serif type and printed in such a colour or colours as will afford a distinct contrast to the ground. Where advertising is displayed on both sides then the warning should appear on both sides. 
No advertisement will be marked or labelled in any way with any expression or words such as noninjurious', 'non-hazardous', or contain any comment on, or any reference to, or any explanation of any statement which is required by the legislation to be included as part of the advertisement which directly, or by implication, contradicts, qualifies or modifies that statement. 
Spoken advertisements on film or public address system advertisements should also contain a warning. ' 
On 7 May 1975 a conjoint press statement was issued by the State Ministers for Health  (Dr J. R. Maclntyre representing the Tasmanian Health Minister),  announcing their agreement to include these decisions in uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising. 
The Conference also discussed the question of restricting alcohol advertising but did not release any information on what decisions, if any, were reached. I am not in a position to elaborate on this because the proceedings of these conferences are, by request of certain participating Ministers, confidential except for information contained in any news media releases emanating from the conferences. 
Given the good working relationship which exists at officer level, these holdups must be politically motivated. The States received an additional 34 per cent in unspecified, untied grants this year. New South Wales is suffering financial difficulties from its poor handling of Medibank and its failure to transfer country railways to the Australian Government. Given the increase in unspecified grants and the fact that the Australian Government contributes 90 per cent of the operating costs and 75 per cent of the capital costs of community health projects, it is difficult to understand why this worthwhile program has been slowed down. Consistent with the Australian Government's ongoing commitment to community health services, the Budget provides $65m for this year compared with $42.5m in 1974-75. Perhaps the New South Wales Government is finding it difficult to provide its 25 per cent contribution to capital costs. 
On the staffing side, a mere 10 per cent of State contribution .is required, and yet hundreds of positions have been left unfilled. In all, about 1 500 positions were created in New South Wales under the community health program. Not only is  Mr Lewis  threatening to stand down up to 600 employees of the Public Works Department; he is also failing to use grants available from the Australian Government to boost employment in the health field by about the same figure. It is certainly a curious way of managing the financial affairs of a sovereign State. Most authorities in the world concede that most of the money put into more efficient community care is more than saved by reduced demand for costly hospital care. I shall take up the matter with the New South Wales Minister for Health to find a way to ensure that these vital initiatives are taken in the community health field. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Indian Hemp is declared to be a noxious weed under a notice pursuant to the Australian Capital Territory. Noxious Weeds Ordinance Section 5 (4) which requires all owners of.land to destroy or eradicate or otherwise deal with noxious weeds growing on their land. An offence is also provided under the Australian Capital Territory Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance for the manufacture, preparation, use, sale, disposal or possession of cannabis for which Indian Hemp is a common synonym. 
I am advised by my colleague the Minister for Police and Customs that 28 separate groups of cannabis plants have been discovered in the Australian Capital Territory since January 1973. These discoveries have resulted in one prosecution for the possession of cannabis which was successful. 
No. There have, however, been varying decisions in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions in regard to prosecutions for the possession of cannabis due to technical arguments among expert witnesses over the definitions of cannabis used in the legislation. To overcome these anomalies a Bill to amend the Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance has been prepared and forwarded to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for its comment. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
-Medibank comes within the administration' of the National Health Insurance Commission within the Department of Social Security. These figures are available no doubt from the Minister responsible. I will get them and let the honourable gentleman know. 
In the first place I would like to correct the wrong assumption that has been made about funds that are likely to be made available in the 1976 calendar year for the reseach program administered by the Australian Research Grants Committee. It has been assumed in the representations made to the Government on this matter that the amount available to the ARGC for 1976 would be $3.3m. This is twice the amount of $ 1 .65m made available for the first half of 1976. Of course, there has been no Cabinet decision on this question. The Government has decided that the triennial allocation for the research program administered by the ARGC should be maintained at $20m which is the figure that was the base level for the previous triennium. That was the original decision made by our predecessors in government. 
And so has Budget stringency gone up. Cabinet also approved an amount of $6.3m for 1975-76. This comprises $4.65m for the remainder of the 1973-75 triennium and $ 1.65m for the first 6 months of the 1976-78 triennium. I would like to take this opportunity to assure universities and research institutions that contrary to their assumptions regarding funds for research in the calendar year 1976, an amount of $5.5m will be available in that calendar year. This will involve the provision of some $3.8m in the second half of 1976 and an appropriation somewhat in excess of $7m in the 1976-77 Budget. The latter figure is broadly consistent with the rate of spending implied by the Government's decision to make $20m available for the 1976-78 triennium. This policy is also broadly similar to that adopted for the National Health and Medical Research Council program and is consistent with the concept of stringent restraint which forms the basis for the 1975-76 Budget. 
I turn to deal with the National Health and Medical Research Council. Honourable members will be aware from my reply to the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  that we had increased the funding available for the forthcoming triennium for medical research by 39 per cent. The honourable member said that this would not make up for inflation. He says this is the case after allowing for inflation. He is incorrect. The effects of inflation on wages and salaries will be taken into account. The amounts provided each year will be adjusted in accordance with changes in wages and salaries. In fact, the organisations concerned will not have to wait for 12 months. The grants provided can be adjusted when wages and salaries increase as has been done during the previous triennium. We have agreed to index these costs in regard to salaries and wages which comprise 70 per cent of the cost of medical research. So it is not true to say that a 39 per cent increase in funds in the triennium would barely maintain the 1975 level of expenditure. 
I would also like to point out that the level of spending for the previous triennium was set in advance by our predecessors in office at $ 13.3m. We increased that level of spending by indexation or, if you like, an adjustment of the grants in accordance with the movements in salaries and wages, to $ 17.7m. It is on that figure that I am saying we have increased funding by 39 per cent on actual spending which was higher than that allocated by our predecessors. The honourable member says that the previous Government was moving to bring Australia's position in medical research into some comparability with that of other countries and that it had a responsible attitude to medical research, but the fact is that Australia was well down the list in regard to medical research during the time of our predecessors. This was the case in all areas of research. It is not something invented by this Government that medical or any other kind of research is lagging in Australia compared with other advanced countries. But a time of Budget stringency is not the best time to increase our area of involvement in this regard. In the previous triennium- that is, the 1969-1972 triennium- our predecessors allocated, I think from memory, $6.9m for expenditure in this area. In other words, they allocated about half of the amount that they allocated in advance for the 1973-75 triennium. So certainly, a big jump was made in that period but the actual figure of $6.9m for the 1969-1972 triennium did not compare with the figure of $24m that we are making available for the current triennium, even allowing for inflation on all costs including equipment costs and all the others. 
The Government has decided that $6.3m will be available for expenditure on medical research in the coming calendar year. Negotiations are taking place with the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  I have no doubt that discussions will take place with him again when he returns from overseas. We have taken the matter to the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  Negotiations will continue with the Treasurer when he returns to establish that the National Health and Medical Research Council can be assurred of an adequate evening out of the flow of funds over the whole of the next financial year. It is true that I said that a mistake had been made in calculations by the confusion of calendar years with financial years in assessing funds for the coming triennium. This is the issue which we will iron out before the National Health and Medical Research Council meets in 10 days time. This confusion, of course, was considered to be cause for the honourable member to condemn me for incompetence in this regard. During the course of a previous speech on this subject in an adjournment debate the honourable member made exactly the same mistake. So, although he had gone into some detail on the whole question of medical research fundingpeople have made representations to him as they have to me- I at least woke up to the situation a little faster than he did. 
He stated in the adjournment debate that we have made available $4m for the latter half of 1976 by bringing the amount forward from the triennium starting at the end of 1976. 1 am pointing out this mistake to him. I am not accusing him of being incompetent, as he did to me. I am pointing out that if he looks carefully at the figures he will see that the triennium starts at the end of this year and not at the end of 1976. The honourable member said that 200 out of 425 people who are now employed in research will be out of a job at the end of this year. Certainly, if the cash flow as so far approved by the Budget, the triennial allocations and the fiscal year allocations are looked at as the sole basis for the funding of research, this could happen; but I have given him an assurance at question time and I am giving him an assurance now that the matter of cash flow and the distribution of the spending will be looked at by the Treasurer and by me. The information will be conveyed to the National Health and Medical Research Council in a week or so. 
The honourable member spoke of many people leaving the country. Of course, a brain drain was alleged to be occurring in Australia in all the years that the Opposition was in power. It was said that because the then Government did not give adequate money to medical research some of our best researchers were being forced overseas. We were as vocal as anybody in telling the then Government about this. Now the Opposition is turning the argument back on us. I suppose this is fair enough at a time of Budget stringency when we decide that we cannot increase our allocations in this area. I point out that almost every  speaker  on the other side of the House, when dealing with the question of raising money, is telling us to cut down government spending, to reduce taxes and to reduce the collection of money. But, when Opposition members have to debate a specific issue- whether it be medical research, defence, the welfare area, education or anything else- they say that we should have given more money. This argument rings a little hollow. 
The fact remains that we have increased the triennial allocation. We have assured $6.3m for the coming calendar year, which is a 20 per cent reduction on actual spending in the current calendar year. The allocation of this spending is under review. There is no evidence that doctors or research workers are leaving this country any faster than they did under the similar constraints that were imposed by our predecessors. We have moved, as quickly and responsibly as they did and as Budget constraints will allow, to increase the amount of money for medical and general research. 

 Mr LLOYD ( Murray  )-Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave of the House to present a further answer to a question which the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  asked me on 10 September. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The latest figures on the smoking habits of Australians are contained in the results of the National Survey (financed by my Department) of a random sample of 6000 Australians taken during June and July 1974. That survey showed the following percentage of persons surveyed as being ex-smokers. Figures for men over 60 years of age who are ex-smokers are included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment of an Advisory Dental Council of Australia was considered by the Australian Health Ministers at their Conferences in August 1974 and May 1975. They have agreed in principle to the establishment of such a Council. 
The Council will examine, investigate and advise on the development of uniformity between the States and Territories in the recognition of dental qualifications. The membership of the Council has not yet been determined. 
Serious allegations have been made by the  president  of the Hearing Aid Council of Australia,  Mr A.  S. Carr, concerning the actions of two senior officers of my Department,  Mr Piesse  and  Dr De  Souza, who are responsible for implementing Government policy on the provision of hearing aids. It was alleged that these officers had misled me and failed to inform me of developments. There is no substance in the allegations. I have been kept fully informed at all stages of the project, including the progress of talks with hearing aid distributors. I personally studied all written proposals made by the Hearing Aid Council of Australia and met some of its spokesmen. I respect the integrity, the propriety and the fairmindedness of my officers in all of their dealings with free enterprise. They have had high praise from other commercial interests in the course of negotiations for the supply of other medical and surgical aids and appliances for all who need them. 
Only the most agressively militant pushers of expensive hearing aids on to pensioners and children, such as the firm for which  Mr Carr  works, have used such intemperate abuse as he has. I therefore believe that this action is being taken as a last resort to delay implementing the longstanding and worthwhile Government policy. Of all the advisers with whom it has been my pleasure to work in my Department or elsewhere, I have found no person more anxious to ensure completely fairminded and evenhanded dealings with all concerned than the man who has been most viciously attacked,  Dr De  Souza. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At this stage the operating companies will continue to function much as they do now and with the present management. 
The purchase of the Fawnmac Group will give balance to the range of pharmaceuticals produced by the Government. Non-biological products manufactured by the Fawnmac Group will complement the range of biological products manufactured by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The Fawnmac Group already perform a considerable amount of work for CSL under contract and it is envisaged that this close working relationship will be maintained and strengthened. The links between Fawnmac, CSL and the Government will be such as to ensure the implementation of the Government's policy of promoting healthy competition with private enterprise and, as far as possible, of reducing the cost of drugs to the Australian taxpayer, without establishing a Government monopoly in the pharmaceutical industry. 
It is expected that the operating companies should continue to be financially viable. However, they should be less inhibited in including in their product range of items which are important from the national health point of view but which may not offer a significant commercial return. The companies will produce and sell in healthy competition with other manufacturers but with the aim of reducing the cost of drugs to the Australian taxpayer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Department of Services and Property (Tasmanian Division) is in the process of acquiring for my Department land in Bayfield Street, Bellerive, on which it is proposed to construct the permanent Eastern Shore Community Health Centre. The Australian Department of Housing and Construction is well advanced with detailed plans and contract documents for the Centre, and it is hoped that construction will commence in the near future. 
ABC Program: 'The Science Show' (Question No. 2980) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Royal Flying Doctor Service has advised my Department that it is not in financial trouble and in fact experienced a small surplus of income over expenditure for the year ended 30 June 1973, which was the first year of the current triennium for Australian Government financial assistance. 
The Australian Government, through my Department, has been providing assistance to the Royal Flying Doctor Service since 1936. The level of assistance is reviewed every three years. Grants in the last decade have been paid at the following levels: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's letter, which raised policy considerations, was acknowledged on 1 1 July 1975 and a substantive reply was forwarded on 19 September 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. They were not considered to be of sufficient scientific merit to attract funding in preference to other projects of greater merit. 
The Medical Research Advisory Committee is still considering the best allocation of funds for 1976. Allocation of funds for the rest of the triennium cannot be made until those funds are available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The design of a high security animal quarantine station to be established on Cocos (Keeling) Islands is completed to the pre-tender stage and awaits Australian Government approval of the concept. 
Delay in proceeding with the plan has been caused by constitutional problems which have arisen between the Australian Government and the Clunies Ross Estate. The 
Government has recently decided to negotiate purchase of the Estate. It is hoped that successful negotiation to purchase the Estate will lead to early resolution of the difficulties hitherto experienced. 
Yes. Consideration has already been given to establishing the station on Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean if the Cocos (Keeling) Islands site proves unavailable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
June 1971. That A.C.T. Hospital Television Rentals could distribute notices to patients advertising that television sets were available for hire. However if a patient expressed the wish to rent a television set from another hirer the pattern would have that right. 
Yes. 
No. 
ABC: Rural Services (Question No. 2934) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twenty-two. 
(2) 
The Salvation Army ( 1 delegate) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Where premises are constructed by the Australian Government with funds provided under the Community Health Program and the Australian Government makes the use of those premises available to another organisation for the provision of community health services, the cost of maintenance of the premises would be the responsibility of the Australian Government. 
Where funds are provided under the Community Health Program for the construction of premises to be owned by a State Government, a local government authority or a nongovernmental organisation, the cost of maintenance of the premises is an item of expenditure towards which the Australian Government would generally provide financial assistance under the Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1972. 
Attempts to rectify the problem began in 1972. A technical report in 1973 concluded that modifications to existing equipment would not help, that the steel and concrete construction of the building prevented good reception in certain locations and that only by installing a wired system from one external well-placed antenna could the problem be solved. The cost of installing a wired system is $ 1 8,500- alternative quotations are being obtained. 
I am unaware of a private offer to correct the problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The purchase price for the Fawnmac Group of pharmaceutical companies is $8,735,595. 
The Fawnmac Group consists of three operating companies: 
Fawns and McAllan Pty Ltd which is the marketing division of the group engaged in promotion and distribution of pharmaceuticals under its own name and as agent for some overseas manufacturers; 
Rotary Tableting Corporation Pty Ltd which is the manufacturing division of the group. 
It manufacturers products for sale under its own name, and the Fawns and McAllan brand and also carries out contract manufacturing for other companies; 
Croydon Investments Pty Ltd which owns the land and buildings from which the group's activities are conducted. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The answers to these parts of the honourable member's question have been listed under the following headings: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-Unfortunately so far no State government has implemented the recommended standards for cadmium in seafoods. In fact, very few of the standards for heavy metals recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council have been implemented in most States. Again, unfortunately, it seems that there may be a reluctance on the part of the Victorian authorities to make available some of the data on pollution in Port Phillip Bay. For example, the Australian Government analyst who co-operated with the authorities in 1972 discovered high levels of sewage type organisms in the Port Phillip Bay area; he also discovered high levels of various metals in seafoods. But he has never been given the full results of that survey. Apparently some of the tests were done by other analysts and the Australian Government has not been given notice of those findings, made as far back as 1 972. 1 think it is high time that the State governments, in particular the Victorian Government, made public what the levels of contamination are and what steps they are taking to see that fishermen have alternative fishing fields or that due warnings are given to the public in these instances, and started to take some action towards the prevention of pollution in the rivers and particularly in Victoria, in Port Phillip Bay. I think that the Australian Government made some thousands of dollars available to the States some years ago to look into this matter of pollution. I am not aware, nor are the colleagues I have spoken to, of what has been done with that money. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Ministerial authority is not required. The Capital Territory Health Commission has power under Section 74 (2 ) of the Capital Territory Health Commission Ordinance 1975 to remit or postpone, either in whole or in part, payment of an amount payable by a person to the Commission in respect of a service provided by the Commission. 
The Commission has remitted fees for pensioners who had arranged admission to hospital under a private practitioner prior to the introduction of medibank or who were hospitalised at the time of the introduction of medibank or who were admitted as part of a continuing treatment shortly after the introduction of medibank. The Commission did this so that a pensioner would not need to change his practitioner in the midst of a particular treatment because of the need to 
Say the hospital fees which applied to private patients after J ulyl. 
There were waivers of charges in August and these would continue only in as much as they are necessary to lessen any financial hardship on pensioners. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$280,565. 
Advertising conducted by my Department (including advertising conducted on behalf of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission) is, in the main, of a service nature and involves advertising staff positions, calling for tenders, inviting applications for grants under programs such as the Community Health Program, advertising services available from the National Acoustic Laboratories and publicising Therapeutic Goods Standards. In the Northern Territory advertising is mainly directed towards the filling of vacant staff positions in hospitals and health services areas. Calling for tenders and advising of services and facilities available are the other main forms of advertising. The majority of advertising conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission concerns the seeking of applications for vacant positions. In addition, there is some advertising of services available such as the opening of community health centres, family planning services and publicising immunisation clinics and public meetings in the A.C.T. 
1970-71 $255,629; 1971-72 $127,942; 1972-73 $110,114; 1973-74 $167,188; 1974-75 $235,544. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Foot and mouth disease is endemic in the Philippines and precautions are routinely taken at pons and airports to prevent the introduction of the disease into Australia. These precautions are taken for all passengers coming from countries with a similar foot and mouth disease status, Passengers embarking in the Philippines for Australia have all quarantinable goods including foodstuffs and materials of animal origin confiscated and footwear and clothing contaminated with soil and animal matter cleansed and disinfected. 
Yes. Random checks of incoming passengers are made to ensure that quarantine procedures are being observed. Following notification of the present epidemic situation in Luzon province in the Philippines, all the baggage of all passengers entering Sydney airport who originated their flights in the Philippines was submitted to examination regardless of the content of the signed quarantine declaration. Although this survey is not yet complete, provisional results indicate that only a small proportion of passengers do not accurately complete the quarantine declaration through either lack of understanding or intent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is incorrect to state that the World Health Organisation is endeavouring to make 1977 World Rheumatism Year. During the 28th World Health Assembly in May this year the World Health Organisation passed a resolution which took note of the efforts being made by the International League Against Rheumatism to make 1977 the year of the rheumatic patient. The same resolution recommended that WHO continue to co-operate with national and international programs for the control of rheumatic diseases and particularly the programs of the International League Against Rheumatism and invited member States  to  encourage research, prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation in respect of rheumatic diseases. 
It is therefore the International League Against Rheumatism which is proposing such a World Rheumatism Year and not the World Health Organisation although it is understood that the latter would have no objection and will indeed assist in the project. The International League Against Rheumatism is a non-governmental organisation which is in official relations with WHO. 
and (3) The Government will give full consideration to co-operation with the International League Against Rheumatism to make 1977 a valuable year by upgrading the standards of treatment, increasing the finance for research, and educating health professionals and the public in the need for and value of treatment. 
The degree to which such co-operation may be extended, will be dependent upon funds available from the budgetary allocation for the period in question. 
No indication can therefore be given of specific plans in each of these areas until the Australian budgets for 1976-77 are presented. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
952. 
New south Wales-205, Victoria- 1 1 3, Queensland- 409, South Australia- 61, Western Australia 38, Tasmania- 38, Australian Capital Territory- 49, Northern Territory- 22 plus New Zealand- 5, United States of America- 5, United Kingdom- 2, Canada-1, Kenya- 1, Iraq- 1, Lebanon-2. 
Conference delegates were not selected on any basis. The Conference was widely advertised as one to which all interested persons were invited to attend and every woman or man who applied for registration was accepted. 
174. 
Financial assistance with fares and/or accommodation was given by the Australian Government to: 
Guest speakers. 
Chairwomen. 
Persons whose papers had been selected for presentation at the Conference who came from areas far distant from Brisbane or who belonged to voluntary or charitable organisations or minority groups. 
Two representatives of each women's health centre in Australia. 
A maximum of 50 persons from special interest groups which would otherwise be unrepresented. These groups were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
So far the only industry voluntary code on alcohol advertising which is operative is that adopted by the Australian Associated Brewers', and applies only to its members' products. I am informed that the Federated Wholesale Spirit Merchants Association of Australia has also finalised a recommended code which is currently being considered by the Media Council. 1 regard the Australian Associated Brewers' code as a positive first step and support the emphasis it gives to not relating drinking with the work situation or with driving. However, it does not go far enough in changing the nature and direction of liquor advertising. The only code that would be fully supported is one which rather than contributing to the promotion of increasing consumption, would involve the industry in contributing to the area of community education by promoting in a positive manner more enlightened drinking patterns. Such a code should also discourage drinking patterns that lead to problems, and encourage tolerance for those people who choose not to drink at all or to drink only occasionally. 
At the most recent Health Ministers' Conference a Working Party was established to investigate, amongst other things, the advertising of alcohol. This Working Party had its first meeting recently and I am informed that firm proposals will be forthcoming. 
In addition, my own officers are working on developing a comprehensive national program to reduce the alcohol related problems of our community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any research being carried out as to any possible medical side effects from chlorination of water supplies in areas such as the Spencer Gulf region of South Australia. I am, however, aware of recent moves in overseas countries to seek alternatives to chlorine for the purpose of rendering drinking water safe for use. 
Some concern has been expressed recently in the United States over the presence of a number of organic chemicals in public water supply systems. The results of research done so far, indicate that the chlorination process may contribute to the formation of chlorinated organic compounds. In view of the known toxicity of some of these compounds, the possible health hazards associated with their presence in water supplies is under consideration in the United States. 
There have also been some problems in that country associated with the use of chlorinated water in haemodialysis units. Such problems can be overcome by purification techniques such as are used in Australia. 
However, by virtue of its germicidal properties, comparatively low cost and ease of application, chlorine has been until now, the most widely used disinfectant for community water supplies. Chlorination remains the single most effective method of preventing outbreaks of water-borne disease. 
My Department is closely studying overseas developments, in particular the investigations that are proceeding into possible alternative water treatment methods that do not involve the use of chlorine. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The items listed below have a reimbursement price of $1.50 or less. They are still available as benefits for pensioners. These items are also available for persons with a subsidised health benefit entitlement excepting those marked with an asterisk which have a reimbursement price below 75c when prescribed as a packed line without instructions for use. The cost of each item for the 12 months ended 30 June 1 975 is shown in parenthesis after each item. 
Aluminium Hydroxide Gel Mixture 360 ml ($29,732)- Prescribed as an antacid. It is priced below $1.50 only when prescribed as a packed line. When prescribed with instructions for use the price is above $ 1 . 50. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(3) Enquiries have been made following press reports about a new type of artificial kidney machine developed in Japan. It would appear that the reports were not referring to an artificial kidney machine as a whole (which includes a blood pump, various gauges and other ancillary equipment) but only to the dialyser ( artificial kidney). 
A dialyser has been produced by ASAHI Medical Company in Japan but it is neither smaller nor more suitable than those available in Australia. Its cost at $70 is considerably higher than that of disposable dialysers currently marketed in Australia. 
I am unaware of any plans to market the Japanese product in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission set up by this Government established a Working Party to examine patient transport and mobile health services. The Working Party has an Advisory Committee representing the N.S.W. Ambulance Board, the Victorian Civil Ambulance Service, the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and the Australian Departments of Transport and Social Security. 
A discussion document entitled "Health Transport Policies for the 1970 's and 1980 's" has been distributed by the Working Party for comment by interested authorities, organisations and individuals. The Working Party will analyse the comments and draft a report for the Commission. I anticipate tabling the report later during the Budget session. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. Factors contributing to this situation:- 
the rapid build up of population- now approximately 37 000; 
the departure from Darwin of general practitioners working in Darwin before the cyclone; 
the overall increase in outpatient loading of between 20-30 per cent experienced in all Northern Territory hospitals as a result of the introduction of Medibank. 
Yes. Salary is a most important factor because of the great disparity that exists between the current levels of salary of medical officers in the Australian Public Service, the various States and the Capital Territory Health Commission. Other major considerations on which successful recruitment depends are the terms and conditions of employment as well as availability of suitable housing. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Representations made by the Northern Territory Branch of the Commonwealth Medical Officers' Association to the Minister are currently being examined by my Department and the Public Service Board. 
Not applicable. 
The matter is currently being examined by my Department and the Public Service Board. 
Medical Officers and Dentists in Northern Territory (Question No. 2927) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is Australian Government policy for all forms of cigarette and tobacco advertising to be banned. This has my full support. 
There is opposition to the proposed introduction of uniform legislation by the Australian and State Governments in respect of health warnings to accompany all forms of cigarette advertising, and consequently, the genuine cooperation needed for an effective voluntary Australian code may not be present. The code applying to television advertising is not being observed. 

 A voluntary code with application only to cigarette advertising will not realise the Government's policy, but to the extent that it may further that policy, I would be willing to consider the matter. 
Smoking in Public Places  (Question No. 2895) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the Conference of Australian Health Ministers in May 1975 in Perth, it was agreed that a joint working party of State and Australian Government officers be established to draw up model food legislation suitable for application throughout Australia. The formation of this working party is under active consideration by my Department and the State Departments of Health. 
One of the functions of the working party will be to define and clarify the roles to be played by the various authorities involved. 
Lead in the Atmosphere (Question No. 2755) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's letter has been answered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to a survey on smoking funded under the National Warning Against Smoking and conducted in JuneJuly 1974, approximately 37 per cent of Australian residents aged 16 years and over were smokers. 
Health: Precautions in Darwin  (Question No. 2921) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. I have asked my Department to obtain a copy of the report for detailed examination. 
and (3) See (1). 
The honourable gentleman will be aware of widespread demands from the Opposition and elsewhere in the community for a curb on the rate of increase of social services and welfare services provided by this Government. When we are in a financial position to provide this service it will be announced. 
The Opposition still peddles inaccurate information in the House on health matters. This propensity to confuse the facts with fanciful claims is quite consistent with its subservience to the feud-fomenting faction which prevents doctors talking to colleagues in the ACT unless the other colleagues toe the Australian Medical Association line on employment conditions. The Opposition spokesmen would do better to check the accuracy of the material they use in this House. The amount allocated in the Budget for Canberra and Woden Valley hospitals is 28 per cent higher than the expenditure in 1974-75. There are about 70 resident medical officers in the 2 hospitals, not 29. The hospitals are meeting the needs of patients with the staff available. Indeed, the resident staff give a free emergency service to the patients of private doctors, who are so bitter in opposition to other salaried appointments. 
The assertion that salaried specialists with 'doubtful medical qualifications' have been accepted is baseless and scurrilous. In the unprofessional Australian Capital Territory atmosphere a few medical practitioners are apparently so uncertain about their own standards and their ability to compete that they have to create grounds to slander salaried specialists. The honourable member for Murray will have to beware he does not become their little  Sir Echo.  Only one specialist is registered under the 12 months provisional procedure because that specialist's basic degree was taken in a university not recognised for automatic registration purposes in the ACT. However, what the honourable member for Murray did not say is that this specialist has post-graduate qualifications, including fellowship of the British and Australian Royal Colleges in the relevant specialty. He did not say that the same specialist worked for 7 years as a staff specialist in Hobart. So much for the claim that specialists have been accepted from medical schools that have not been recognised by any Australian medical registration board, to quote the phrase of the honourable member for Murray. I may add that the profession itself substantially provides the membership of the Board which approved the provisional registration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On advice of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission the Australian Government has recognised the need to assist with the training of general practitioners. Since 1973-74, funds have been made available under the Community Health Program to support the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners ' Family Medicine Program. 
The objectives of the Family Medicine Program are to improve standards in general practice, the recruitment of medical graduates to general practice and the availability of general practitioners in needy areas. The Program consists of two schemes to achieve these objectives. 
a voluntary training Program which is a formal post graduate course in general practice; there are currently in excess of 700 medical graduates in this part of the Program. 
a Re-orientation Course for medical practitioners who have been away from general practice for some time. There are currently some 60 doctors undertaking the Course. 
In 1974-75, $4. lm was allocated to the Family Medicine Program and it is anticipated that this will rise to $5. 5m in 1975-76. 
The Committee on Medical Schools of the Universities Commission which reported to the Government in July 1 973 commented on selection of medical students. It stated  inter alia  'There has been a good deal of research in Australia on the effectiveness of present selection methods. This has shown that, for university courses in general, selection on the basis of school leaving results, while by no means a perfect predictor of success at university, is nevertheless the best predictor available and there is as yet no evidence that there are simple ways of improving it'. The full text of the Committee's comment is contained in its report 'Expansion of Medical Education', paragraphs 9.45 to 9.52. 
The Australian Government has been concerned about the number of medical graduates proceeding into community practice. Following consideration of advice from the Universities Commission and Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the Australian Government provided special funds of over $ 1.2m during 1974 and 1975 to support the establishment of departments of community practice in eight university medical schools in association with community health centres. This program will enable medical students to participate in the practice of promoting health care delivery systems outside the hospital situation. It should encourage more students to proceed to general practice. 
The Government can assist to make the pharmacist a more effective member of the health team by; 
drawing attention to the need for changes in the education of pharmacists- as was done in the Report on Australian Health Manpower, submitted in February 1975. 
bringing to the attention of professional pharmacist organisations material on changing roles and functions, as is being done at present. 
participating in meetings of such professional organisations to explore ways and means of improving the pharmacists' contribution to the health team, as has been done frequently by members of my Department and of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
including provision for pharmacy services in some Community Health Centres, where appropriate, this has been done. 
bringing to the notice of those who administer community health services that provision for involvement of, or co-operation with, pharmacists is essential; this is done. (0 preparing and distributing material to hospitals, describing new roles and functions for hospital pharmacists; this material is in preparation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- by virtue of the advisory role through the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The direct activity in the Capital Territory which was formerly carried out by my Department is now one of the functions of the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
Yes- this role is carried out firstly through the National Health and Medical Research Council, in particular through the Committees listed below with their terms of reference: 
Public Health Advisory Committee  (PHAC)  'to inquire into and advise the Council on all matters of public health and preventive medicine and matters involving health legislation and administration by the Commonwealth and State Governments'. 
Environmental Health Committee (EHC) 'to consider all environmental factors which may influence health and wellbeing and report to Council through the PHAC' 
Air Pollution Control Subcommittee 'to inquire into and advise the EHC on: 
Ambient air quality standards; 
Emission standards for air pollutants. 
Ad hoc Subcommittee on the Effects of Lead in Air 'to inquire into and advise the EHC on the effects of ambient lead m air on human health and the needs for research '. and secondly through representation on Australian Government Interdepartmental Committees as follows: 
National Air Quality Criteria (convened by the Department of Environment) 
Membership includes representatives of the Departments of Environment, Health, Science and Consumer Affairs, Urban and Regional Development, Treasury, and CSIRO, the Bureau of Meteorology and the Australian Government Analyst. 
It is concerned with the development of national policies for air monitoring in Australia and has a Working Group to advise on two major areas: 
A National Atmospheric Data Bank: 
Design and use of mobile monitoring units. 
Advisory Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions (convened by the Department of Transport) 
The Committee comprises representatives of Australian and State Departments of Health, Environment and Transport and representatives of the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries and the Petroleum Industry Executive Council for the Environment. The  Chairman  is an officer of the Australian Department of Transport. 
The Committee's function is to advise on motor vehicle emission standards, to keep a watching brief on overseas developments and to liaise with health and environment officials in Australia. 
The Australian and State Governments have been working closely together for many years. Discussions are continuing and various Australian and State Government Departments participate in these. In respect of the Australian Capital Territory there has formerly been close and continuing discussions between my department and the National Capital Development Commission on the matter. Recently, the role played by my Department passed to the Capital Territory Health Commission when that authority was instituted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended in its publication Atmospheric Contaminates Threshold limit Values representing conditions under which it is believed that nearly all workers may be repeatedly exposed to lead in the atmosphere day after day at work without adverse effect. 
The value for lead appears in Section 1.1 (page 7 of the publication) at 150 micrograms per cubic metre: a timeweighted average concentration for a 40 hour working week. 
Four categories of lead absorption, based on blood lead levels had been defined for industrial settings: less than 40 ug/ 100 ml- normal  40-80 ug/ 100 ml-acceptable 80-120 ug/100 ml-excessive  greater than 120 ug/100 ml- dangerous These levels are not regarded as applicable to the population in general, and to children in particular. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not made any recommendations relating to lead levels in air or in the blood which are applicable to the general community. 
The occupational levels are in agreement with those set in the United States and the United Kingdom. 
A number of studies have indicated that food and beverages are the major contributors to blood lead levels. However, lead in air does add to the total body burden of lead. While there appears to be a margin for allowance of several micrograms of lead per cubic metre of air for adults, there may not be such a margin for children. 
The concentration of lead in air breathed by people in large cities is generally considerably higher than in suburban or rural areas. Because a large proportion of Australians live in large cities the need to specify maximum permissible levels of lead in general ambient air has been recognised and is being investigated by appropriate committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Blood lead levels are the most widely accepted indicators of exposure to lead and therefore the need to specify critical exposure blood lead levels for the general population is recognized. 
(i) The Victorian Environment Protection Agency has supplied the following data from their internal report No. AQ4 Particulate Lead Concentrations in Melbourne Air 
In Melbourne samples were taken on 12 separate days between June 1974 and February 1975. The sampling position was 2 metres from the kerb side in Parliament Place. A sampling time of approximately 1 hour was used and a sample size of approximately lm1 was used. Daytime averages were calculated by taking the mean of the hourly measurements. Selected results are given here: 
Highest daytime average- 3.9 ug/m' Highest hourly reading- 6.1 ug/m3 Range of daytime averages- 1.7- 3.9 ug/m' (for the 12 days concerned) 
The N.S.W. State Pollution Control Commission has supplied the following information: 
In Sydney 24 hour samples were taken every six days. The maximum for each month is the maximum 24 hour sample in that month. Data for four sites have been provided. With the exception of one site, the monitors were well away from roads. Therefore the Sydney figures should not be compared with those from Melbourne as lead concentration decreases with increasing distance from the source. Selected results are given as: 
Highest monthly average- 3.95 ug/m1 
George Street site (for period January to June 1975) Highest monthly maximum- 6.12 ug/m' 
George Street site (for period January to June 1975) 1 974 yearly average- 1 . 12 ug/m' (City site but monitor away from road) 1 974 maximum- 3.64 ug/m' (same site as for 1 974 average) 
A specific recommendation on emissions of lead from motor vehicles was made by Council in May 1973, at its Seventy-sixth Session: 
Council noted overseas proposals to reduce concentrations of lead alkyls in gasoline. Council agreed that, from available data, the inhalation of air containing lead from the emissions of motor vehicles using gasoline containing lead alkyls does not cause clinical human poisoning: however, exposure to such emissions adds to the total body burden of lead, the possible biological effects of which need much further study. 
Council recommended that, pending the result of such studies, measures be adopted to ensure that emission of lead from motor vehicles is not increased. 
Council, at its Seventy-seventh Session, November 1973, recommended quantitative limits to the concentration of lead in petrol: 
Council considered available data on the effect on human health of the emissions of lead from motor vehicles. 
Council recommended, pending the results of further studies on the biological effects of lead that measures be adopted to ensure that emissions of lead from motor vehicles are not increased. To satisfy this requirement, Council recommended that the concentration of lead in petrol be limited to: 
0.60 gram per litre (3-month average) with a maximum of 0.84 gram per litre as from 1 January 1 974. 
0.S0 gram per litre (3-month average) with a maximum reading of 0.60 gram per litre for any one sample as from 1 January 1975. 
Council recognised the possible need for further progressive reductions in the concentrations of lead in petrol m order to ensure that lead emissions from motor vehicles are contained at existing levels; however, Council agreed that a valid projection of this need could not be made until developments in the uses of alternative energy sources and the viability of the lead filter are made known. 
The emissions of lead from motor vehicles means the total mass emission of lead emitted into the atmosphere by the total population of motor vehicles in Australia. 
These recommendations were sent to the relevant State and Australian Government Departments and representatives of the oil industry. New South Wales and Victoria have both legislated to reduce the lead content of petrol. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume that the question relates to the recommendations contained in the "Report of a WHO Expert CommitteeSmoking and its Effects on Health- issued under the Technical Report Series 568, Geneva 1975". 
These recommendations and the general question of smoking in public places are receiving careful and continuing study in my Department and are under active consideration by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
My concern regarding smoking in public places and the associated discomfort and health hazard this causes to nonsmokers is well-known, and is supported by the great volume of representations received by me and my Department. 
The Department is currently looking into the possibility of the Government setting an example in this area by prohibiting smoking in various facilities under its control. The possibility of segregating portions of the Department of Health's Central Office in Canberra, so as to protect the rights of the non-smoker, is being studied. Smoking is prohibited in lifts in the Central Office of my Department, and smoking in lifts in other Australian Government Departments is being investigated. 
I have sought a ban on smoking in government buses in the A.C.T., and my Department is examining legislation relating to smoking in taxis in the A.C.T. and Northern Territory. We have been successful in acquiring a greater allocation of non-smoking seating in aircraft and all Australian airlines are co-operating in this matter in a most responsible and receptive manner. 
Posters, desk signs and other material with themes such as 'Thank you for not smoking' or 'Please do not smoke here' are available free of charge from the Department and from various agencies in the States. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) All refugees arriving in Darwin have been subjected to complete 'ba'ggage search to prevent entry into Australia of disease carrying material such as live animals, foodstuffs of animal origin and plants. All refugees were examined by medical officers on arrival. They were given anti-malarial treatment to prevent the disease becoming endemic in this country. In respect of those staying in Australia there was further medical scrutiny within the resources available in Darwin. Chest x-rays were taken immediately where the need for this was indicated. It was arranged that all adult refugees remaining in Darwin would have a chest x-ray. 
Arrangements also were made on the movement of refugees to southern cities, for State tuberculosis authorities to carry out radiological examinations of adults and when considered necessary skin tests of children. 
These strict precautions have been enforced, although of the diseases mentioned, only Newcastle Disease is known to exist on Timor. 
Medical Staff in Northern Territory (Question No. 2925) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) In each of the three years of the campaign, Australian Government projects were funded in conjunction with State Government activities in anti-smoking education. The funds involved were: 
The allocation of these funds was rationalised by the Advisory Committee on Smoking Education to co-ordinate projects and avoid duplication. Amongst the projects funded were: 
An intensive advertising campaign using the broadcast media, the press and notices in public transport to warn people of the health hazards of smoking. 
Wide coverage in the printed media aimed at the late thirties to early fifties age group and persons in parental situations. 
A Children's Anti-Smoking Advertisement Contest aimed at the 9-14 year olds was intended to dissuade children from smoking, by the use of discovery-learning techniques. 
The National Warning Against Smoking was funded for the triennium concluding on 30th June, 1975 and the Australian Government decided not to fund it in 1975-76, apart from commitments already made. $25,000 has been made available for distribution to State Governments and $75,000 is required to meet commitments on the Children's Anti-Smoking Advertisement Contest. 
Surveys have been conducted during the course of the campaign and it is intended that there should be a thorough evaluation of the overall campaign before commiting to further policies in this area. The surveys show an increasing percentage of non-smokers; 60.5% in August, 1972, 61.0% in January, 1974 and 61.6% in July, 1974. However, within this general increasing percentage of non-smokers, discontinuing smokers in the older age groups are offset by large numbers 'of schoolchildren smokers and women smokers who are acquiring the habit. 
Immigrants from Chile: Limitation on Political Activities (Question No. 3010) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 understand that there have been difficulties involved in the establishment of the Adelaide Women's Health Collective Centre in a permanent building in Hindmarsh. 
The Centre is currently operating on a limited basis from temporary premises. The proposal involves establishing a permanent centre in a rented two-storey building. 
I am informed that the delays in establishing the permanent centre have been largely related to the Collective's organisation and the necessity for compliance with State regulations concerning the expenditure of, and accounting for, public monies. In this regard, the honourable member will be aware that the centre is being funded through the relevant State health authority, namely, the South Australian Hospitals Department. 
Other factors contributing to the lack of progress in the establishment of the permanent centre were difficulties in locating adequate available accommodation, the protracted negotiations with the owner of the property and difficulties experienced by the Collective in arranging for renovations and additions to the proposed permanent centre. 
In respect of 1974-75, approved allocations to this centre were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my view, the only satisfactory situation would be one where no passenger on Australian domestic aircraft wished to smoke and no seating provision need be made for smokers. We have not yet attained that goal, but I regard the new non-smoking seating arrangements as a significant improvement on the previous arrangements. The airline companies have been most co-operative in increasing the area of non-smoking seating and have agreed to review and adjust the seating arrangements in the light of experience. 
1 understand that the percentage of non-smoking seats on Australian internal aircraft, currently about 30 per cent, is comparable with general airline practice throughout the world. 
The smoking and non-smoking seating arrangements differ according to the type of aircraft and the airline concerned. For example, one company provides non-smoking seats on the left hand side of the aircraft only and the other major airline has these seats allocated on both sides of the aisle. In some instances the first row is allocated to smokers, but in other aircraft the non-smoking area includes the first row on the left hand side. 
As I have already indicated the only arrangement which would, in my opinion, be completely satisfactory, is one where there are no seats at all in which smoking is permitted. 
I note that a similar question has been directed to my colleague the Minister for Transport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The sessional fees being paid to doctors in Canberra are those provided in the determination handed down by  Mr C.  J. Bannon, Q.C., on 6 June 1975. 
and (3) The information required for these parts will be made available by my colleague the Minister for Social Security. 
This information is presently being taken out by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
It is not a fact that any have been closed in the Australian Capital Territory and the details of comparative costs are currently being investigated. I will be pleased to make the results available as soon as the investigations are complete. 
CSIRO Computer Network  (Question No. 3094) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The hospital specified does deal, in large pan, with alcohol and other drug related cases.  Dr Drew  's special function with the Department of Health also relates to these matters. 
The hospital is operated along the same lines, and with the same financial arrangements, as any other private acute medical hospital. It operates within Medibank. 
The Delmont Private Hospital is registered in Victoria as an acute medical hospital. 
5 ) It is a commercial concern. 

 Dr Drew is a Medical Services Adviser with the Department of Health, his salary is $21,681, and he was previously a psychiatrist, in private practice in Melbourne, who used the facilities of Delmont Hospital for the treatment of some of his patients. He had, at no time, any financial interest in Delmont Hospital. 

 Dr Drew left private practice to enter the Public Service and is not engaged in any private practice. 

 Dr J. R. Moon, with whom  Dr Drew  was in partnership, is the  President  of the Australian Foundation for Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (AFADD) 
AFADD has this year, in 1975-76, been allocated $154,350 for its operations as a national body responsible to encourage and co-ordinate the development of voluntary agency activity related to alcohol and drugs throughout Australia.  Dr Moon  receives a quarterly presidential expenses allowance of $125 plus travelling and accommodation expenses, and $ 10 per day personal allowance, for attendance at Board meetings and other official functions. 
Research on Federal Financial Relations: Australian National University (Question No.  2826) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. There seems to be a rel ationship between the consumption of alcohol and its cost as related to average weekly earnings, e.g. as relative cost decreases so per capita consumption of alcohol increases, as also do alcohol-related problems. 
There is considerable evidence from Australia and other countries to substantiate these relationships. This evidence has recently been reviewed by Popham Schmidt and de Lint, of the Addiction Research Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Evidence contained in the recently published 'Report of the Standing Committee on the Health Problems of Alcohol of the National Health and Medical Research Council, April 1975', and in a paper 'Statistics of Alcohol', prepared by the Central Statistical Unit, of my Department, 22 July 1974, gives further support to these conclusions so far as Australia is concerned. I will arrange for copies of these publications to be provided to the honourable member if he so wishes. 
The best way to reduce excessive alcohol consumption in Australia today is by using the following methods: 
Encouraging early recognition of the problem drinker and, having identified him, the approach should be therapeutic and not punitive. Attention should for instance be focused on the young drunken driver, people who present for medical treatment of alcohol-associated problems, and people who have problems at work because of their drinking. 
Changing the law so that all persons committing alcohol-related offences would be required to have counselling. 
Introducing a program in industry to identify the alcoholic and encourage him to accept treatment. 
Developing special education workshops in schools and the community which would outline the dangers and problems associated with the use of alcohol in the course of discussing those social customs, interhuman relationships and other problems which determine sensible or unwise use of alcohol, as well as the related problems of use of other drugs, sexual adjustment, academic, vocational and other matters of concern to youth, in a non-judgmental, non-directive atmosphere conducive to national group consensus on responsible group behaviour, with teachers and parents invited. 
Introducing other measures such as altering the impact of advertising, the use of high levels of excise to discourage consumption, and encouraging the work and activities of such organisations as the Australian Foundation for Alcoholism and Drug Dependency and Alcoholics Anonymous. 
I am not aware of the intentions of the tobacco companies but I know from what has happened overseas that when broadcasting advertising has been banned they have channelled vast resources into advertising in colour magazines, on billboards, in cinemas and other areas and I have no doubt that would happen to some extent at least in this country when we impose our ban, as we have promised, in September next year. The States have agreed on very limited restraints, I should say, on the promotion of smoking. They have agreed that they will move to have a warning incorporated in all forms of advertising by the same date- September next year. I should have hoped they would agree to something with a little more bite. However, let us not get things out of perspective. If all tobacco advertising were banned immediately it would not restrain the tendency for increased consumption of tobacco. The Soviet Union, Sweden and other countries have had complete bans on all forms of tobacco advertising but have still suffered from an increase in consumption. Obviously what has to happen is that we have to give smoking an image which makes it repulsive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I also then said that the hospital would pay the doctor. 
No. The A.C.T. will not be different from the States in this regard at all. The hospital authorities in the A.C.T. advertised sessional appointments which might have been granted to any or all of the private doctors practising in the A.C.T. The authorities were thus attempting to give effect to the government's objective of having a wide range of choice of doctor available to medibank patients. The whole question of their contractual relationship with the hospital for payment of services is a separate consideration entirely. If a wide choice of doctors were available and the patient selected his own doctor from such a number for his treatment whilst in hospital I believe the patients, the hospital authorities and the government would have been well pleased and prepared to co-operate in providing a health care delivery system which allowed this to happen providing it did so at an economical cost to the Australian taxpayer. 
I do not have the exact figures of the number of health centres in Australia but there are some hundreds. When this Government came to power, as I said in response to a question on hospitals earlier this week, there was no concerted effort at the national level to integrate hospital facilities. Indeed, the States were floundering in attempts to integrate services. We had the spectacle of things like baby health centres, immunisation clinics, marriage guidance services and all kinds of activities trying to sustain themselves in isolation. All sorts of voluntary organisations were making initiatives to help autistic children or spastic children or whatever. There was no integration, no attempt even to evaluate the services or the need for services. We have set about following the guidelines in the first report which was brought down in the first 6 months of this Government's office by the interim committee of the newly formed Hospitals and Health Services Commission. We had a signal success in achieving integration, a new direction in health care, a new concern on behalf of the States and a new integration of their efforts and ours and those of voluntary organisations. We had a signal success in upgrading the job satisfaction of doctors and other professionals who work in this area, a significant success in involving the community in what is increasingly a matter of community responsibility- to take responsibility for its own health and not leave it to professionals in ivory towers, to move health care out of the highly expensive area of institutions and hospitals and into the community. This success will continue. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question 3110 published in  Hansard of  1 October 1975 at page 1598. 
The Australian Government does not discriminate against any State in its health programs. The Government has encouraged a more rational approach to the planning and provision of health services throughout Australia. We have ordered government priorities on the basis of need. The Department of Health and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission have depended on the cooperation and participation of State health authorities. Despite the Opposition's fanning the claims of federalist confrontation, the health field is one of harmonious relationship with the States. Victoria has missed out in relative terms in allocations for health programs. For instance, Victoria received only $20,000 of the $500,000 made available for health planning and research this year that is, research into the delivery of health care, administration and so on. I announced recently the finance for the first 5 school dental clinics in Victoria, whereas all other States began building school dental clinics last financial year. Although final decisions have not been reached Victoria will receive about $4m this year for the school dental scheme compared with, for example, about $4.8m for Western Australia. 
Community health projects in Victoria this year will absorb $15m compared with more than twice that amount $30.3m in New South Wales. Last year Victoria received about $5m for community health facilities compared with more than $ 14m for New South Wales, which is nearly treble that amount. The obvious loss in revenue for Victoria is not due to any ideological or philosophic objection to the Australian Government's program or to our involvement. Rather it stems from the archaic and fragmented structure of health administration in Victoria which has recently been alluded to in the SymeTownsend report. It encourages inefficiency and poor coordination at all levels. Shortcomings in the bureaucracy are aggravated by the Liberal tradition of relying on private initiative to satisfy health needs. Certainly self help and community involvement should be encouraged but some 
Government guidance is essential; otherwise the inequalities in the distribution of health services are accentuated. 
Unlike this Government, the Opposition and its colleagues in power in Victoria rely mainly on private initiative even in the provision of essential public health services. The most vocal sections of the community are generally those in the least need, but they obtain the best services. A Liberal-National Country Party government at the national level would abandon our rational approach to the provision of health services. The result would be a reversion to stagnation by neglecting their responsibilities to the public and pandering instead to private interest. Those in the greatest need would be forced in due course to rely on second rate health services. In fact on all the figures that have so far been produced by the Leader of the Opposition and by the shadow Treasurer as to where their expenditure would go we would have to cut health spending by 12 per cent. That would require a drastic deficiency in the Northern Territory, in the Australian Capital Territory and in services provided by the States or a crippling imposition of charges- a backward step, a great leap back to the 1950s- for services which are now free. 
The details of the implications of blocking the Appropriation Bills have not been worked out for the Department of Health, and I doubt whether they have been worked out for any other department. They would be far-reaching and devastating. 
Would you like it? It seems that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would like a copy of the badge I am wearing. I will see that he gets one. 
It says: 'Shame Fraser Shame'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A working group of the Standing Committee on the Health Problems of Alcohol of the National Health and Medical Research Council was set up in August 1974 to investigate the possibilities of surveying alcohol associated illness and facilities for its treatment in Australia. This group designed a draft questionnaire which is included in the published report of the committee as Appendix IV. The questionnaire was to be tested through a research design and procedure to be devised and implemented by the Victorian State Mental Health Authority. 
An initial feasibility study of the questionnaire is just being completed by the Alcoholism and Drug Dependence Branch of the Victorian Mental Health Authority and the results of this study are expected at an early date. 
A full scale survey will be considered as soon as these results are available. In the course of planning the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Health Problems of Alcohol of the National Health and Medical Research Council will be considered, including the setting up of a statistical team. The newly appointed Medical Services Adviser on Drugs of Dependence has already done some preparatory work on this matter and will continue to give it high priority. 
It is anticipated, on the basis of earlier discussions, that State authorities will co-operate in a well designed survey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
40000. 
The estimated annual cost of producing printing and mailing six issues of the journal per year is $ 1 33,000. Three issues only will be produced in the 1975/76 financial year. This compares with an estimated $66,000 a year for 1 1 issues per year of the Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin (45 000 copies per issue), an estimated $35,250 a year for three issues of the British Prescribers' Journal (25 000 copies per issue), and an estimated $28,500 a year for Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee circulars, all of which will be incorporated in the Australian Prescriber. 
Yes. But it was considered that existing journals would not provide a sufficiently objective and independent medium for the service to medical practitioners that the Government considers my Department should provide. The Australian Prescriber, with its independent Editorial Board, will provide a regular, balanced, objective review of management and medication which, it is hoped, will lead to acceptance of the journal as authoritative in its field. It will replace the Pre.scribers' Journal which has been well received but has less scope for an Australian emphasis, and the Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin, which has stimulated awareness and reporting of side effects of prescribed drugs. 
Doctors, pharmacists, dentists, medical teaching staff, medical libraries, hospital matrons and senior tutor sisters, medical students in their final three years, pharmaceutical companies, and member countries of the World Health Organisation. 
For the information of honourable members I present a discussion paper entitled  Provision of Health Services in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Unfortunately, as a result of the need for reductions in Government expenditure, it has not been possible to proceed with the implementation of a domiciliary dental service at this time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, it was reported that the head was in a state of decomposition which precluded positive identification of the breed. 
When this Government came to power hospital facilities were badly located. They were too narrow in their purpose and too expensive in operation. There was a gross inadequacy of beds in outer metropolitan areas where population is expanding. As a result of the Australian Labor Party Government's initiative in introducing the hospitals development program, planning has been advanced for need areas such as Westmead, Campbelltown, Gosford-Wyong, Port Kembla-Shellharbour and Wollongong in New South Wales, Sunshine in western Melbourne and Mount Gravatt in south-west Brisbane. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission has identified other areas of need which still have to be negotiated with the States and brought to their attention for planning. These include peripheral areas of Perth, north and west Melbourne, south Sydney and south Brisbane. The eastern shore of Hobart will also achieve a higher priority because of Australian Government help. These projects would inevitably be delayed by a Liberal-National Country Party government. They would not have the priority this Government will give them. 
The Leader of the Opposition has indicated in both his federalism and company tax proposals that he favours a  laissez-faire  approach to budgeting. He would court the private sector and cut back the growth of specific purpose funds to the States. This would seriously curtail the Federal Government's role in hospital planning and development and support private hospitals in preference to public hospitals. While waiting with bated breath for another slip of the honourable member for Hotham's tongue from which to piece together the Opposition's health policy, this is the only conclusion we can draw. This  laissez-faire  formula is short-sighted and it would fragment our Federation. The Fraser federalism formula would be a great leap backward in meeting Australia's health care needs. The Australian Government has a responsibility to help provide fairly distributed and accessible health facilities for all Australians, not just those fortunate enough to live in affluent, established suburbs where most outer city hospitals were built before this Government came to power and launched a national hospitals and health services commission. If Australians were beguiled into buying a Liberal-National Country Party government such a government would downgrade public health facilities as part of its incestuous romance with the private sector. It would favour private practitioners and institutions and scarcity and accessibility for the rich before the sick. The overall health care available to the average Australian would suffer from just one more example of the Opposition's well established elitism. 
Our joint hospitals works councils which are now operating smoothly in every State have cemented Federal-State relations. We allocated $108m this year to develop public hospitals and committed ourselves to at least the same sum for further years, while the previous Government had no program of hospital development. Our record could never be matched by the Opposition on its previous form or on its platform. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The four matters in dispute on which recommendations were made to me by  Sir Walter  Scott,  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, were the subject of a letter of 5 September 1975 to me from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. In this letter the Guild set out its request for arbitration on these matters. The Guild 's request for arbitration is currently being examined. 
No. 
The Government has not yet decided what course of action it will be taking on the Guild 's request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The acceptance testing and calibration of hearing aids and the assembly of pre-production prototypes of new models of hearing aids will be undertaken in the new premises. 
The assembly of Calaid hearing aids for issue to eligible clients will continue to be carried out by commercial contractors and the Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. There have been some suggestions that people, who by virtue of inheritance and solar exposure have a high risk of skin cancer, may be more prone to this affliction if they habitually consume large quantities of polyunsaturated fatty acids. This hypothesis is based on only a small number of observations and no corroborative human studies have been reported to date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) United Kingdom qualified nurses are accepted in all States and Territories of Australia provided that the program of nurse training that they have undertaken in the 
United Kingdom is equivalent to the program of nurse training which leads to registration in the professional area in which they seek recognition. There are some nurse training programs in the United Kingdom which have no equivalent in Australia. Applications by nurses from the United Kingdom are assessed on an individual basis by each registration board. 
If the training program undertaken by the applicant is deficient in any field which the State or Territory registering authority has declared mandatory in their equivalent program, the nurse seeking recognition would be required to rectify the deficiency before being recognised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The National Health and Medical Research Council (NH&amp;MRC) has had the matter of the use of analgesics under review for a number of years and has made the following recommendations: 
A warning label, similar to that required by the United 
States Food and Drug Administration, drawing attention to the possible dangers of taking phenacetin should be required on all preparations containing phenacetin when sold without prescription; the warning should read as follows: 
'WARNING- THIS MEDICATION MAY BE DANGEROUS WHEN USED IN LARGE AMOUNTS OR FOR A LONG PERIOD'. 
(64th Session, April 1967) 
A warning label drawing attention to the possible dangers should be required on all packages of preparations containing salicylates, phenacetin or paracetamol when sold without prescriptions; the warning should read as follows: . 
' WARNING- THIS MEDICATION MAY BE DANGEROUS WHEN USED IN LARGE AMOUNTS OR FOR A LONG PERIOD'. 
(68th Session, May 1969) 
A warning label drawing attention to the possible dangers should be required on all packages of preparations for internal human therapeutic use containing salicylic acid, its salts, its derivatives and their salts, phenacetin or paracetamol when sold without prescription; the warning should read as follows: 'WARNING- THIS MEDICATION MAY BE DANGEROUS WHEN USED IN LARGE AMOUNTS OR FOR A LONG PERIOD'. ( 69th Session, November 1 969) 
Council approved the following warning labelling for analgesic preparations containing salicylic acid, its salts, its derivatives and their salts, phenacetin or paracetamol when sold without prescription. This warning might be used as an alternative to the warning label recommended at the 69th Session: 'CAUTION-THIS PREPARATION IS FOR THE RELIEF OF MINOR AND TEMPORARY AILMENTS AND SHOULD BE USED STRICTLY AS DIRECTED. PROLONGED USE WITHOUT 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The reason for the increased profits over the two years was an increase in sales combined with the fact that operating expenses in some areas did not increase proportionately to the increased revenue. No doubt good management control also contributed to the increased profit. 
The Fawnmac Companies are companies registered under the Victorian Companies Act. As such there are no partners in the enterprise. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Value of stock as at 30 June 1975- $1,65 1,394. The basis of value of the stock was the lower of cost or replacement value. 
Stocks of promotion materials were not valued as these costs are written off in the year of purchase of the promotion materials. 
Unappropriated profits at 30 June 1975 of the Fawnmac Companies the shares for which were purchased by the Government 
Unappropriated profits reserve 1 ,280, 1 50 Capital profits reserve . . . 777,219 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I am aware that Fawnmac has written a letter to thenoverseas suppliers informing them of the change of ownership of the companies and this would include suppliers in Eastern Europe. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have asked the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee to review the list of pharmaceutical benefits with a view to the possible deletion of items which fall in categories such as those listed by the honourable member. I am presently awaiting relevant recommendations from the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present agreement between CSL and the Fawnmac Companies expires on 17 February 1976 and in accordance with that agreement 12 months notice of termination was required. Notice of termination was given accordingly and a new arrangement is currently being negotiated. 
No contract has been signed by CSL with Sigma for penicillin tablets. 
Sand Mining on Fraser Island: Survey of Public Opinion (Question No. 3375) 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for 1974-75. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See(l). 
No application for a project grant has been received. An application for a sholarship is being considered. 
Officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs: Australian Citizenship (Question No. 3261) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I am unaware of the average time taken by the FDA to approve new drugs I am unable to comment on this point. However I am informed that while the FDA does have a time schedule for processing applications this schedule is not consistently met. It is also fair to say that a number of important new drugs have in fact been granted marketing approval in Australia before the United States. 
and (3) While there are two vacancies for pharmacologists which have not been filled because of departmental staff ceilings, the shortage is not such that there will be up to S years delay before some drug applications are available for marketing registration. 
The Department is presently negotiating with a number of countries, including those mentioned to institute reciprocal arrangements for drug evaluations. At the same time the National Council of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industries through its member companies with overseas principals and affiliates, is collaborating to ascertain their views on reciprocal arrangements. Preliminary communications indicate favourable responses from some of the drug control authorities contacted. However to date the Department has received no response from the NCCPI as to the attitude of the drug companies towards allowing the overseas evaluations to be made available to my Department on a confidential basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Analysis of future health manpower requirements and the making of recommendations thereon is being undertaken by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. The Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Committee on Technical and Further Education are all represented on the Committee on Health Careers (Personnel and Training), formed by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission to advise it on health manpower matters. Furthermore, initiatives by the Universities Commission to determine future health manpower requirements, specifically of medical practitioners and dentists, have both been conducted in close collaboration with the Department of Health. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission, in its report 'Australian Health Manpower' which was tabled in Parliament in March 197S, recommended increases in the output of occupational therapists, physiotherapists and speech pathologists. The Commission also recommended an increased output in other health occupations, not mentioned in the Question on Notice- viz., chiropodists, medical record librarians and optometrists. The Commission made no recommendations on increasing the supply of nurses for the reasons advanced in Chapter 19 of the Report. 
Recommendations to the Australian Government on dental and medical manpower were basically made by the Universities Commission in its report of December 1974 ' Future Demand for Dentists in Australia- A Survey of the Supply of and Future Requirements for Dentists' and of July 1973 'Expansion of Medical Education' respectively. 
The recommendations made in respect of therapists were that the interim targets for occupational therapists, physiotherapists and speech pathologists in active practice be a ratio of one per 10 000, 5000 and 20 000 population respectively. The extent to which plans relating to courses in 1976-78 will facilitate achievement of these recommended interim targets cannot yet be determined. 
Not applicable- see reply to part 2 above. 
The long term effectiveness of all health services is dependent upon the availability of suitable personnel, and in this regard the Community Health Program and the School Dental Scheme are no exception. The recommendations made concerning increased supply in the various health occupations have been made having regard to the total demand on those personnel including that of the Community Health Program. Similarly the forecast of demand for dentists includes the demand of the School Dental Scheme. In addition, the demands of the School Dental Scheme for dental therapists will be met by the establishment of training schools for dental therapists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, I was aware that the Liberal-Country Party Government had in November 1972 made an interim order under the Companies (Foreign Take-Overs) Act 1972 prohibiting the sale of shares in the Fawnmac Group to Syntex 
1 was aware that the business was purchased from the Lowe family. However, this was a private transaction between the Lowe family and UNITUS Pty Ltd and as such I am unaware of the details of the purchase price. I might add, this was the only wholly owned Australian company which AIDC recommended to the Australian Government for purchase. The terms of the purchase were the best that could be negotiated by AIDC. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in amplification of a question on notice that was answered earlier this week. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I refer to a statement contained in an article which appeared in the  Sunday Independent  of 2 November 1975. This statement was that I, the Minister for Health, had misled Parliament with an unfounded claim that quarantine services would be endangered should the constitutional crisis in Canberra remain unresolved. The article went on to quote my statement in the House on Tuesday 28 October in reply to a question without notice, in which I had given as a specific example the fact that continued blocking of the Budget would prevent the surveillance of the most strict quarantine service in the world and this could bring foot and mouth disease to this country. The article then stated that in reply to a contact with the Health Department in Canberra, the reporter had been told that there was no question whatsoever of quarantine breaking down because quarantine services are operated by the States and paid for by the Commonwealth every 6 months. The next 6-monthly claim would not be due until well into the new year and the only immediate impact on the blockage of Supply, the officer was reported to say, would be when health funds ran out there would be no money to pay the small staff of the Quarantine Section of the Health Department headquarters in Canberra but that they would work without pay. 
I regret to say that the officer of the department misinformed the reporter. The situation is as I reported to Parliament. It is true that payment for quarantine services carried out by the States is made in advance, but quarterly, not 6- monthly. However, the payment up until the end of December is already deficient to the extent of $160,000. Any provision of services after that time would be by the grace of the States and at their expense until such time as the Australian Government moneys became available. 
Unless additional funds become available there will not be money in the near future to purchase supplies for such procedures as disinfection of aircraft carried out by personnel of the Health Department and this is irrespective of whether those officers are prepared to work without having received their salaries. Furthermore, there will be no money to pay for the services of part-time quarantine medical officers. I regret that the reporter was misinformed but when matters of grave moment are raised on the spur of the moment on the telephone without going through the appropriate departmental channels, such errors must sometimes occur. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has put words into the mouth of the Governor-General which tend to convey the impression that the Government wants democracy. On the first page of the printed copy of Governor-General's Speech the Government pledges itself to work in partnership with all groups, but on page 4 of that Speech we see that the partnership is really the relationship of master and servant. The Government there undertakes to encourage involvement of employees in improving safety, job conditions and satisfaction and productivity. 
As the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  suggested in this debate, this is a welcome breath of fresh air. Perhaps it is the only one in a speech full of platitudinous promises. However, I fear it will remain an empty promise. It will not solve the growing problems of industrial confrontation until there is also provision for employees, and consumers too, to participate not only in improving safety, job conditions and satisfaction and productivity but also in what is the basic activity of industry, namely, setting the long term policies of industry- the planning of social objectives. If the employees and consumers, the producers and consumers, are not involved in the planning of the social impact of an industry, that industry will become a growing arena for confrontation. That is the direction in which we are heading. 
The fifth priority among the Government's priorities listed on page 2 of the Governorgeneral's Speech is to promote independence and self respect for the disadvantaged. I want to pay some attention to the specific proposals which are made to achieve that end. The fact that the Government has maintained the Labor Government's initiative of having a separate Department of Aboriginal Affairs would suggest that it considers that just being Aboriginal in itself may at times be a disadvantage. Despite promises made at the last two elections, funds allocated to overcome those disadvantages have been cut in all areas- health, education, housing, work projects and industrial enterprises by Aboriginals. The cuts were sometimes in actual dollars, but in all cases they were cuts in real terms if we allow for inflation. 
Real cuts in real value. It is true that some Aboriginal enterprises have been failures. The most publicised of those was perhaps a turtle farming project in the Torres Islands. Let me remind those honourable members who have short memories that that project was started under a Liberal Government, was conducted by white self styled experts with scant regard for Aboriginal aims and interests, and was uncovered only after an investigation was set up by the first Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  By contrast, in those cases where a genuine Aboriginal enterprise is proposed by Aboriginals for genuine Aboriginal needs, the funds do not appear to be forthcoming. A scheme to train a group of Aboriginals in erecting pre-cut homes for Aboriginals in Queensland has, I am advised, been turned down without explanation, despite an able and detailed submission. At the same time a continuing health project in Queensland has been allocated several thousand dollars for the purchase of a truck and a video tape recorder to be used for evaluation. I am awaiting further details of these projects. It seems that the pious hope expressed on page 8 of the Governor-General's Speech, namely, to give the public access to government documents in those cases where it will not harm the public interest, remains a pious hope to anyone who may want details of projects of that kind. 
The claim is made that the projected new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement will increase accommodation opportunities for low and moderate income earners. Like the rest of the sweeping promises for everyone in the Speech, nothing is said of where the money will come from. Meanwhile, fewer houses are being built under government contracts and otherwise. It seems that the States are to be put on the spot to raise their own money to meet all these promises by imposing their own supplementary income tax or else to carry the odium of breaking this Government's promises once again. It is fine to express concern, as is done on page 7, that all groups have the opportunity to enrich their identity and develop their talents to the full. The tendency among the affluent who blandly vote Liberal is to contend that we have equal opportunity already. That is about as true as saying that the Ritz Hotel is open to everybody, the appeal courts are open to everybody or that if one is short of bread there is no law against eating cake. The Government claims to place a high priority on employment and training schemes but it has virtually eliminated the most successful employment schemes introduced by the Labor Government which employed approximately 20,000 people. That was a very good start which has been abandoned. The Labor Government took much of the burden of improving the environment from ratepayers and it gave dignity and pride in their work to people who, in  some  cases, are now becoming cynical of ever being acceptable in the work force because there are dozens of registered unemployed chasing each job vacancy. 
Let us turn for a moment from welfare policies to industrial planning policy. Lip service is paid to developing exports and large scale developments overseas backed by Australian exports. In the energy field this is not contemplated except for uranium exports and presumably the continuing cheap sell out of our fossil fuels. Whilst it is claimed that an energy conservation program will be carried out, nothing is said of encouragement of development of alternatives to fossil fuels or uranium for power generation. The Australian National University Research School of Physical Sciences leads the world with a proposal to develop electricity generation from solar energy along with methods of storing that energy in chemical form to overcome the problems of daily and seasonal variations in sunshine. This proposal envisages a pilot scheme for an isolated township where already power costs exceed the modest projected costs of this new solar alternative. No other research project in the world competes with this one in its capacity to provide for small isolated communities, along with greatly increasing economic advantages for increasingly large centres later on, especially as the costs of power generation from coal and petroleum rise and as expertise in the new method accumulates. No other scheme offers such promise of boosting the Australian steel and automobile industries which would be called upon to provide much of the hardware and which in 1 0 or 15 years might actually be producing units for export with this new method of power production, particularly to under-developed nations, in a volume that would exceed in value our present automobile industry. 
If the Government would back this project which has been temperately and conservatively costed and investigated in a practical way by practical people with advice from industry and from experts with experience in the field, I believe it would pay a little more than lip service to promoting exports, which is all we have seen so far from the Government. Instead, the Government seems dazzled by the grand salesmanship of the multi-national giants who stand to lose thousands of millions of dollars if nuclear power development continues to be delayed, as it has been recently by  President  Carter who is awaiting further assurances of safety and economy. These super salesmen have sold the Government the idea that it is its duty to developing nations to promote this highly monopolised, this administratively tyrannical alternative to nuclear power, but in fact it is the most developed, the most centralised and industrialised nations which are planning this technology and have started to use it for their own advanced economies. Their requirements are not in the same league as the requirements of the developing nations. 
The Government has congratulated itself for its assistance to beef producers. Certainly the $10 per head disease control grant with a $2,000 limit has one virtue. It does not give more relief to the big, affluent operator than it does to the small man as long as the small man has 200 head of cattle to treat. However, this does not entirely stop the more affluent from getting the lion's share. One third of the cattle producers earn $15,000 or more a year despite the fact that another third have a net loss of income. It is the affluent ones who have been accustomed to spreading their assets prudently, as did the Treasurer in the last Parliament. It is the affluent ones who in many cases have been putting 200 or more cattle in the name of each member of thenfamily so they can multiply this benefit accordingly. If there are six members in the family each with 200 or more head, the family receives $12,000 instead of the $2,000 that a small operator might receive from this benefit. 
It is some months since I made a suggestion which I think is more equitable, fairer and more considerate of the man who is struggling to survive in an industry where he has been a viable and efficient producer. I suggested to the Government a scheme to give help where it is most needed by providing unemployment benefits to beef producers who stay on their properties, provided there are more than enough other people offering for and closer to existing job vacancies in the area, instead of forcing them to queue up for scarce jobs, leaving the property to be worked by their families. I suggested that this money could be a loan to the farmer if the Government does not want to pay it outright but that the Government should charge no interest on it as long as it was repaid in amounts equal each year to 10 per cent of his income tax. In other words, no payment would be required until the property became viable. When it became viable the payment would be no more than a 10 per cent surcharge on income tax. I have had no Government reaction to this suggestion. I note the proposal to subsidise the freight differential for petroleum products in country areas. This policy was first proposed by the late Arthur Caldwell as Labor Party leader, whereupon the Menzies Government of the time promised and later introduced a partial subsidy. Both major parties adopted a similar policy at the last election. 
However, there is a need to look at other disadvantages of isolated communities which affect not only petroleum- certainly a very important factor in their living costs- but more broadly other products brought from a great distance. For example, despite strong representations over several months we see no response to the suggestion by Labor Party spokesmen and others that sales tax should not be applied to the freight component of prices in the outback. For a government which protests that it wants equal opportunity and help for the disadvantaged by lowering taxes this was more than an oversight. It shows that these protestations are empty. The Government would not even acknowledge the suggestion. The major tax relief has continued, as under former Liberal governments, to be for those on the highest incomes. This has more than offset the advantages of the petroleum freight subsidy for those on lower incomes. It is even doubtful whether the States and the Northern Territory will be able to meet the conditions proposed for this petroleum subsidy, knowing that the States will have to share the costs or nothing will be done. 
In the time left to me, I return to Aboriginal affairs. New initiatives are projected for Aboriginal health but the Government's record in this regard, to give it its kindest designation, is negative. Although some new programs developed under succeeding governments are starting to have some effect and some impact on the disgraceful disease and mortality rates among Aboriginals, it seems that the moment the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has to make a decision he retreats behind the nineteenth century attitude of the Premier of Queensland, as he did when he disbanded for several months the eye health program for Queensland on the ground that Aboriginals involved in the project were politically active. 
A number of questions on the Notice Paper directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs relate to the action which the Government proposes to implement as to international conventions regarding indigenous people which this country has signed and which Queensland persistently and consistently ignores. I have had dozens of accusations of political pressure similar to that to which the Premier of Queensland objected. Indeed there have been reports of intimidation of Aboriginals by Queensland State employees favouring the Queensland Government. But the Aboriginals were never treated by the Whitlam Government or by me as its Minister for Health in the cavalier fashion adopted by the national Minister for Health at the behest of the Premier to demand the sacking of Aboriginals engaged in an independent organisation just because it receives a Federal subsidy even though it is performing its job well in cleaning up a major health problem which causes blindness amongst Aboriginals. 
I trust that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  means to carry out the promise in the Governor-General's Speech that Aboriginals will be helped to acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. But he must demand more than that. He must demand that when they have those skills they be allowed to exercise them. This the Minister has refused in recently over-riding the wishes of tribal land owners at Maningrida and elsewhere regarding who should have entry to their lands. 
The Government is still dragging its feet on occasions concerning pastoral leases in which Aboriginals and the Ranger uranium partners are interested. So far all its assurances to Aboriginals have been empty and vague. Its encouragement to mining interests has been far more concrete. This may not be the personal responsibility of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Nevertheless, it is contrary to the Government's continually stated policies. If the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs cannot persuade the Prime Minister and other Ministers to mend their ways, he should follow the honourable course which the honourable member for Wannon adopted on one occasion when he could not tolerate the actions of the man who put him into Cabinet. He resigned from the Ministry. If the Prime Minister cannot persuade his colleagues that they are breaking his promises, he should do the same again. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of allegations that a 'meat Mafia' dominates pricing of Australia's meat exports to the United States? Is it a fact that historical performance is the sole criterion for allocating to Australian exporting firms a proportion of the voluntary quota for those exports? Does this allow much more lucrative sales than in other export markets and handsome profits to meat exporters at a time when a third of the primary producers of beef are working at a loss? Will the Minister facilitate discussions among the parties concerned to ensure that the brunt of the losses due to world price fluctuations is fairly shared among different levels of the industry? 
Will the Minister indicate what other actions the Government has taken to this end? As I represent the electorate which exports most of Australia's beef, I do not have to answer that interjection. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Did he announce on the day before the recent Federal election that Australia was backing a United Nations resolution to enable all nations to use nuclear power under stringent safeguards, with particular emphasis on the needs of developing countries. 
If so, did he admit that there was no international agreement on management of the nuclear fuel cycle. 
Did he imply that nuclear power technology should be allowed to countries that unreservedly forswear the nuclear weapons option; if so, does he include India among such countries; if not, why not. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Will the Government take steps to take over Aurukun and Mornington Island Missions before the Queensland Government does so on the pretext of improving services to Aborigines? What further steps have been taken since the change of government in 1975 to implement abolition of the racist, feudal State settlement laws and regulations in Queensland- an action which was promised by the Government? Has his attention been drawn to recent statements of the Queensland Premier that moves for land rights in the States, as implemented in the Northern Territory, could lead to a black takeover backed by communist countries? Will the Government take steps to implement Aboriginal land rights throughout Australia, or will the Government continue to defer to the States which prefer to subject Aboriginal rights to mineral exploitation? 
-In supporting the Opposition's amendment to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech I wish to concentrate on the sixth item listed in that amendment. Point (6) states: 
. that the Government's legislative program as outlined in the speech- 
neglects to provide firm guarantees for the protection of civil liberties by legislative enactment within the powers of the Australian Government. 
I wish to stress this aspect, particularly as it relates to Aboriginal affairs and Aboriginal land rights. This is one of the many areas in which the Government is dragging its feet. Outside the Northern Territory and other Federal Territories, the Government today has washed its hands of any responsibility for land rights. In reply to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  this morning, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said that land rights is a matter exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State Government operating under its own legislation'. He was referring to the proposition that the Western Australian Government is now trying to edge its way into Aboriginal lands in Western Australia against the wishes of the local Aboriginal community. 
Without consulting the land rights body in Western Australia and without consulting the Commissioner for Aboriginal Planning, the Western Australian Government intends to hand over to the Minister for Health and Community Welfare the absolute control of entry by diamond prospectors, including the De Beer group from South Africa. The Minister for Health and Community Welfare would be one of the most racist people in any government in Australia. He was caught by the Court of Disputed Returns fiddling the ballot in the Kimberleys where the Aboriginal land with diamond prospects is situated. He made statements justifying himself in that court hearing, saying how lacking in understanding the Aboriginal people were and what a shame it was that he had to waste his time campaigning for their votes because they were so unintelligent. One can imagine what sort of cognisance he will take of Aboriginal feelings and sentiments when it comes to consulting people on the rights of entry of mining prospectors to their land. 
The same sort of thing applies in Queensland, which is under an even worse administration. In Queensland the most feudal and blatantly racist policy still exists. It applies to Aboriginals and Aboriginal settlements. In the 1975 election campaign we were assured by the parties now in government that they intended to implement Federal policy on Aboriginal affairs, to implement Federal policy on land rights and to implement the recommendations of the Woodward Commission and the Ranger Committee of Inquiry. The Government undertook to restore some degree of justice to the people who inhabited this land before 1 788. It has given us repeated assurances in recent weeks that it intends to do this in the Ranger uranium area in the Northern Territory. Even today one of the Government's supporters asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs about this and the Minister said that the Government intends to see that the mining interests have full consultation with the Northern Land Council before any mining takes place in the Ranger area. But in the same Question Time the Minister told the honourable member for Fremantle that he completely washed his hands of the Western Australian affair, that it was completely within the jurisdiction of Western Australia under its legislation and that he would not step in. 
The case of the Aurukun people in Queensland was decided by the Privy Council in favour of the Queensland Government, against the wishes of the local Aboriginal community and against the wishes of the mission authorities who have the confidence of the Aboriginal community. What has the Federal Government done about that? It has done nothing to amend any weaknesses in Federal law, which could restore land rights to Aboriginals. Unless Aboriginals live in Federal territories, it seems that the Government has no intention of taking any notice of their rights. Yet a record vote- probably the highest percentage vote ever recorded in any kind of election or referendum in Australiagave to the Federal Government the power to control and to legislate on Aboriginal affairs and the power for that legislation to override all State legislation. This Federal Government has the legislative power to take over all Aboriginal settlements, all Aboriginal reserves and administration of Aboriginal affairs in every State. Those States that have co-operated with the Federal 
Government, with the enlightened mission authorities and with the Aboriginal communities have voluntarily handed over these rights. Why does Western Australia not do the same? Why does Queensland not do the same? 
When the Labor Party was in government our legal advisers suggested that if we moved to take control of Aboriginal affairs against the wishes of a State government, such as Queensland, that government could haul us through a few courts, including the Privy Council, to exact from us payment for the market value of the land and improvements on those Aboriginal reserves and settlements. Negotiations were stalled for a long time while we worked out how to get around this without a headlong confrontation with the Queensland Government. In the 1975 election campaign the parties now in government assured us that they would pursue this matter and would take it up with the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  After that election all sorts of mollifying noises were made. It was said: 'We have conceded a few points to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  but he really has good intentions. There are just three points on which he has dug his feet in; on which he does not yet want to acknowledge Federal law, Federal responsibility, Federal policy; which he does not yet want us to enforce.' These include international obligations against discrimination and racism. That position has not improved one whit since. In fact, it has worsened with  Mr BjelkePetersen  appointing Uncle Tom Aboriginal councils to try to get around some of the propositions that are said now to be Federal Government policy but which, in fact, are not being implemented. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs claims that he is ever so much more enlightened than his benighted Queensland Government which keeps Aboriginals in a feudal and dependent state, frightened to make any decisions for themselves; which keeps them bound by regulations which were exposed in the second annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby;  which keeps them bound to ask permission before they can even ring for a doctor and sometimes forbidden to do so even in cases where serious medical and obstetric complications have arisen; which keeps them bound to get permission before they send a telegram, which is censored; which keeps them bound to get permission before they bring a visitor into a Government settlement or to go out of a settlement and come back in again; which threatens that they will not be able to draw out their money even to pay hire purchase payments if they do not toe the line of some of the racist administrators. Not all these things are bad but the facility and the capacity for them to be oppressive, tyrannical and feudal is there under Queensland law and this Government has done nothing to confront the Queensland Government on it or to change that situation. The Commonwealth Government has that capacity. A universal human right is involved. It is time some action was taken to alter this situation. 
In answer to a question I asked him at Question Time today the Minister said that he had very kind words to say about the Uniting Church and how enlightened it was in introducing what he called 'modern policies and self-management for Aboriginals'. He said that he was concerned about the moves by the Queensland Government to take over the Aurukun and Mornington Island settlements from the Uniting Church, and that he wanted to ensure that that was the will of the communities. He will be discussing this matter tomorrow with a delegation from the Uniting Church. I hope that when he has those discussions he will show that the Federal Government intends to enforce the power given to it at the referendum on Aboriginal affairs and not cave in as it has so often caved in to State governments on these matters. It caved in completely to the Queensland Premier who pestered the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  with telegrams and phone calls day after day to sack two of the most able, efficient and hard-working field officers who had ever worked with Professor Fred Hollows in the eye care program for Aboriginals in Queensland. They were sacked, it was said, just until after the elections. So far as I know that eye program has not been resumed in Queensland. It may never be resumed. Professor Hollows has limited time and he moved on to New South Wales where he could obtain some co-operation. The alternative offered to him by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was completely unacceptable.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  wanted a couple of Uncle Toms as field officers to replace those efficient men who were well recognised and well respected. Do honourable members know why those men were replaced? It was not for any of the reasons  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  gave. The Federal Electoral Office in Queensland was unable to confirm the Premier's allegations that great stacks of electoral rolls had been handed in by these capable field officers. They were not political activists in that sense. They did their work properly. 
What is really biting  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is that they are two leading members of a movement for a land council in Queensland. As I indicated earlier, there is a land council in Western Australia which is just about to have its teeth drawn. But Queensland will not even countenance land rights. We know what the Premier of Queensland has stated in recent weeks about that proposition. The Premier of Queensland has mineral leases through which he and his family have become fabulously rich by speculation. They did not get out and use a pick or a shovel themselves but the Premier still claims that he is developing Queensland by speculating in mineral interests. It is quite improper for any person involved in evolving mining policy, such as he is, to engage in this speculation. He says that if the Government gives to Aboriginals the rights that he is already exercising improperly there will be a black take-over of Australia. They will be helped by the communist countries. The communists will come in and use black power to take over Australia. That is the sort of man who is running Queensland, the sort of man to whom the Minister for Health in this place kowtowed over the eye care program, which possibly has resulted in blindness that could have been prevented. It is the sort of kowtowing that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is engaged in with the Western Australian Government and I strongly suspect that it will continue to happen after the Minister's interview tomorrow with the Uniting Church. 
It is not, as the Premier has claimed, that the Aurukun and Mornington Island people have a bad health record and do not have the money to carry on, forcing the State to take over and provide them with more nurses or teachers or whatever. They have a much better record than the State settlements. The Torres Strait islands have one of the highest rates of venereal disease in the world and the doctor in charge of the Thursday Island hospital has been pleading with the Queensland Government for ages for adequate facilities to cope with that and many other problems, such as emergency care, immunisation programs and health surveys. He is getting nowhere with the Bjelke-Petersen Government. Health standards in the islands are far below those in the settlements that the Queensland Government proposes to take over from the Uniting Church. It is not that that is eating  Mr Bjelke-Petersen;  it is mineral rights. He wants to get his filthy mining hands on that land. For example, in the Torres Strait Islands he has already taken over a tuberculosis hospital established by the Commonwealth. When the tuberculosis hospital was closed it was made into an old people's home but that reserve of Aboriginal land has been signed over now to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. Of course, it is not advancement; that is the Premier's term for it. 
I could go on for many days enumerating the racist policies of the Queensland Government. Basically this proposal is the thin end of the wedge to turn all Aboriginal land into State Government land. When the Commonwealth Government gets off its tail and legislates, it will be too late to take over Aboriginal reserves. They will already be in the hands of the State Government and it will have its hands on the mineral rights. Aboriginals will not have a say. I ask the Minister to carry out what he says in his policy, to let Aboriginals determine their own affairs. He said that he was doing this in Maningrida but he sacked the very people the Aboriginal community wanted kept there. He did it as a cover-up for two stirrers and trouble-makers who had to be sacked. Along with them he sacked the people whom the Aboriginals wanted to keep. He did this on the ground that he intends to allow Aboriginals to manage things. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Back in December 1973 the second of a series of articles by Clifton Pugh, who will be well known to honourable members, was published in the Melbourne  Age,  entitled 'It's a long sad wait for the dawn on Mornington Island'. The problems he outlined there were those which I had on another occasion called 'cultural cannibalism'. By that I meant that people had been uprooted from their traditional land, from their traditional culture, from their traditional way of survival and existence and had been thrown into a parasitic existence on the white community. That sort of thing occurs not only in mission settlements like those on Mornington Island and Aurukun but, outstandingly today, in the State settlements administered by the State of Queensland. 
In recent days there have been allegations by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Mr Charles  Porter, and by the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  that the Uniting Church which now administers these two missions in the Gulf of Carpentaria is unable to provide adequately for the health and education of the inhabitants- 750 or more at each settlement; over 1,500 people. This ought to be, and I am sure is, the concern of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table. He has said as much in recent Press statements. It is inconceivable that, if that is the situation, this Minister should not be informed by the State of Queensland. The matter should not be brought to his attention by way of an urgent telegram from the Aurukun people saying: What is happening? Help us'. But that is what happened. The health and education standards there ought to be our common property. I hope that the Minister, in his discussions today with the Uniting Church delegation, will be able to inform us further as to whether this is true. 
We can no longer trust the opinions or the statements made by the Queensland Government on this subject. Some time ago that Government alleged that it was necessary for it to step in because the church authorities could no longer control law and order on the settlement. That was made the excuse for threats to take over the settlement. The allegation was refuted amply and adequately, I believe, by a spokesman of the church administration. He pointed out that it was the Queensland Government's responsibility to provide police, even though they would be seldom needed, and that repeated requests over several years had failed to get any positive response from the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government had failed to provide the police to restore law and order. From what I have seen of Queensland settlements, I am perfectly satisfied that police would have to be provided if the settlements were taken over by the Queensland State administration. Now we are told that it is health and education that the church authorities cannot manage. Once again, it is the responsibility of the Queensland State Government, not the church mission which has a franchise to operate on these settlements, to provide nurses, to provide visiting medical services, to provide flying doctor services- all the services which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  says are now inadequate. In the case of education, it also has the responsibility to provide teachers. It is the Queensland State Government's responsibility to see that all these things are taken care of. The Queensland Premier tells us that his State is in a solvent and healthy position. Let it use that wealth to overcome these urgent problems which are its responsibilities, as I have said, not those of the Church which it intends to oust. 
During the Labor Government's term of office it passed the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975. It was binding on the State of Queensland but it has not been enforced, even though during the election campaign at the end of 1975 the parties now in power assured us that it would be enforced in Queensland. No steps have been taken to bring Queensland into line, although the Act binds Queensland. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs says that he has no legislative power with which to override Queensland in the matter of negotiating mineral rights or the takeover of the administration of the missions on these Aboriginal reserves. That is correct. He has no legislation on the books which will enable him to do so, but he could do as we did: He could pass a law which was binding on the whole of Australia and therefore Queensland. He has a precedent that he can follow and he does not have to go back to a Labor government for it. 
One of the first Acts of Federation in 1 90 1 was an Act along these lines. The then Prime Minister Barton wrote a letter- honourable members can see a copy of the letter at page 856 of the Parliamentary Papers for 1901 in the Parliamentary Library- to the Premier of Queensland by the name of Philp. He was connected with the Burns Philp empire which has made enormous riches out of South Sea Island people. The Premier of Queensland opposed the repatriation of people who had been imported into Queensland to work sugar plantations in which, of course, the Philp family was interested. The Queensland State Government opposed the repatriation of those black people to the Pacific Islands even though Australia wanted it, Queensland wanted it and the senators from Queensland and the House of Representatives people from Queensland, who they had been elected on a universal franchise, wanted it. The Premier of Queensland of that day said: 'But we do not want it. Our Government is against it.' But his Government was elected on a multiple voting system. It was a planters' government, which operated on lines very similar to the gerrymander which operates in Queensland today where acres have more votes than people. In many electorates, two to four times as many votes are needed to return one Labor member to Queensland Parliament as are needed to return a member of the Government parties. It was even worse in 1901. Nevertheless, the comparatively conservative Federal government of the day moved to override Queensland, and this Parliament can do the same thing today. That legislation went through the Parliament, despite the protests of the Queensland Government that what it was doing was its business. Aurukun and Mornington Island are Australia's business, not Queensland's. The referendum in 1967, which gave this Parliament the power to pass laws regarding Aboriginal affairs, was passed by an unprecedented majority, a far bigger majority than that which passed the original Constitution on which  Sir Edmund  Barton relied in 1901 to overrule his conservative colleagues in Queensland. 
The people who are speaking for the Uniting Church in Australia are convinced, the people who represent the Queensland Council- it is not recognised by the State Government- are convinced, the Australian Labor Party supporters are convinced and I believe that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is sitting at the table, is convinced in his heart that this takeover is a move by the Queensland Government to ensure that it has maximum control over the spokesmen for Aborigines so that it can push forward to fulfilment its agreements with the mining interests which want to mine bauxite on part of the Aboriginal reserve at Aurukun. I ask the Minister to ensure that the State Government does not go ahead with this takeover. It is the Minister's responsibility and it is the Government's responsibility to lead the way in this matter. An article in the  Age  of Wednesday 7 April last year, reported that the Queensland Ombudsman,  Mr Longland,  had outlined the genuine concern among the Aurukun people that no consultations had occurred with them beyond the initial consultations about explorations. Mining activity started without any further consultation, which had been promised to them. It is the Minister's responsibility to inform himself, if he does not already know, whether those further consultations have taken place and, if they have, whether the wishes of the people on those settlements have been truly expressed. 
If he has informed himself of the situation in Queensland, as many of us in this House have, he will know that the sorts of opinions that are produced from Aboriginal councils on State government settlements in Queensland are totally unreliable. The councils are comprised of people who are in the position of an Uncle Tom; people who know that they can be thrown off the reserve by the administrators, who kowtow to the State Government authorities or who will not be seen to oppose them because if they are seen to oppose them they will cease to have an appointment in that State Aboriginal settlement. If the Australian Government is going to take the word of an Aboriginal council set up by a State administration against the word of a council which has been set up in an enlightened way, as the Minister himself has told us councils on these settlements have been set up by the Uniting Church, the Aboriginal people will lose all trust in this Government and this Parliament and we will have black power in its worst form emerging from some of the young people who talk of irrational behaviour that will help neither them nor Australia, behaviour such as the derailing of trains or goodness knows what. 
It is the responsibility of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to check the insane attitudes of the Premier of Queensland who is talking of abolishing land rights, restraining all possible land rights for Aboriginals on the ground that this could lead to a black takeover in Queensland with the assistance of communist governments overseas. He has been saying this in recent weeks. 
He is not joking. He really believes his nonsense. He is a sick man and when we have a sick man like that in charge of the State of Queensland it is imperative that this Parliament and this Government should move to override him in this matter of takeover. These Aboriginal people are asking only for a little bit of - 
I am willing to issue a certificate to that effect. I am registered to practise in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Will he restore the rate of subsidy that prevailed under the Whitlam Government for school dental services in areas where Aboriginals are the majority of the school children. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February: 
Has he been asked by representatives of traditional land holders to allow the Northern Land Council to authorise access to Aboriginal land at Maningrida. 
If so, has he replied to the effect that he must first raise the matter with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
When will this decision be reviewed in accordance with Government policy as expressed in the GovernorGeneral's speech of 2 1 February 1978 which stated that emphasis will be given to assisting Aborigines to become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. 
Will he make clear that the Government has no intention of handing back to the States or devolving to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the administration of Aboriginal affairs which Labor State Governments have handed over without charge to the Australian Government. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did the Premier of Queensland in a letter to the Prime Minister dated 19 January 1977 complain about the activities of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission? Did the Premier argue in his letter that funds spent by the Commission represented an improper use of money in the current economic climate? Did the Premier ask the Prime Minister to intervene in three transactions by the Land Fund Commission before 'any further and final steps are taken'? Did the Prime Minister later ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for a full report on the land purchases as a matter of urgency? 
It is rather disappointing that the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Carlton),  in the last one and a half minutes of his speech, offered solutions which appear to be limited to clamping down on the budgets for hospitals, the availability of beds and the patient's pocket and increasing the gap which the patient has to pay. I do not have any ready-cut solutions. I think that a reading of the conclusions of the paper would indicate that it is a rash person who offers readycut solutions and that there will be a long haul in working out solutions to these problems which I think the indications show will get worse before they get better, even though we undertake a strenuous program of investigation, education and consultation with all the groups involved. 
Like the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  I am not sure that it is inappropriate to have 7.5 per cent of gross domestic product devoted to health care. After all, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  said in his maiden speech, we live in not only a postindustrial society but one in which the mix of primary, secondary, tertiary, quaternary and quinary industries is changing rapidly. We have to expect that labour intensive services such as health care will eat up a continually increasing proportion of gross domestic product in the foreseeable future. The more we computerise and the more we mechanise, the more we will have to pay for individual services. I suppose it is true that as inflation increases the increasing costs ought to be shared among those people who are now called upon to pay the costs of health services, including to some extent in many respects the patients themselves. It is appropriate to look at spreading that load equitably among the various categories of patients other than the rather simple division we now have of those patients who are on pensions and those who are not and one or two other minor categories along those lines. 
I am not averse and I feel that the Opposition would not be averse to some consideration of capacity to pay in looking at the contributions derived from people. In fact the original Medibank concept recognised this in the matter of the levy contribution. When that was denied by the Senate the alternative was adopted of funding the contributions from general revenue, which is derived to a large extent from income tax levied according to capacity to pay. So it is not inappropriate to say mat the gap or other out-of-pocket expenses of the patient also ought to be related to the capacity to pay. Such schemes as the subsidised health benefit scheme and the pensioner medical service are partial recognition of this. But they are fairly superficial cosmetic steps. There are limits to how much such schemes can take care of the problem because if any great relief of public funds is to be derived the bulk of the cost must be taken from the higher income segment of the community. It is a very small minority and prohibitively high rates of contribution would have to be imposed on it to make a very significant impact. I do not think that offers very much of a solution. 
Certainly, as the honourable member for Mackellar and other people over the years have pointed out, increasing the contribution of the patient has the advantage of placing some deterrent to overuse of health care services by the patient. If the doctor is considering that burden on the patient it also offers some deterrent to the overuse of services when the doctor knows that he will be unpopular if he increases the outofpocket cost to his patient. The doctor may be deterred from giving too many referrals for complicated tests, expensive procedures and operations of doubtful benefit. However, again there are limits to how much difference that sort of fiddling with the contribution of the patient will make to overall costs. Some doctors are blithely unaware and in fact are rather proud of the fact that they ignore the aspect of the cost to the patient. Their attitude seems to be, particularly in the more affluent areas which have always had a higher concentration of doctors, that 'if the patient cannot afford to pay the fee he should go public; don't come to me; I give you only the best care.' Very often the unspoken corollary is: 'It is going to cost you'. 
One serious deficiency in the information that is fed to the Government and to those people who have to try to design better schemes and to contain costs is that the private health insurance industry has not taken any initiative to develop claims review procedures which would help to assess just where economies can be made and where claims perhaps ought to be funded at a lower level of benefit. Such things have been mentioned as routine circumcisions; and perhaps we could include such treatments as cosmetic operations and ones that are least medically necessary for one reason or another. Perhaps lower rates of benefit could be.specified for those operations to which the conclusions of the paper referred. Again there is only a small proportion of operations with which this can be done and I think there is a far more significant chance of economies if the people who are responsible for incurring the costs are involved, instead of trying, as it were, bureaucratically or by executive clerical action to point out categories that should be funded at a lower rate. The doctor who makes the referral, who orders the procedure, who orders the admission to hospital or who prolongs it should be involved in the review procedure. Not only should there be a peer review of the practice of doctors in this regard but also a hospital review. 
In the days when hospitals were far more embattled and limited in their funding and their resources it was generally accepted by doctors that the medical superintendent or an official with some responsibility for the budgeting of the hospital could lean on doctors even in the use of hospital facilities for private patients. Doctors accepted this as a reasonable thing because they realised that the funds and the facilities were limited and that they were dependent on the good will and the provision of these services from the hospital sector of health care. Now that it seems that doctors are more inclined to assert that all facilities of unlimited standards must be made available at their behest and theirs only this is becoming a little more difficult. A long and patient re-education process will be required in consultation with Australian Medical Association spokesmen and other spokesmen of the prescribing professions to work out a mutually responsible formula whereby there will be peer review and also a review by those who are responsible for providing the facilities that doctors use and to which doctors seek access. I refer mainly to hospital services. 
Doctors themselves cannot be the only people involved in the review process. It is not only peer review; it is also total health authority review in consultation with others. It should certainly involve all those in the health care team including lay people who take an interest in health care. In the old days we had hospital boards. We are moving now to things such as community health centre committees and the various community welfare organisations which have an interest in a particular kind of disability and an interest in setting up a service for persons with particular diseases and handicaps. All of these consumer organisations- let us call them that; I refer also to associations of hospital patients in particular hospitals and parent and child care organisationsshould be brought into that review procedure. Not only should we include State and Federal authorities, local governments, hospital boards and the various professionals but also the consumers. It is not just peer review or just a system review; it is a community review. The review is a tall order. It is complicated and difficult. It will not be done for peanuts. A lot of the increased health costs should be going into expanding evaluation more rapidly than, I believe, the rate of growth of the gross domestic product devoted to health care. We should be looking at the evaluation, the communication and the deliberation as the major growth area that is called for in solving these problems and at rationalising facilities, techniques, attitudes and standards of behaviour by individuals in health care services. 
One of the most urgent areas outside the hospital institutionalised sphere- I am moving into the more professional relationships sphere- is the need to prevent an unnecessary oversupply of doctors as it is expressed in the discussion paper. I suggest that this matter does not relate just to the supply of the doctors; it relates to demand. If we can demonstrate to the consumers that paramedical people such as nurse practitioners can in many cases give them more satisfactory and more prompt services and can more easily communicate on human level than can the top professional who is very often rushed, busy and highly technical in his language and even brusque they may not want a fully qualified doctor for a lot of their health care problems as the point of first contact. If this idea can be implemented, particularly in the public hospital sector, it will lead to greater job satisfaction for doctors let alone a greater economy for patients and health departments. It will often provide far better preventive and educational services which have been stressed in the paper as a high priority. It will tie in better with the community involvement I spoke of such as in the health centre committees. If we can lessen the ivory tower specialisation we will get some economies, a better service and a better individual responsibility. There is not only a responsibility for saving money but also a responsibility for one's own health. 
I believe that one thing that has to be looked at if we are to get the co-operation of doctors is a system of incentives to economise. One incentive has been referred to briefly in the discussion paper as the health maintenance organisation formula. Also I think we can offer specific incentives to doctors in the existing system of practice if we facilitate the use of computer integration of doctors ' records to get the information we want. I think this would be a big help in getting the information we badly need. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, there is no urgency that would justify a major piece of legislation such as this being rushed through the Parliament in one day, with less than a day's notice of the terms of the Bill being given to the Opposition, the public and the people it affects. Three weeks ago in this House I raised a matter of public importance, urging the Government to legislate along these lines. I was told then by speakers on the Government side that there was no urgency and that the Government wanted to consider the matter. Yet at that stage the Queensland State Government had indicated its intention to move in and take over the settlements at Aurukun and Mornington Island before we resumed our sittings in this place. The Opposition urged that the Parliament be recalled before 3 1 March so that, having had time to prepare legislation, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  could present it to the House and we could give it a speedy passage. But the Minister said that it was not necessary to recall the House. 
Now there is no urgency, no threat of the State Government moving into Aurukun or Mornington Island or anywhere else. The Premier has said that he wants a cooling-off period, and in fact the deadline of 3 1 March has gone by and he has not sent in any officials to follow up his ultimatum. Yet suddenly this Government has become galvanised with urgency. I am informed by my colleagues that 12 months ago the same sort of procedure was adopted, with major Bills being rushed through the Parliament in 24 hours, not to aid the parliamentary process, not to aid mature deliberation and discussion by the community or the Parliament, but for the Government's own purposes. The Minister in his second reading speech, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when addressing the inaugural National Aboriginal Conference, have said that the Liberal Party and the Government want Aborigines and Islanders to be as free as other Australians to determine their own future. In his address the Prime Minister said: 
I look to this Conference ... to articulate the needs of those whose voices may not otherwise be heard  We wish to see Aboriginals exercising an increasing influence at national, regional and community levels in the determination of these priorities. 
This present situation is a rather sorry start to that. This afternoon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  received a telegram, a copy of which has been handed to me, and I have no doubt that the contents of that telegram have also been conveyed to members on the Government side, including the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is at the table. The telegram states: 
NAC unanimously moved this morning to request the Federal Government and the Parliament to delay passage of the Bill for the normal period of approximately one week - 
We have already had three weeks delay, which did not disturb the Government. This telegram asks for approximately one week. It continues-  so that the people of Mornington Island, Aurukun, the Uniting Church, Queensland, the NAC can seek independent legal advice and make recommendations to overcome obvious inadequacies in the proposed legislation. Moved by John Newfong Queensland Chairman seconded by Isaac Zingle representing Aurukun and Tony Assan representing Mornington Island . . . Lois Odonoghue Chairman National Aboriginal Conference. 
Yet I heard murmurs from the Government side when the Opposition moved to disallow this rushed approach. I heard calls of 'hypocrisy'. I ask: Who is the hypocrite? It is the Government which is hypocritical. It said that there was no urgency- but there was- when the State Government was on the point of moving into the settlements to take over. Now suddenly it finds urgency when the State Government has backed off. 
The Opposition wants a reasonable, normal, legitimate, democratic delay to allow the National Aboriginal Conference, which is meeting in Canberra for the very purpose, to give this kind of advice to the Government. The Prime Minister spelt this out in his address to the Conference. He asked it to look at the matter and to tell the Government its views. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in his second reading speech stressed repeatedly the need for governments not to be paternal and not to impose decisions on Aboriginal communities. Yet here we have been forced after two divisions of the House to do exactly that. We want time to see whether we cannot persuade the Government at least to listen to the many voices of Aborigines over the years which have asked for acquisition of reserves. 
I have received dozens of telegrams in the last two or three weeks asking for a total takeover of all Aboriginal and Islander affairs in Queensland. I am sure that the Government has received an equal number of representations. It is nothing new. This has been going on for years. We also want time to incorporate in the legislation not just land rights, the taking over of reserves, but also a stronger control of reserves by the Aboriginal and Islander people of Queensland. We believe that it is a legitimate reason for delay to give effective control of the reserves to the Aboriginal and Islander communities living on those reserves. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Bill goes some way towards allowing certain actions to be taken and certain deterrents to be applied against some of the more pernicious features of Queensland legislation. But it could go a long way further. 
For instance, the Bill does not provide, as some of the land rights legislation for the Northern Territory provides, that no person, not being an Aboriginal or Islander, shall enter a reserve without permission of the Aboriginal council or without the consent of the Minister. Nowhere in this Bill is there a provision for the Aboriginal or Islander council, with or without the support of the Minister, to prevent the entry of persons onto Aboriginal land. Nowhere are the Aboriginals permitted to restrict entry. All they are permitted to do is to allow entry. They can issue permits to people who have not already got permits from the Queensland authorities. There is no revoking of the Queensland Aboriginal or Islanders Acts which require permits to be issued. So restrictions on entry are still possible for the Queensland Government but not possible for the Aboriginal councils. To this extent, selfmanagement is not provided for adequately by the Bill. It is a legitimate request that it be withdrawn for the normal period of debate by the Opposition, the National Aboriginal Conference and the persons nominated in its telegram whom it asks to have this opportunity to discuss the issues and to propose informed suggestions for amendments with independent legal advice. That seems a reasonable request which should be granted. 
The second reading speech of the Minister refers to land rights. He said that in Western Australia the State legislation provides for an Aboriginal lands trust. Certainly, there is nothing in this Bill which would induce Queensland to legislate along the lines of Western Australian legislation. There is nothing in this Bill which would do something equivalent to the setting up of an Aboriginal lands trust in Queensland. Yet land rights have been the cry right from the days of the first dawning of a national voice for Aboriginals in this country. Land rights virtually are ignored in the Bill. The Minister praises the Western Australian legislation. But I am afraid that the Aboriginal lands trust legislation enacted in Western Australia represented a pretty hollow victory for the Aborigines. We now hear that the Western Australian Government is moving to limit the powers of the Aboriginal communities in that State. Instead of the Aborigines having the power that I referred to earlier to restrict entry to their land, the Western Australian Government is having second thoughts and is looking at the possibility of taking that right away from the Aboriginal communities so that various mining interests will be allowed onto Aboriginal land at the behest of the State Government. It looks as though the Aboriginals will lose that power also. It is a hollow power. 
The Minister says in his second reading speech that the Bill is designed to deal with a fundamental aspect of the Queensland legislation; that is, the management of reserve communities. That is about all it does. I suppose it is true that that is a fundamental aspect of the Queensland legislation. But it is not the only one that is of concern to Aborigines. I went to the Aurukun community on Monday of this week, rather later than the Minister and the other Government supporters to whom he referred. There were several reasons for the delay. One of them was a unanimous view of Government supporters expressed at a meeting of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs that it would be stirring and may weaken the bargaining position of the Uniting Church in Australia and the Australian Government if we went there before 3 1 March. Yet the Opposition members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs were in favour of going to Aurukun in the course of the Committee's normal investigations of the health of Aborigines and at the same time to get our views on the facts as they occurred. Having acceded to the wish of the Government majority on the House of Representatives Standing Committee not to go there, we then read in the Press that half a dozen Government back-benchers went to Aurukun with the blessing of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Apparently, that was not stirring. It would be stirring only if the visit included a few members of the Opposition. Yet virtually the Opposition 's policy in this matter is the policy of the Government. Surely we would not do any more stirring than half a dozen Government backbenchers who went there. But we delayed our trip until after 3 1 March. 
I believed that it would be very profitable and constructive to go after 31 March to see what effect the State takeover had on that community. At that stage we had no indication that this Government intended to step in to deter that takeover on 31 March. Nevertheless, our findings at Aurukun were substantially those outlined in the Press, in the second reading speech and in all the reports we heard for year upon year of what goes on in Queensland. Of course, the people want self-management and self-determination. They do not care terribly whether the management is appointed by a Federal government, a State government, a council or anybody else. What concerns them is their freedom and equality as human beings. We all agree that that is the issue. However, they stressed that those freedoms and equalities were not apparent to them under State administration in Queensland. They could not see any possibility of a State takeover helping them to achieve these freedoms and equalities. In fact, the position was quite the reverse. 
A public meeting was convened: I must say with great patience. The Aborigines have been swamped with visitors from the media and the Parliament over the last few weeks. But very patiently over 200 of the people from Aurukun assembled to give us their views and to receive our assurances. They made it clear to us that that is how they feel. Many actions are taken in the name of the Queensland Government on State reserves ostensibly for the benefit of Aborigines and Islanders which, nevertheless, they do not see as being for their benefit at all. They are not going to these outstations; they are not decentralising their settlements, such as the Aurukun reserve, in order to go back to tribal living although no doubt there are certain attractions in some of the traditional lifestyles that they may pursue there. They are realistic people and they see advantages in some of the benefits that white civilisation can give them such as health care, education, career structures and economic opportunities. But they can see also great harm and damage from absorbing too rapidly and too fully and embracing too readily the values that white Australians offer them, whether they be in the form of ready access to alcohol or competiveness in economic activity, as distinct from their subsistence hunting and food gathering activities. Many of the influences for social disintegration occur in the urban conglomerations and in fringe communities of Aboriginals on the outskirts of white settlements. Whatever their reasons they are entitled to integrate with white society at their own rate and in their own way, not in ways that would be imposed on them from outside. The Government and the Opposition are as one in that view. 
The Opposition has spelt out on many occasions the error in the views of the Queensland Premier who states that to allow self-determination of these communities is a form of apartheid and encourages a black nation alongside a white nation. There is a vast difference between being told that they must assimilate or that their culture will be eaten up by ours- a cultural cannibalism, a cultural genocide which has been applied in the past under paternalistic policies- and being told, as people are told under the apartheid policies of South Africa, that they must stay apart. There is a vast difference between the permission that the Government offers and that the Opposition offers to Aboriginal and Island people to go their separate ways, to develop at their own rate and in their own way, from the apartheid policy of South Africa where they are taught not to assimilate, not to integrate, not to participate in common or on an equal basis with persons of another culture. 
Most of the characteristics of apartheid which are enforced on those persons in an inferior position in South Africa also are enforced on Aboriginal people in the Queensland reserves under State administration where, for example, they are offered training which will never qualify them for teaching, trades, nursing or nursing aide positions in the general Australian community but will qualify them only for an inferior standard of work in those fields on Aboriginal settlements only. They have lower rates of pay, lower standards of training, lower job opportunities and no openings for apprentices that I have heard of- certainly not in most of the settlements. They are condemned forever to the serfdom that applies in South Africa where they are in an inferior position, where they are working as aides or assistants, semi-skilled or unskilled, to white superiors- be they tradesmen, nurses, doctors or administrators. Their positions are inferior to those people. 
There is a proper way to go about integrating two cultures as diverse as ours in the white community and that of the ancient culture of the Aboriginal and Island people. The Aboriginal and 
Island people are not going to be integrated forcefully by the old paternalistic assimilation policies without great demoralisation, loss of self esteem and dignity and loss of their sense of identity, which is very strongly bound up with their links with the land of their birth, their traditions, their dreaming and their spiritual sentiments. It is not to be achieved that way. It can be achieved only at their own pace. Just as we cannot change a man's religion by burning him at the stake or by using thumbscrews, we cannot turn a stone-age indigenous person in any country into a typical citizen of the twentieth century if he has not had the opportunity to absorb, to select and to judge for himself what aspects of that culture he wants. 
As I indicated, there are many factors missing from the Bill. One is that the Minister has the right to veto any by-law given to the Aboriginal or Island people on the council which, I would hope, represents them. Although the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  says that he is giving them self-management powers- certainly the Bill provides the power for them to make bylawsthose by-laws will have no effect unless the Minister tables them in the Parliament. Surely it should be equally acceptable to say that, if he does not approve of them, he can still table them in each House of Parliament and allow the Parliament to make that decision. He himself can move in the Parliament to disallow them if he disagrees with them. But those people ought to have at least the opportunity that any other local authority, commission or statutory authority has to pass by-laws, regulations or ordinances subject to the scrutiny of this House and not to be subject to an arbitrary executive decision. 
The Opposition is a little concerned that, in the definition of a 'reserve', the gate has been left open to the State Government, if it so desires, to reclassify or re-gazette the land that at present is reserved. The Opposition believes that some date ought to be specified at which those reserves are defined. It is concerned at the very tame approach to land rights. The Minister may make Commonwealth land available to the council for the council's purposes but that does not mean that he gives it to the council. It does not mean that it has the freehold title. The land remains vested in the Commonwealth, not in the council. Surely, with all the glowing praise for land rights legislation in the Northern Territory in the recent address by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the National Aboriginal Conference and with the Minister's own praise for land rights in Western Australia, we could at least have hoped for some foreshadowing of land rights legislation here. We could have hoped that the Bill not only would make land available to the council for its purposes but also would vest the land in the council. 
The Opposition is disappointed with the pace and the extent of this legislation. It smacks all too much of an appeasement of public opinion, of the very severe reaction against the proposed actions of the Queensland Government. I would expect that the threat of  Senator Bonner,  and goodness knows how many other Government supporters, to resign if some such action was not taken would have been a major factor in deciding the Prime Minister that perhaps he had better start doing something. He has waited for over two years, since he has been in government, to take definitive action against the regressive laws of Queensland. Certainly we received cooperation in 1975, when we were in government, for the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act, but no action has been taken to enforce it. It may be said that that Act provides some power for the council on the Aboriginal lands to deny entry to people who are not Aboriginals or Islanders; or some other powers that have not been spelt out in the BUI. Those powers have not been enforced. 
There has been no action that this House knows of to enforce the laws passed in 1975 against discrimination generally and, in particular, against discrimination in the Queensland law concerning Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. For that reason, on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn until it has been referred to the current meeting of the National Aboriginal Conference in Canberra and then re-drafted to (a) take into account their suggestions; (b) make provision for acquisition of reserves existing at 3 1 March 1978 and vesting them in the relevant Aboriginal and Islander communities; and (c) give effective control of reserves to the Aboriginal and Islander communities living on those reserves '. 
I commend the amendment to the House. I believe that, if the House will accept it, it will meet the sentiments of the telegram from the National Aboriginal Conference. If the telegram is disregarded and cast aside as of no relevance or import, what sort of message will those 30-odd delegates take back to their communities? They will say: 'We came down to Canberra. We heard fine words of great promise and new hope from the Prime Minister. We thought that at last it would be more than words. What happened? We did what we were set up to do: We advised the Government on priorities; we advised it on our sentiments; we spoke for those who could not otherwise be heard, as the Minister invited us to do. What was the Government's reaction? It said: 'Blow you, Joe. We will still be paternalistic and regressive. We will do it our way. We know what is best for you '. 
The Opposition's amendment is not an unreasonable one. It is in line with good, established practice within the Westminster system. It is time for the Government to be humble enough, realistic enough and mature enough to accept that perhaps it has been hasty; perhaps this rush has been entered into with the wrong motives. Perhaps it will have repercussions not only against the Government but also against the people in whose interests the Government is acting. I appeal to the Minister, as a reasonable man, to do what the people want him to do. If the words of his second reading speech were really genuine the first thing he can do to demonstrate that is to accept our amendment, to delay a little, to talk, to consult with the people who will be affected. They ask for independent legal opinion. Surely the record must demonstrate to the Minister that when Aborigines ask for this right and when it is granted to them they exercise it with great responsibility and effect. The legislation that has come out of the deliberations of the land councils has largely derived its force, effectiveness and value from just this procedure, from Aboriginal organisations getting independent legal advice and advising governments. Why does that suddenly become anathema? Why does the Government suddenly shrink from allowing this legislation to be made public for the normal period, to be exposed properly in the Parliament for the normal period, to allow honourable members and everybody else proper time to deliberate? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the long delay in resumption of the Queensland trachoma survey and eye health program been due to the reluctance of Professor Hollows to accept alternatives suggested by Queensland authorities for staff recommended by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Does he propose to continue to defer to Queensland in matters of Aboriginal health where demonstrably higher efficiency is evident to the health operatives concerned by accepting the staff appointed on the advice of Commonwealth authorities, and where no medical, ethical or legal evidence has justified Queensland intervention. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What progress has been made in implementing recommendations contained in reports of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, in particular (a) the encouragement of discussion by their organisations of interrelationships among professionals and their disciplines, their registration standards, and delegation of functions to purpose-trained aides and other support staff, (b) the provision of specific grants for initiating training for ail members of health teams, study leave and community health training, (c) the involvement of States, academic and professional organisations in discussion of interdisciplinary training, (d) the exploration of the concept of multi-purpose ' health aides, (e ) the definition of limits of responsibility of different health workers in varying situations and geographic settings, (f) a greater community involvement in identifying and meeting needs, (g) encouragement to applicants for community health funds, (h) the maintenance of the Federal share of 75 percent capital and 90 percent running costs pending review of Federal/ State relations, up to 100 per cent funding for approved national projects, and providing legislation as a formal basis for the Community Health Program, (i) the development with the States of standard evaluation procedures and administrative details of devolved responsibilities (j) the priority of projects indicating evaluation and feedback procedures when applying for funding, (k) the transfer of paramedical and home nursing funding to the Community Health Program, co-ordination of this program with home care and handicapped persons assistance and family planning funding, and inclusion in the program of services operating before 1 July 1973, (1) family planning training for community health workers, (m) hospital management links with community services, (n) the placement of more emphasis on health hostels, health education, promotion and training under the community health program, (o ) the implementation of the report on Health Transport Policies for Australia, and (p) funding rural health training, location incentives and continuing education for isolated professionals. 
-I second the motion. This - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Capricornia be not further heard. 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Did an experienced member of the Western Australian fishing industry,  Mr Michael  Kailis, along with others of the Western Australian Marine Services Association, of which  Mr Kailis  is  president,  submit to the Government in 1976 a scheme for adequate maritime surveillance of Australia 's northern coasts. 
If so, (a) did the submission recommend the commissioning of a fleet of 10 to 18 vessels about 22 metres long with a draft of 2 metres or less, with a top sustained speed of about 50 kilometres per hour, each costing $600,000 and having a crew of 8, including possibly a naval officer, customs, migration, anti-drug and quarantine officials, to be stationed at Exmouth, Port Hedland, Broome, Darwin, Gove and Thursday Island. 
Would this proposal be cheaper and more effective for quarantine, migration, anti-drug and customs purposes than the proposed Defence Department contracts for 14 patrol boats costing $5m each to be delivered from 1982 and frigates on order at $2 50m each. 
Will he consult with officers of his Department and the Departments of Health, Northern Territory, Transport, Post and Telecommunications and others with a view to prompt revision of the priorities for a coastguard service, including u fleet of Nomad aircraft, more Tracker aircraft and a network of unmanned radar beacons, as a Defence function. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a draft constitution for a World Parliament recommended for general circulation and discussion by the World Constitution and Parliament Association at Innsbruck in 1 977. 
If so, has he advised the Association or its Canberra Branch of the Government's views on this draft. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to predictions of soil scientists that Australia is becoming the world's biggest desert dust-bowl. 
Is it a fact that in one lifetime many rural holdings, where humus conservation and replacement are not practised, have lost most or all of their productive capacity. 
Has the Government supported the Rathburnie Environmental Education Estate at Linville in the Brisbane Valley or any other project which aims to demonstrate the long-term commercial viability of land and environment conservation practices. 
-by leave- I wish to place on record the Opposition's support of the appreciation expressed by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  for the work of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, the people of Darwin and all those concerned with the very creditable record of restoration. I particularly thank the Minister for his praise of  Mr Clem  Jones. He was appointed by the Minister's predecessor,  Dr Rex  Patterson. 
I wish to recall one or two incidents of the memorable occasion of the Darwin cyclone.  Dr Patterson  informed me that he was the first Minister to go into the area. He was on the first aeroplane which landed in the dying phase of the cyclone. It was wet and dark and the landing was extremely hazardous. It was made possible only by the fact that a pilot trained in 'blind' landing was in Australia at the time.  Dr Patterson  recalled how a few seconds before touchdown this pilot, using very specialised equipment that was available in only two aeroplanes, said: 'If you do not see the landing lights within so many seconds we have missed it'. Fortunately they made it. 
I also refer to the situation at the Darwin hospital. I was in the second batch of Ministers to go to Darwin in the midst of the turmoil of the mass evacuation. Perhaps it was the biggest airlift of people in the world's history. I pay tribute to  Dr Gurdh,  who was then in charge of preparations at Darwin hospital. He had had experience of cyclones in Fiji. He had the foresight to make preparations which ensured that there was very little damage to the hospital and that the hospital kept going. In fact, one of the nursing staff delivered a baby at the height of the cyclone. She did so in the nursery because the roof of the labour ward was leaking. 
There are many stories of courage, dedication and long hours of, in many cases, thankless and unrecognised work by police and all manner of people in the Public Service and elsewhere. Of course there were stories of tragedy. One woman lost her husband. He was an architect who had gone to Darwin to demonstrate methods of construction which would resist cyclones. He had constructed such a house and was negotiating with the authorities to have his techniques recognised. The house he had constructed survived the cyclone. The one he had his family lived in did not. He died and his wife was left paralysed from the neck down.  Her  two children were injured. There are many such stories. Some tell of narrow escapes and some are more tragic. 
Once again I thank the Minister for his kind remarks. The Opposition joins with the Government in thanking all those concerned in this achievement of reconstruction. We hope that such an event will never happen again and that the guidelines for anti-cyclone construction will safeguard Darwin at least from another such tragedy. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Has he supported the view of the Woodward report that an imposed solution to the traditional Aboriginal land rights problems is unlikely to be good or lasting, and that, although it will take longer, consultation is more likely to be permanently acceptable. 
If so, will he apply that principle in dealing with the Northern Land Council in the matter of employment of officers at Maningrida and facilitating agreement with the Ranger mining partners. 
I move: 
In proposed section 52 (2c), after 'accordingly' insert  giving his reasons'. 
The reasons for this amendment are the same as those I gave in relation to the previous amendment. We simply ask that when the Minister does not agree to the alteration of the objectives of an Aboriginal association he should not only notify the association in writing but also give his reasons. We believe it is a self-evident fact that the amendment will do nothing but help the association and the Minister to co-operate in a cordial fashion. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
In proposed section 33 (8), after 'accordingly' insert ',  giving his reasons'. 
As I have indicated earlier, the Opposition believes that nothing is to be lost by increasing communication with, explanation to and consideration for Aboriginal communities. I submit that the amendment could very readily be accepted without any further consideration. It should need only stating to be commended to the Government. We are asking only that the words giving his reasons ' be inserted, in which case the relevant sub-section will read: 
Where the Minister is not satisfied that the request should be complied with, he shall refuse the request and shall notify the Aboriginal Council in writing, accordingly, giving his reasons. 
The 'reasons' referred to are the Minister's reasons why he does not accede to a request by an Aboriginal council for alteration of its functions. I think it is in the spirit of the amending Bill and of the original Act. 
I move: 
Omit the clause. 
We in the Opposition indicated at the second reading stage of the debate our misgivings with regard to this matter. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  suggested that we would not be doing this if, for example, there were a Prime Minister here called  Mr BjelkePetersen.  I point out to him that if we had such a Prime Minister he certainly would not allow such an amendment to be passed by this Parliament. He would not want to telegraph his punches in something that was said in regard to a certain event recently. If the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs does not want to indicate to the State of Queensland that he is setting up an Aboriginal council, in view of the fact that the State of Queensland may then proceed to declare a local government area, I think that option should be left open to him. I do not want confrontation, but I think sensible Ministers do not want such a restriction on them. I commend the amendment. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Northern Territory. Has the Northern Territory Executive, through its Primary Producers Board, sought to purchase the Scott Creek- Willeroo property? What trading powers does the Board have to deal in rural properties? Is the Minister aware that the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, Paul Everingham, has delayed finalising the purchase in order to seek alternative cheap European loan money, thus by-passing the Loan Council? Who will pay to the station hands the overdue wages for this month? Did  Mr Everingham  warn the Minister that this could cause a scandal? Did the Minister reply that he would send any complaints to  Mr Everingham? 
I wish to raise with the House the grave concern and misgiving which has been expressed to me by Aboriginal communities and officials throughout Australia in relation to what they see as a possible sell-out in the deal which was announced yesterday between the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Queensland Government. The Minister is on record as saying that we must hear the Aboriginal voice. He said: 
. no . . . Government can afford to ignore the Aboriginal voice or believe there may be some possibility of postponement of what it asks. 
He says that any government that does that, does so at its peril. The Minister went on to say: 
If . . . Australians are true to the belief in liberty and equality and the brotherhood of all people, then we will see Aboriginals move in dramatic fashion out of the crippling mire of poverty, protection and discrimination ... we will see Aboriginals do it for themselves  . . Governments must . . . make certain the barriers are down and that they have a fair go. 
The Minister has been doing all sorts of sidesteps and fancy steps with the Queensland Government in an effort to avoid having to live up to that high ideal of a fair deal, of liberty, of selfdetermination of self-management for Aboriginal people. We have on the Notice Paper listed for debate later in the day an amendment to the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976. In his second reading speech when introducing that Bill the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs spelt out the concept of what the relationship should be between Aboriginal councils and other kinds of local authorities. They are the same sorts of matters that ought to have come into his considerations when discussing these matters with the Queensland Government yesterday. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that there had been exhaustive discussion between the Commonwealth Government and State and Territory governments through the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council. Yet it seems that all of the discussions yesterday took place without any reference to any spokesman for Aboriginal interests. The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act which will be debated later in the day, if the business of the House permits, specifically is to avoid the intrusion of Aboriginal councils into State responsibilities for local government. But nowhere in his public statements does the Minister say what he intends to do, what the Government intends to do, what consultations are taking place with Aboriginal interests, about the intrusions of State interests, of local government administration, into the Australian Government's responsibility in relation to Aboriginal self-management. That is what the whole debate of the last few weeks has been about. 
The Minister says that before the Aboriginal councils are established discussions will take place with the State authorities. Nobody can see any harm in that. It will be just as well if we do have discussions with everybody concerned with these matters. The Minister is also very concerned that people do not see any move by the Federal Government to give self-management to Aboriginal communities as being some kind of separate development, as being the creation of a semi-autonomous Aboriginal entity, or as encroaching on State rights, whatever they may be. I thought we were talking about human rights. It seems that in this case the Minister is giving priority to State rights. He is not concerned with the rights of Aboriginals or of Australians but with State rights. He says that he does not want to have separate laws for Aboriginals which will cut them off from Federal or State institutions. That is fair enough. 
But, in the mere fact that he has proposed an amendment to the Act, he also admits that differences do exist in the administration of Aboriginal communities and that of other communities and that it is the right of Aboriginals to maintain those differences so that they have some protection against intrusions, the incursions and the irresponsibilities and, indeed, the racism, suppression and discrimination of which he complains in his speech on the 'winds of change'. 
The Minister says, for example, that Aboriginal communities, particularly those which are remote and tradition-oriented, might find difficulty with Western European legal concepts as embodied in State and Territory legislation. That is commendable sensitivity to the special needs of a people who live within an Aboriginal culture, who have not yet integrated into the western system of laws, of social activity and of cultural patterns. Yet the Minister is prepared to abandon them and turn his back on them. Of course, he has assured us that those things will depend on the legislation brought down by Queensland being acceptable to him and to the Federal Government. Thereby he puts the whole question on ice until the Queensland Government makes the next move. He hopes thereby to quell any disquiet, any complaint, any demur by the people of the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves in particular so that he and the Premier of Queensland and his Ministers can in some way wriggle out of any intrusion by the Federal Government in its responsibilities for Aboriginal affairs, Aboriginal self-management and Aboriginal self-determination, into the sovereign rights of the State to control all local government matters. 
The powers that were spelt out in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act, which was passed last week ostensibly for the purpose of overcoming the intrusion of the State into the legitimate rights of Aborigines to determine their own rate of acculturation into the western culture, are identical to those spelt out in the 1976 Act which deals with Aboriginal councils. Those powers deal with the same functions which the Minister says will be left to the States in the proposed legislation. With one hand he gives; with the other hand he takes away. 
Under existing law in Queensland the Minister for Local Government can step in at any moment when he thinks that the council is not adequately carrying out its functions and he can appoint an administrator. That is the very thing which precipitated the whole debate in the first place. Instead of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland appointing an administrator the gate has been left open for the Minister for Local Government in Queensland to appoint an administrator to take over the same functions of an Aboriginal council under the 1976 Act or under the selfmanagement Act of this session. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs assures us that he will have to be satisfied that the legislation does not do that. However, we have seen the sort of things that meet his approval. He went with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to Queensland to discuss this takeover with the Queensland Premier and Queensland Ministers. He came back with a formula for compromise. There would be a joint administration by the Church and the State authorities. The Aboriginal communities rose up in protest. The Prime Minister listened to their voice and ordered the Minister to back-track. Now he is doing the same sort of deal, only worse. In this case it does not involve even the Church. This will hand things over entirely to the State. 
I believe that the Aboriginal communities throughout Australia- at least from the initial reactions I am getting- will not accept this as an assurance because it is no better than the assurance the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs gave when he said there would be joint administration by the Uniting Church and the State. It is a sell-out to the racist, repressive and regressive policies of Queensland. The Opposition will not rest and the Aboriginal communities we will be consulting, I am sure, will not rest until we have something a little better than this. The Queensland Premier, with his great concern to preserve land for rnining companies, will probably give only a very small portion of the Aurukun Reserve and even of the Mornington Island Reserve to the council that he will set up. He will do his best to see that it is a puppet council, an Uncle Tom council such as he has repeatedly organised throughout Queensland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

The Opposition appreciates some of the motives and some of the effects of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Amendment Bill which amends the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act. However, we do have certain misgivings. To that end we are circulating four proposed amendments. The first of those amendments seeks to delete clause 4 of the amending Bill. We will discuss at the Committee stages our reasons for seeking to do this. In general we are uneasy about the effect of the amending Bill in limiting the capacity of a group of Aboriginals to apply to the Registrar or, indeed, inhibiting them from applying to the Minister to have declared an Aboriginal council for their area. They are entitled to do that under the provisions of the existing Act, even though there is a local authority in their area, or a local authority is proposed for their area, to which they may make such application. 
As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said in his second reading speech, the amending Bill seeks to resolve issues of concern to State and Territory governments. I strongly suspect that the issues involved are not of concern at all to any Territory government but of concern purely to the governments of the States of Queensland and Western Australia which seem to be suffering from an embattled complex- a complex that they have been beleaguered in some way by the Federal Government, that they have to stand up and struggle for their threatened State rights so called. 
I can understand that there are advantages in decentralisation. As was mentioned in an earlier debate this evening, the Labor Government did much to decentralise matters of urban transport and to institute regional improvement programs. We did much to decentralise health and welfare services. We did not go bull-headed for centralism, as some honourable members opposite seemed to imply during that earlier debate. I can see some disadvantages in having centralised control of certain matters concerning Aborigines, but the fact remains that the prime responsibility for Aboriginal affairs rests squarely with the Federal Government. That opinion was expressed by a referendum of the Australian people in 1967. 
We feel that the aspects of this amending Bill to which we take exception are inclined to undermine that responsibility and to throw responsibility back on the States. I see no reason why an Aboriginal council, if it wishes to have self-management, which has been the topic of debate on Aboriginal affairs over the past few weeks, should be deprived of the right contained in the original 1976 Act. Of course, the Registrar can inform the State of what is going on, just as the Minister can. 
Under clause 5 of the Bill the Minister is required to notify the State or Territory concerned of any intention to set up an Aboriginal council in an area which is a local authority area, or an area which a State or Territory proposes to make a local authority area. In other words, the Minister has to tell the State of his intentions in advance. I think that this is good, courteous mutualism which ought to occur in a federal system. I am not against that. I am not one for playing cards close to the chest. It was my policy as a Minister, and I believe it was the policy of most Ministers in the Labor Federal Government, to consult fully. In fact, we adopted that sort of approach in respect of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act and other Acts. We were required to consult before doing anything that would impinge on State authorities. So we do not greatly object to that aspect. 
What we do object to, however, is that all these amendments are being brought in without consultation with the Aboriginal people who are affected. The amendments are all concerned with States rights. They provide for all sorts of consultations with the States, but nowhere do they provide for consultation with Aboriginal land councils and other people who have an equally legitimate right to consultation. For instance, nowhere is it stated that consultations must be held with the National Aboriginal Conference. 
Then there are amendments which state that the Minister may refuse requests for alterations to the functions of the Aboriginal councils and that he may refuse requests for the alteration of objects of councils. Although the Registrar has to give reasons, the Bill does not provide for the Minister to give reasons. Of course, his reasons might be the same as those which the Registrar has presented to him and he might feel that he ought to have the prerogative not to give his reasons because he can always allege that he has taken the advice of the Registrar. But that does not meet the disquiet of Aboriginals around Australia in their belief that this Government has gone soft on its principles. 
In support of my contention that this is not a move by the Territory authorities but is purely a move by the States of Queensland and Western Australia which are so vocal on this matter of States rights, let us look at some of the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, the complementary and consequential legislation for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I point out that this legislation does not embrace just Labor Party policy. On 25 November 1975 a conference of the Liberal and National Country parties was held and those parties spelt out that they would ensure that traditional Aboriginal owners gained an inalienable title to their lands. Nowhere in the legislation which has come before this House during this session has that been spelt out. It has not been spelt out in the discussions between the Queensland Government and the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The same joint party policy states that Aboriginals should determine how their lands are to be used and preserved. There is no qualification. That is straight forward enough. 
There are qualifications in the Northern Territory legislation. 
It is not qualified in the second reading speech of the Majority Leader who introduced the legislation in the Northern Territory. He said: 
In recognising land rights we will ensure: 
That traditional Aboriginal owners gain an inalienable title to their land, that they also determine how their lands are to be used and preserved, that they have the same rights as any other owner to determine who enters their land whether the person is Aborigine or non-Aborigine . . . 
That is not ensured in any of the legislation brought before us this week or in recent weeks. 
No, it was not. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Dundas and the honourable member for Capricornia will address the Chair. I ask the honourable member for Dundas not to interject. Instead of having a private debate across the chamber, the debate shall be addressed to the Chair. 
Thank you for your assistance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It was not the Aboriginal Affairs policies of the parties for the Northern Territory. The Aboriginal Affairs policies of the Parties were spelt out. In respect of Aboriginal land rights, the document contained the statement that I have just quoted. If the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly representing those parties does not choose to qualify his statements, I can take his words at face value, as I have taken the word of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in this House at face value, believing that he means what he said. The Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly also stated: 
That sites significant, according to Aboriginal tradition be preserved and protected. 
There are, as the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  indicated by way of interjection, certain provisions for other people to give  the  rights of entry to Aboriginal land. The Opposition has no objection to those provisions. There are certain legal requirements where obviously the Aboriginal Council, which has local authority functions basically, is not the appropriate authority to determine access. One example is when a policeman is investigating a murder. In that case and in respect of many other matters the action required does not come within local authority functions. 
Considerable public debate occurred in the Northern Territory, as it is now occurring throughout Australia, when this legislation was introduced. The Federal Parliament set up a joint parliamentary committee under the chairmanship of  Senator Bonner.  Its report was tabled in 1977. It recommended principles to be followed in the complementary legislation in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Unlike the progress of legislation through this House, during the drafting there were wide-ranging discussions held with Aboriginal groups, with representatives of land councils and with other interested persons. There is no move for a land council in Queensland. The Queensland Government opposes it. This Government appeases the Queensland Government. It looks as though it will do the same in regard to the Oombulgurri people in Western Australia. 
The provisions in the Northern Territory legislation take account of the sea within two kilometres of the low water mark of Aboriginal land. Under the provisions coming forward in Queensland entry to its waters would be left presumably to the State Department of Harbours and Marine. In the Northern Territory, provision is made for entry permits to be granted by the local people, the traditional owners of the land, for persons other than Aborigines, as well as for Aborigines. Such a provision is not made in Queensland nor in any of the legislation we have considered during this session. There is provision for prosecutions by a land council upon the request of the people in the community affected for breaches of the Act. Nowhere do we find that sort of capacity in the local communities at, for example, Aurukun or Mornington Island or any of the communities in the States covered by the amending Act. Whilst we see some good features in the amending Bill, we see it as a further step in the appeasement program. It is a sort of dialectic tango engaged in by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in which he takes two timid steps forward when he is pushed by public outcry. Then he tries to take three sly ones backwards when nobody is looking and when he can cover up the fact that he is appeasing the States lighters. 
It is said to be unfair by honourable members opposite but it seems to be the way in which Aboriginal communities are thinking. I think that the Minister ought to accept the view of those persons, and not just my view, because that is how it has appeared to them. This is the sort of reaction I have gained from them in recent days to the actions of the Minister and to the public statements made by him in conjunction with Queensland Ministers. The Minister should take account of this reaction if he really means what he says, that is, that he is acting for the Aboriginal people and not for States rights. He has to start getting his priorities right. He may have acted with the best of intentions, and I give him credit for that, but I do not think that I am being unkind in making that judgment. I am just showing him how it appears to other people. 
The record of the States in these matters is not a very pretty one. This matter was raised in the debate on an earlier Bill this session when the Opposition moved certain amendments. Before the debate came on I offered to the Minister the opportunity to discuss some of our amendments with me and to explain them fully. Our debating time was very limited and perhaps he did not understand the full import of the proposed amendments. He informed me that he saw no possible fruitful outcome from having such discussions. I suggest that that was an unkind reaction. It would be to the advantage of Aboriginal people if there were more informal consultation outside the House to arrive at a bipartisan attitude to these matters that is in conformity with the feelings of the Aboriginal people. 
One of the incidents that makes us particularly uneasy about this defence of States rights and the falling in with the wishes of the states occurred in Mareeba in Queensland. The Mareeba Aboriginal housing project was initially funded in 1973- 74 with a grant of over $67,000 to the Mareeba Shire Council. The reason it went to the Council was that there was no Aboriginal cooperative body to which the funds could be made available. One of the conditions was that the administration would be handed over to such a body when it was developed. Between 1 973-74 and 1976-77 15 houses were built by the Mareeba Shire Council with Commonwealth Government funds totalling over $474,000. The conditions were that the Council would negotiate with the Queensland Government for the release of Crown land. It would construct, own, maintain and collect rents for the houses. It would act as trustee until the future establishment of an Aboriginal housing society in which the rights and responsibilities would be then vested. The Mooraridgi Community Advancement Cooperative Society Ltd was established in 1974- 75. Funds provided to that organisation from that year to 1976-77 totalled over $314,000, with $41,000 being allocated in 1977-78 and a program estimated to cost $50,000 for 1978-79. To date 12 houses and flats have been purchased. On 28 October 1977 the Mareeba Shire Council announced that it had asked the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement to assume responsibility for the reserve. This was a clear undermining of the intention of Federal governments of both political colours to hand over responsibility to the Aboriginal community. The local government usurped that function in appealing to the State Government to take over. 
Let me deal with the background to this matter. There were reasons why the local government appealed to the State Government and not to the Federal Government. It was annoyed. For instance, it was the same Mareeba Shire Council that had bulldozed down sub-standard houses which it said were a health menace, and so deprived Aboriginal people of homes. That led to this whole story, this whole move to provide housing. After the houses were built, the Mareeba Shire Council complained about the tenants. According to the Council, something like two-thirds of the homes were occupied by unsatisfactory tenants. They were unsatisfactory for one reason or another- they were not paying rent, the windows were broken, there were noisy drinking parties or there were too many people living in one house; all the sorts of tilings that happen with people living in a poverty situation. There were the usual complaints from people who do not see some of the difficulties of Aboriginals coming into an unfamiliar culture, an unfamiliar kind of housing and handling it without assistance and training, which are not always available. Yet the Council said that the rents should be raised. 
The Council had many complaints but in the event it handed over control to the State. On 29 November 1977,  Mr Wharton,  who was then Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, indicated that his Government stood ready to accede to the Council 's wishes. I am not accusing  Mr Wharton  of any malice, any deceit or any underhand dealing in this matter. He probably saw the Council's complaint as a legitimate one. But the fact is that the Minister had no brief to act in the way in which he did. It was a provocative act of the State. Surely his advisers knew the status of those houses and where the money had come from to build them. Surely it would have been no great trouble for the Minister to find out from the Mareeba Shire Council the conditions under which it held ownership of those lands before he indicated that he was ready to accede to those wishes. 
Lo and behold, on 21 January 1978, the Queensland State Government, in its Gazette notified that control and management of the reserve at Mareeba had been transferred to the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. That is the record of local government in Queensland, even after this Government had made moves to give self-management to Aboriginal communities. So does anyone wonder that Aborigines and the Federal Opposition are uneasy about these amendments to the legislation. 
I believe in selfmanagement by the Aborigines, not by the Mareeba Shire Council asking the State Government to take over, to set the rents and to evict people at its behest. I believe that the Mooraridgi Community Advancement Co-operative Society Ltd established for this purpose is the appropriate body to set up self-management. The Minister is aware of this. I am not accusing him of deliberate delay, but after all, this has been going on for a long time. He did not have to wait until this issue came up. Indeed the Mareeba Shire Council was already showing its noncooperative attitude, its breach of the agreement with the Federal Department, back in October 1977. 1 know that it takes a long time to get legal action in these cases. Nevertheless, there are people concerned and there are people being evicted from houses. I believe that while this sort of thing is going on in Queensland the Minister should not be moving to make it easier for States to do this sort of thing. 
The Minister is ostensibly going to come to a mutual agreement with Queensland about the terms of the setting up of the local government authority at Aurukun and Mornington Island. The terms of the joint statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Queensland Premier in the last day or two are that there will be self-management through the operations of local government, in order to achieve mutual agreement between the relevant Ministers. The joint statement says that the Queensland Government has offered to consult with the Commonwealth Government. It does not say that the Queensland Act will be subject to the approval of the Minister. Yet the Minister has made it clear in his Press interviews that if the Act is unsatisfactory there will be resumption of land. I give him credit for that. I think it is appropriate to resume land. Again, there is this flavour of appeasement running through the legislation. It seems that at all costs we must not resume land for the Aboriginal people if the State does not like it. 
The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly seemed to think that it was quite all right for Aborigines in the Northern Territory to have inalienable tenure of their land. We do not even have any agreement with Queensland as to the terms of the leases that will be given to the Aurukun and Mornington Island people. I do not see any future in this pussyfooting, as I have described it. I know the Labor Government was guilty of this also. I believe that we delayed for far too long when we were in power. We should have resumed the Aboriginal reserves in all States to give the Aboriginal people selfmanagement. Honourable members can call that centralism if they like, but I say it is decentralism We would have given the sort of selfmanagement about which the present Minister is talking. I believe that that is the way to go about giving Aborigines self-management and what was in the minds of the Australian people when they voted in the referendum in 1 967. 
To sum up, the Opposition has no objection to the Bill in general terms. We will move specific amendments at the committee stage. We do not believe that the suggested amendments detract materially from the general good intentions of the Bill. We believe that they represent a holding operation which is the sort of caution we think the Minister should have before he strengthens the position of the States in these matters and certainly which he would be ill advised to ignore before he has had the fullest consultation with the Aboriginal people, the land councils and other bodies, as the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly did before it brought down its land rights legislation. 
I move: 
Omit the clause. 
As indicated briefly at the second reading stage of the debate, the Opposition feels that this Bill deprives unnecessarily an Aboriginalgroup of the right to form an Aboriginal council or to apply for one to be formed even though there happens to be a local authority in the area or proposed for the area. As the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  has said, the original Act provides in section 16(3). 
Before constituting an area under sub-section ( 1 ) as an Aboriginal Council area, the Registrar shall take into account any proposal under a law of a State or Territory for the extension to the area of local government. 
The Act did not state that just because there is a proposal for extension of local government to the area the Registrar could not still approve it as an Aboriginal council area. It simply says that he shall take that proposal into account. 
That is correct. I take the point of the honourable member which he made in his earlier speech, that it did not specify that he should take into account a local government area already in existence when the application is made. But surely that is an unnecessary provision; surely any person with common sense would do so anyway. But that is not what the amendment says. It does not say he shall take it into account; it says that he shall not accept the application. I think that is an unnecessary curtailment of the rights of the Aboriginal people to form an Aboriginal Council even though a local government exists in the area. I realise, as the honourable member said in his earlier speech, that it is possible in such a case that functions will overlap. The functions specified in relation to an Aboriginal council are virtually those of local government, but that does not mean that the Registrar could not register a council which provides a selection of those functions. For example, not every local authority provides an electricity supply, and there may be a proposal to establish one. Not every local council provides relief work for unemployed persons, and there may be a proposal to set up that sort of activity. I believe that the situation should be as flexible as possible. 
Our amendments are designed to provide for the maximum and not the minimum of flexibility in relation to applications. As we will point out when we move our later amendments in which we ask the Minister to give reasons, we believe that the Minister should be concerned with increasing communication and consultation with and increasing the education of the Aboriginal communities as to the reasons why he makes a decision against an application. The purpose of the amendments we are proposing is simply to increase the degree of consultation with the Aboriginal communities and not to increase the degree of consultation with local authorities. There is nothing in the existing Act which would prevent from occurring the sort of consultation for which the amending Bill provides in clause 1 6. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What quantity of (a) New Zealand meat was imported into Australia and (b) Australian meat was exported to New Zealand and in what categories, qualities or varieties in each of the last 3 years for which statistics are available. 
If the balance favours New Zealand exports, will he (a) investigate and (b) report upon the causes and the extent to which the various sectors and levels of the Australian meat industry appear to be affected. 
I shall confine my remarks in this debate to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1978, which is not as memorable as the principal Act of 1970 which it proposes to amend. Indeed, I think sadly that it erodes the principles that arose in 1976 out of an inquiry initiated by the previous Government, of which I had the honour to be a member. Nevertheless, the Opposition does not want to delay the passage of the greater part of this Bill. Aborigines are waiting for it. They want some action on land rights. It is  accessary  that some of the machinery measures in the amending Bill should go through to enable this to be done. I point out one or two defects in the Bill which the Opposition proposes to object to and discuss in detail at the Committee stage. 
The Bill removes the power of the Aboriginals to decline to make an agreement with the director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. The Opposition sees no need for this. It sees no reason why Aboriginal people should not have priority over parks, wildlife, land, fauna and flora. In fact, the Opposition sees every reason why Aboriginals should have a priority in those matters. At the same time the amending measure protects mining interests from disclosure of incriminating material which concerns environmental protection. It is proposed to penalise land council representatives for disclosing such material. The penalty will be a $1,000 fine or six months imprisonment. I am sure that if honourable members were to give their attention to this proposal they would see that it can do nothing for Aboriginal land rights. In fact, it will doexactly the reverse. In effect, it will gag people from making public matters of which they become aware in the performance of their function as members of a land council, a land trust or any other committee of deliberation. 
That secrecy provision prevents their disclosing that material to the public and has no justification in the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner). His  second reading speech might be summed up by saying that it claims that the legislation is designed implement land rights for Aborigines and to tidy up a few machinery matters. 
No. I have said already that the Opposition does not propose to oppose the Bill as a whole. If the honourable member had been listening he would know that I have said already that I am pointing out one or two defects in the legislation which I think are unnecessary and which we do propose to oppose at the Committee stage. This Bill does not represent just an amendment of existing legislation; at the same time it represents an abridgment of land rights. It protects the power of corporate secrecy and makes Aborigines impotent to challenge a company if it considers that disclosing its technical information might tend to incriminate it in regard to the protection of the environment. 
This trend is not so dangerous in this Bill that all Aborigines will rise up in indignation as they certainly did, for example, concerning the recent shameful legislation introduced by the Queensland Government concerning Aurukun and Mornington Island which firmly denies land ownership and mineral and quarrying rights to Aboriginal shires. But the trend is there in these particularly disturbing aspects which I have pointed out. I ask the Minister and the House to consider these aspects and to see whether a further amendment is not advisable. I think also that the Government should realise that amending legislation to gain a short term relief in our balance of payments crisis or for any of the other purposes which have been brought forward during the debate, such as to promote the accelerated processing, mining and export of uranium, should not take precedence over justice to our oppressed indigenous people, which is the theme which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs very rightly has stressed from the outset of his accepting the Aboriginal Affairs Ministry. 
It is my purpose to argue that that right to justice should take precedence over any supposed urgency to promote a package of uranium Bills. Previous Opposition speakers on this cluster of uranium Bills have made it clear that there are alternatives to nuclear power; that there are alternatives to a headlong and hellbent development at all costs. I do not think that Government supporters deny that. At times one or two speakers from the Government side have warned of an international conspiracy to weaken Australia. Of course, there are extreme views on both sides. On the matter of international conspiracy I could warn people just as strongly about international companies, combines or consortia which are committed at all costs to recouping what is in fact a multi-billion dollar investment in nuclear power. Most of the contracting companies stand to sustain a loss in the order to billions of dollars if the winding down of nuclear power stations, which has started already in the United States- at least the stations are in a waiting position- continues. So this allegation of international conspiracy can be argued both ways. 
Here in Australia- indeed, in this very city- we have a far more sensible proposition to beat the power crisis; a far more permanent and complete solution to our balance of payments problems; and a far better remedy for the parlous state of our motor industry in particular and, indeed, of the world's power generation crisis. We have this right here in this city of Canberra. We can offer the world a better solution than uranium mining to all the problems which uranium mining is supposed to solve. We hear that all the world is crying out for uranium. Since 22 February, in the first sitting week this year, I have had question No. 191 on the Notice Paper. It is directed to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and asks him about a submission from the Department of Engineering Physics of the Australian National University which was presented to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources as long ago as May 1976. That submission expresses the view, based on much sounder evidence than the evidence on which the uranium lobbyists base their arguments, that the waste problem, the security problem, can be solved. This view is based on extensive theoretical investigation, analogous commercial experience and promising experimental confirmation. Also, they can produce a prototype solar-powered energy transfer and storage system which can be made to work at costs comparable to those of existing electricity generation in outback towns in Australia. 
In addition, it should be cheaper than nuclear power; it would be well within the production capabilities of Australia, which nuclear power generation certainly is not; it would be more amenable to flexibility of siting and power storage to compensate for weather and seasonal fluctuations; and it would be more economically adaptable to evolution from a small generation complex to a large scale one. It would be far more adaptable than nuclear power generation, which has no adaptability of that kind at all. Without a multi-million dollar unit there is no power generation. In fact, in this regard the project of the Department of Engineering Physics of the Australian National University is far more promising than the competitive investigation being undertaken at a much greater cost in the United States, where they have large scale power units with reflectors which have to be on a large centralised scale. The ANU project lends itself to flexibility of size, greater economy and production within Australia for export in a way which would restore our ailing motor car industry. 
All that information was submitted to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources back in May 1976. The project has lots of side benefits, which I shall not go into but which I mentioned in my question to the Minister. After two and a half months the Minister has still not answered that question, although obviously it is an urgent one. If there is a power crisis we need to develop this alternative which is, I repeat, more promising than nuclear power because it is cleaner, cheaper and much better proved than the technology to cope with nuclear power waste disposal and security for which we are still waiting. These problems do not arise with this alternative. So let us not kid ourselves that the Government's package of uranium is the best answer to the problems which the Government is posing- the problems of our need to export, our need for a better balance of payments, our need to meet the world's energy needs or whatever. If the Government is genuine about this, let it put some research money into this project at the ANU. The ANU asked for only $4m, yet we can give tens of millions to atomic research at Lucas Heights which, as previous Opposition speakers have indicated, in many cases is outdated. 
The Opposition has no formal amendment to encompass all the amendments which have been requested by the Northern Land Council because these amendments have been submitted to the Minister. They have been discussed by the Northern Land Council with the Minister's officers. We are very severely limited as to time, but I seek the Minister's assurance, if he can give it- I trust that eventually he will- that he will include the Gimbat and Goodparla pastoral leases, as recommended by the Fox report, in the Ranger uranium areas in the Alligator Rivers region, or that he will in some way include those leases in the land rights proposals. We would appreciate the Minister's assurance on this point. I have no doubt that he means exactly what he said in this first sentence of his second reading speech: 
This Bill is intended to give effect to the Government's decisions on the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry as far as they affect Aboriginal land rights. 
However, he has created some doubt on this point by saying that any grant to the Land Council of land from the Mudginberry and Munmarlary pastoral leases would depend on that land being leased as national parkland to the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. This would be harmless enough except that the Minister may intervene to appoint an arbitrator if the Land Council fails to see eye to eye with the Director. In effect, Aborigines are to be tolerated and trusted to a very limited extent. They are not to be given prior dominion over the land and its natural assets. That may be given to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. I would feel much reassured if the Minister would for once have discussions with the Land Council first and the mining interests last. 
There is one other aspect of the Minister's speech which has relevance to the sheaf of Bills dealing with the uranium issue which we have been discussing. As I have indicated these are aimed at uranium export first, not Aboriginal rights first. Since the legislation has been in operation- that is, since 1976- it has been found that some amendments are required to ensure the effective administration and intended interpretation of the Act. The Opposition welcomes this. The Government has moved with reasonable and commendable promptness on this, as it did in relation to the original Land Rights Act, to see that land rights are given to Aborigines. All I am asking is that this consideration be given priority in those other aspects which I have mentioned. If it is possible that an Act which is only two years old needs amendment on purely administrative grounds- the Opposition does not dispute that- this should persuade us that the major thrust of the legislative package could also be subject to review. If it is necessary to review minor, trivial administrative matters after an Act has been in operation for two years, surely the Opposition is entitled to question the validity of an Act passed 30 years ago by a previous Labor government. Yet  speaker  after  speaker  on the Government side has said: 'This is what Chifley said and now you are welshing on it'. Surely if amendments are required to a two-year old Act on minor administrative matters, the Opposition is entitled to review its views on major issues after 30 years. 
The Government says: 'Well, we have had plenty of debate. We have had public exposure of these issues. The public has had plenty of time to make up its mind. ' If it is genuine in that claim it should admit also that perhaps the public could change its mind with a full and free ranging debate. Perhaps the Opposition could change its mind on some matters. The Government cannot expect that the Atomic Energy Act of a former generation- when atomic potential was seen outstandingly as a feature of the Cold War- should be equally relevant to the energy crisis of 1978. Surely today there are some glimmerings of hope of an alternative to World War III, which did not seem terribly likely at the time of the formulation of the Atomic Energy Act. The headlong and heedless rush to the brink by the Government has been well described as neglecting the crises that face the world instead of trying to solve them as the Government claims. It is leading us there ever faster in the name of deferring those crises- the energy crisis, the national economic crisis and the national balance of payments crisis. This reminds me of the rather blinkered foresight of a Russian gentleman. He said: 'You Westerners are rushing towards a precipice with your greed for more and more . . . your waste of nonreplaceable raw materials.' He then added smugly: 'We shall overtake you'. That is the approach adopted by the Government of this lucky country. There is no justification for this headlong and heedless rush into the export of uranium when the demand for it is winding down, when the whole world is having second thoughts and when here, in the city of Canberra, a reasonable, sensible and sane alternative has been neglected since May 1976. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 April, 1 978: 
What steps has the Government taken and when were they taken to foster oil seed processing and the soya bean industry in central Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Will he negotiate with the Minister for Health to have admitted a minimum quota of Aboriginals to training as school dental therapists at no cost to the States and to meet all costs of school dental therapy to schools where most children are Aboriginals. 
asked the Minister for National Development upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
What steps has the Government taken and when were they taken to develop experimental coal processing in Queensland rnining areas with a view to commerical production of motor fuel from coal when this becomes economically feasible. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department completed its consideration ofthe role of the Land Fund Commission referred to in the Minister's media release of 20 March 1978. 
) Will this consideration result in review by the Government further to its review of the Hay Report in 1 976. 
In view of urgent pressures from other Departments for conclusion of agreements between Aboriginal and mining interests, when does he expect to make public details of Government policy on Aboriginal land rights. 
What delays in arriving as such a policy have resulted from representations of (a) the Queensland Government, (b) the Western Australian Government and (c) other governments. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
In proposed section 9(3), omit 'may', substitute shall'. 
The import of this amendment is that under the Government's National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill the Director may, for the purposes of Part II of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, surrender to the Commonwealth any interest held by him in respect of land within a park or reserve within the region. Our proposal is that it should be mandatory that the Director surrender such interest. Again, we believe that such an amendment would be in the interest of the Aboriginal people and would do no harm to the interests of the Director or the interests of the Australian people. 
I move: 
Omit proposed paragraph (aa). 
The reason for proposing this deletion is that we do not believe that Aboriginal land held under lease by the Director should be singled out for the treatment outlined in this provision. If this paragraph were included in the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill its effect would be to the disadvantage of Aborigines for no well-explained reason. We believe that as far as possible a decision on the status of Aboriginal land should be left to Aborigines and that their views should take precedence over those which may be concerned with environmental issues. 
I move: 
In proposed section 14 (4), omit 'he thinks fit', substitute he thinks necessary to ensure that the Director complies with the plan of management'. 
This amendment refers to a report given to the Minister which would indicate whether the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service had, in fact, complied with an agreed plan of management. The Opposition does not believe the Minister should determine the matter other than in accordance with the plan of management. We believe, therefore, that the wording of the amendment tightens up the intent of the Bill, makes it more explicit and gives a clearer direction to the Minister as to his function in determining the matter. 
I move: 
That a select committee of this House be established to inquire into and report on extending and guaranteeing Aboriginal voting rights and obligations for the Federal, State and Territory Parliaments. 
On 19 October 1961 the House of Representatives ordered the printing of a report of its then select committee inquiring into the voting rights of Aborigines. The Committee  Chairman  represented the electorate of Capricornia, as I do. Three other members of the Committee later became Ministers-  Mr C.  E. Barnes,  Mr P.  Howson and  Mr K.  E. Beazley. One important conclusion reached was that tribal Aborigines would soon become integrated into one Australian society and that the Government should assist this to occur smoothly by providing more access to free post-primary education, including a knowledge of political and civic functions and structures, social integration of schooling and employment, and decent housing. Not all of these recommendations have been carried out. Some moves have been made towards implementing the recommendations of this report, but I think the time is opportune for us to move for something more definite along the lines recommended. There have been disturbing developments, particularly in the States of Western Australia and Queensland, which indicate the urgency of the need to assist Aborigines to integrate as full citizens with respect to voting. 
The 1961 report estimated that there were 26,000 full blood and 4,000 predominantly Aboriginal-blood Aborigines disenfranchised, except for those who were serving in or who had served in the armed forces. They gained the franchise in 1961. The superintendent of Cherbourg State Aboriginal settlement in Queensland told the Committee that he would not be allowed to inform it as to the racial descent of Cherbourg's inhabitants. Queensland at that time had the most backward provisions for voting by Aborigines which I will outline briefly. The Committee then asked the superintendent at Cherbourg to circulate to the residents a document setting out their voting rights. 
At Woodenbong Aboriginal station in New South Wales, only five out of 50 had enrolled, and people were not informed of their entitlement. Similarly, in the Torres Strait Islands, 57 out of 659 who had served in the Torres Strait Island regiment were enrolled for the Federal electorate of Leichhardt. So even among servicemen who were fully entitled to vote, less than one-thirteenth had enrolled. Most New South Wales Aborigines were exercising their long-established voting rights. In South Australia enrolment was not enforced for considerable numbers of semi-nomadic or illiterate people. However, compulsory voting did apply to those who had enrolled, as it applies, to the rest of us who are compelled to enrol. Compulsory enrolment in New South Wales and Victoria was recommended by the Committee. The Electoral Office was asked to have service and exservice personnel informed of their rights. I must stress that that is one of the recommendations which I do not think has been adequately carried out and which is a Commonwealth responsibility. 
There is an interesting comparison of State laws to which I shall briefly refer. Queensland had no franchise for persons of half or more Aboriginal blood although half castes not living with Aborigines could, if they applied, get exemption. This right did not extend to serving or former members of the armed forces. It did not extend even to those Aborigines who had been exempted from the highly paternal Aboriginal Preservation and Protection Act, popularly known then by Aborigines as the Dog Act. They had to get a ticket exempting them from the jurisdiction of that Act in order to have many of the rights of citizens that the rest of us enjoy. 
New South Wales had full franchise but in practice did not enforce enrolment. The franchise had been there since 1926, but only 487 of the 1,042 Aborigines who were on stations were enrolled. That is, in the State of New South Wales less than half of those Aborigines were enrolled, because the enrolment requirement for them was not enforced. That was probably with good reason, because after all, as I have already stated, no one had taken the trouble to explain to these people their rights and obligations. 
Victoria was in a similar position, but the state of enrolment was slightly better. South Australia had no compulsory enrolment but, as I have mentioned, voting was compulsory. Voting was available only to persons who were domiciled at one place for one month. Probably, that provision would have to remain. If people cannot give a firm address for a period of more than one month it would be difficult to enrol them, irrespective of their racial or cultural background. 1 have no great quibble with that, but I think it is a matter which deserves the attention of the Government. Western Australia was not quite as backward as Queensland. It did allow what was described as 'fit and proper' serving or honourably discharged service personnel to apply for citizenship despite their being 'natives'. That was defined as having one-fourth or more Aboriginal blood. Once the parents applied for and obtained exemption, their children were also exempt. In fact, the Committee disclosed a technical reason why serving or former armed services personnel were already automatically entitled to vote, but this entitlement had not been implemented in Western Australia. 
The Northern Territory regulations provided for the vote for serving or former defence force members but not for wards declared under the Welfare Ordinance, which was another paternalistic provision. This meant that something like 1 7,000 Northern Territory Aborigines had been declared, by reason of their manner of living, personal associations, standard of social habits and behaviour or inability to manage their own affairs unaided, in need of special care or assistance. Only 89 out of roughly 17,000 Aborigines had not been declared wards or had been removed from the register of wards. However, part Aboriginal people were fully enfranchised in the Northern Territory and in practice were not regarded as Aboriginals. That was a substantial improvement on the situation in some of the States, particularly Queensland and Western Australia. 
The Committee recommended voluntary enrolment for Aborigines and Torres Strait 
Islanders, that is, outside New South Wales and Victoria, but compulsory voting for those who were enrolled. It wanted specially qualified electoral officers to be provided- this has never been followed up; no government has done this- to receive enrolment applications at places accessible to Aborigines and help to be provided to them to enrol upon expression of a wish to enrol. The mere fact that the Aboriginal makes some attempt or expresses the desire to enrol should be an indication that help and advice should be available to facilitate this. The Committee recommended penalties for duress or undue influence on Aborigines in the exercise of their franchise and an explanation of voting and Parliament, using well prepared visual aids and publications, to Aborigines at settlements and other centres. Surely all these are sound provisions which are even more urgent than they were 17 years ago when the House received this report. Seventeen years is a long time to wait to implement sound and sensible procedures and recommendations for proper integration of our Aboriginal citizens. 
I indicated that more polling places were needed in the Territory. The experience with the elections for the National Aboriginal Conference certainly backs up that statement. The Committee of this House in 1961 rejected considerations of alcoholism, bank balance, education, work or housing as having any proper bearing on fitness to vote. I think that there would be very little dissent from that view in the House today. The interesting fact is that neither the Commonwealth nor the States has yet implemented these recommendations in full. 
We have by and large provided for voluntary enrolment for Aborigines who, when enrolled, are subject to the same compulsory voting as the rest of us, but outstandingly we have not provided for official means to facilitate enrolment and voting. If Western Australia had done so we would not have had the disgraceful spectacle last year of a Western Australian Minister being found by a court of disputed returns to have been responsible for putting pressure on illiterate Aborigines not to enrol or not to vote, his expressed justification being that many of them had been brainwashed by his Australian Labor Party opponents while he personally found it distasteful to campaign among illiterates. 
If Queensland had followed the recommendations of the Committee of this House we would not have witnessed another scandalous event last year, the suspension for six months of the Queensland Aboriginal eye care program because the Premier was afraid that energetic 
Aboriginal field workers were persuading Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, whose languages they understood in many cases, to enrol. At the time the Premier was interviewed and asked to give reasons for his action in putting pressure on the Federal Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists to withdraw the team which had been recommended to Professor Hollows who was in charge of the eye care project in Queensland. These Aboriginal contact peopleenergetic, capable and linguistically qualified people- were recommended to him by the Federal Department of Health and by the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs as competent people. They were praised by Professor Hollows for their efficiency and hard work over enormously long hours in officially contacting people. The Premier accused them of political activities. 
He was interviewed on television by  Mr Paul  Davey, who asked what evidence the Premier had that they were political activists. The Premier told  Mr Davey  that he could check with community leaders in some of the areas in which these two accused men were engaged in the Aboriginal eye care project who had seen bundles of electoral enrolment cards. I wrote to the Premier on 23 March and thanked him for making it possible for a television interviewer to disclose that evidence. I asked whether he would extend the same courtesy to me so that I could contact his informants, those leaders of communities whom he said could confirm the political activism. The reply from the Premier was that he had nothing to add to his previous statements. I think that that is a highly irresponsible way in which to proceed. 
The Premier has made misleading statements not only on this matter but also in regard to his family's mining interests, when he was confronted with documentary evidence that his statements were incorrect and deliberately misleading. This would probably have led to his sacking from office in any other Ministry in Australia except his own. Yet this sort of shameful interference with the democratic rights of Aboriginal citizens to enrol and to vote goes on with impunity. The Federal Government should look at constitutional amendments, if it is necessary to go to that length, to ensure that State governments also will carry out the recommendations made 1 7 years ago by the all-party Committee of this House which, as I said, was chaired by my Liberal Party predecessor in Capricornia. 
I do not propose to take my full time because I hope that this matter will come to a vote and that a decision will be arrived at. The Opposition is not opposed to a suggestion that the Government will move an amendment to refer the matter to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. That Committee was set up after I placed this matter on the Notice Paper, But in whatever way it is done, I think that the matter should come to a vote and that a decision should be arrived at today so that we can demonstrate our concern to enable Aborigines to become full citizens and eventually to justify compulsory enrolment as for other citizens. Obviously it is not justified now when we have not taken steps to explain enrolment equally and to make it equally accessible to all Aboriginal communities. 
Papua New Guinea has shown us how illiterate peoples can be made aware of voting rights and responsibilities and how voting procedures can be simplified. Many other countries have pioneered similar facilities. The National Aboriginal Conference elections last year have shown how we can do the same. It is time a concerted program was developed and a positive policy adopted to achieve definite goals in specified times. Seventeen years is far too long. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
After sub-section (2) of proposed section 8C insert the following sub-section: (2a) A township shall not be established or developed by the Director on Aboriginal land except after consultation with the Aboriginal Land Council established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 for the area in which the land is situated.'. 
The effect of our amendment, if it were adopted, would be that a township could not be established or developed by the Director on Aboriginal land except after consultation with the Aboriginal Land Council established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 for the area in which the land was situated. I think that the proposed amendment is self-explanatory. It is a reasonable amendment and is in accordance with the spirit of many other sections of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act and other Acts, for which we have been debating amending Bills this week. I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to consider accepting our proposed amendment in that spirit. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
Section 9 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) 'sub-section (2), no right, title or interest' and substituting 'sub-sections (2) and (3), no interest'; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsections: 
The Director may, for the purposes of Part II of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, surrender to the Commonwealth any interest held by him in respect of land within a park or reserve within the Region. 
In this section, 'lease', in relation to Aboriginal land, means sublease.'. 
The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
Section 14 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: 
Where, in respect of Aboriginal land wholly or partly within the area for which an Aboriginal Land Council has been established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, being an area wholly or partly within the Region, a difference of opinion arises between the  Chairman  of that Council and the Director as to whether the Director is performing his functions or exercising his powers in accordance with a plan of management, the Minister shall appoint a person, being a person whom he considers to be in a position to deal with the matter impartially, for the purposes of sub-section ( 3 ). 
A person appointed under sub-section (2) shall inquire into the matter and submit a report, together with his recommendations, to the Minister. 
Upon receipt of a report and recommendations under sub-section (3), the Minister shall give the Director such directions in the matter as he thinks fit, and the Director shall comply with those directions. '. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-section (3) of proposed section I 7  a. 
The Opposition believes there has been undue concern to protecting mining interests in this whole series of Bills. I refer, for example, to the question of penalties for a supervising scientist who discloses a matter that he discovers in the course of his supervisory duties, which was dealt with in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. If it is necessary to have an industrial inspector, a health inspector or any other kind of authority to monitor and restrain the activities of a corporate body, surely the least we can do is to give that authority the freedom that is extended to industrial inspectors and other authorities who have a responsibility, by virtue of their public position, not to disclose information irresponsibly. The Opposition feels that this is an unwarranted concession to private interests. We feel that it is dangerous and smacks of totalitarian procedures rather than democratic procedures. We strongly urge the Parliament to omit sub-section ( 3 ). 
Amendment negatived. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-section (4) of proposed section I7C. 
The Opposition believes that there are already adequate safeguards for individual rights in court procedures. The only kind of incrimination we can envisage is that very type of incrimination which ought to be brought out. We believe that so much protection is offered by this sub-section, for some kinds of breaches of the law there would be no remedy possible and that all sorts of powerful restraints are available to corporate bodies to restrict the flow of information to such an extent that it is very difficult to police their behaviour. We believe that the court ought to have the discretion, whether privately or in public hearings, to have access to that type of information. Certainly it refers to incriminating a person but in many cases acts for which corporate bodies are responsible can be punished only by prosecuting an individual. We believe that such individuals acting as agents of corporate bodies have undue blanket protection under this subsection. 
The Opposition opposes this clause. For the reasons I outlined earlier we wish it to be omitted from the Bill. Aboriginal interests should take priority over national parks, wildlife or any other interests in the disposal, administration or allocation of purposes to Aboriginal land. We believe that this clause makes an unnecessary and unwarranted intrusion into those rights, if in the administration of those lands we are really interested in Aboriginal land rights and Aboriginal priorities. 
I move: 
Omit proposed sections 12b and 12c. 
The Opposition outlined its objections to these proposed sections during the second reading debate. I do not want to detail the Committee on the amendment. The principles behind it have been well outlined. We propose to divide the Committee on the first two amendments to this Bill because we think they involve important principles. The first of those amendments is the one which I have just moved. We believe that the 
Aboriginal people and not the Director of National Parks and Wildlife ought to be the authority which decides the disposal and the use of Aboriginal land. Nor should an arbitrator be interposed by the Minister between those parties. 
Question put- 
That the sections proposed to be omitted  (Dr Everingham's amendment)  stand pan of the clause. 
-I move: 
Omit proposed section 23e. 
In common with so many of the clauses to which the Opposition has objected in this package of Bills on uranium this provision involves secrecy. The need for that approach has not been justified to this Parliament. Certainly there are grounds for having more than ordinary secrecy in legislation relating to atomic energy passed in the shadow of a nuclear war or even a cold war. However, this is not a military operation. Admittedly there may be grounds for some degree of secrecy where industrial secrets are involved. There is no special kind of secrecy in this sort of industry which warrants this provision. We are utterly opposed to the severe penalties of $1,000 or imprisonment for six months. We have been through all of this before in the debates on other Bills. We totally oppose the secrecy provision. 
Question put- 
That the section proposed to be omitted  (Dr Everingham^ motion)  stand part of the clause. 
I move: 
After clause 1 1 , insert the following new clause:  1 1a. Section 42 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
If a Proclamation referred to in paragraph 40 ( 1 ) (b) or 41 ( 1 ) (b) is not laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 S sitting days of that House after the making of the Proclamation, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect, as if the Proclamation had not been made. 
If either House of the Parliament, in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given, within 1 S sitting days after a copy of a Proclamation has been laid before that House, passes a resolution disallowing the Proclamation, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect, as if the Proclamation had not been made. 
If, at the expiration of 1 S sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow a Proclamation has been given in a House of the Parliament, being notice given within 15 sitting days after a copy of the Proclamation has been laid before that House- 
the Proclamation has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect as if the Proclamation had not been made. 
If, before the expiration of 15 sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow a Proclamation has been given in a House of the Parliament- 
that House is dissolved or, being the House of Representatives, expires or the Parliament is prorogued; and 
at the time of the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case may be- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, the copy of the Proclamation shall, for the purposes of sub-sections (3) and (4), be deemed to have been laid before that House on the first sitting day of that House after the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case maybe.'. 
The amendment is in the terms used in the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, which was debated earlier today, to provide that the Houses of the Parliament will have an opportunity to disallow a proclamation. Under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, if a proclamation is not laid before the House, as our amendment requires, it could actually become law without the Houses of Parliament having an opportunity to debate it. I believe that this is a drafting error. At the time of the introduction of that act a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  raised this matter with Parliamentary Counsel. I believe that the wording we have provided in our amendment would overcome this disability and would make it possible for either House of the Parliament to move for disallowance and for that motion to be determined, instead of it perhaps being put to the bottom of the Notice Paper where it might never be determined and, under existing procedures, the proclamation would then become law without an opportunity for debate on it. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) When will colour recording be available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Rockhampton, Queensland, which provides the most comprehensive television news coverage in Central Queensland. 
What other priorities will be met first. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
Did he receive a request or requests from the Queensland Premier to have two field workers suspended or sacked from the national trachoma survey and eye health program in late 1977; if so, what was the substance of the Premier's complaints against field workers in the program. 
) What action did he take in response to the complaints. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Has the Western Australian Government kept him informed of legislative proposals to deprive Oombulgurri Aboriginals of self-management, land rights and control of mining. 
Will he promptly inform the House of all developments in discussions between the parties concerned. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Paul  Everingham, arrange purchase of the Scott Creek- Willeroo property by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly through its Primary Producers Board, with the sale to become effective 3 1 March 1978. 
Under what statutory powers did the Board (a) acquire and manage the property on behalf of the previous owner or receiver and (b) buy and sell stock and equipment. 
Has final settlement been delayed by  Mr Everingham  's refusing a loan offered by the receiver and seeking a European loan at a lower interest rate, thus bypassing the Loan Council, without provision for adjustment of interest with currency fluctuations. 
Who will pay employees on the property for work since 31 March 1978. 
Did  Mr Everingham  warn him that a scandal could arise from this transaction. 
Did he reply to the effect that complaints would be referred to  Mr Everingham. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the program  This Day Tonight  of 30 January 1978 which investigated the non-payment of social security benefits; if so, (a) did the Department of Social Security staff on that program claim that the Department is grossly understaffed and (b) did the management say they are capable of handling all payments. 
With present staff ceilings, (a) can the Department of Social Security meet its commitments and (b) can it do so without exploiting staff willing to do much paid and unpaid overtime. 
What provisions are made for those waiting for overdue cheques who have no money, and how and when are they notified of these provisions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) What cost/benefit studies have been made of (a) the proposal for railway links between north-west Queensland, the Northern Territory and the natural gas and ore reserves of Western Australia, and (b) the electrification of main railway links in Australia. 
) When will the results be made public 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
Will the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting working group on energy give early consideration to the solar energy transfer techniques being developed at the Research School of Physical Sciences at the Australian National University. 
On behalf of the Opposition I commend, as has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  the report of Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Toohey, as a landmark determination and a review of a totally new judicial procedure. We acclaim the Minister's promise to table such reports but we trust that he will be more prompt in doing so in the future. However, we have some misgivings over the deletion from the report of paragraphs giving confidential details, as the Minister describes them, of an agreement between Mount Isa Mines Ltd and the Commonwealth. 
We hear frequent and strident complaints from members and senators on the Government side about who is running the country. Accusing fingers are pointed at unionists who are forfeiting all their pay to try to get an arbitration hearing or a conference, and charges of disloyalty are wildly laid on union leaders who are struggling night and day to persuade wildcat strikers to go back to work. Blame and abuse are hurled at  Mr Bob  Hawke and the Australian Council of Trade Unions although he and the ACTU have more than once ironed out major disruptive stoppages, sometimes with ugly and dangerous possibilities, which the Government sought only to foment by provocative, ill-informed comments from a distance.  Her  Majesty's most loyal Opposition, when it happens to be a Labor Party in any parliament of Australia, is accused of irresponsibly wrecking the economy, the country, law and order and national security; yet Labor Party governments have done more than any conservative government, or its closest friends among the media, to set up schools, tribunals, conciliation and public awareness of the facts about who is running the country. 
We have conservative governments making secret deals with major foreign developers, like Mount Isa Mines, Aurukun Associates, the Iwasaki-Sangyo company and others. Those companies are held to no guidelines as to the national interest by their great and powerful friends on our Treasury benches except for a few watered down guidelines inherited from the Whitlam Government and which were brought in against entrenched resistance. Let one Labor Minister so much as have breakfast with a foreign investor and the Press and the capital establishment which is now in the political saddle call for his blood, demand his demotion or haul him to court. 
But here we have a secret land deal involving traditional Aboriginal land. The details of all Aboriginal plans and claims, even the sites of some of the religious sanctuaries, must be made public to achieve recognition. Yet the adversaries at law of the Aborigines are protected from the public gaze and the Press will probably do nothing about this but respectfully doff its cap and lower its eyes as befits a loyal serf. 
The Commissioner has done his job well in putting Mount Isa Mines in its place and its claims in proper perspective. Let me quote a few extracts from pages 96 to 10 1 of the report on the Borroloola land claim. The first reads: 
If any of the claims are acceded to it will make no difference to the activities presently carried on by Mount Isa Mines and in that sense no detriment will result to it. The company's real concern lies in the facilities it will require if it proves worthwhile to develop the mine. 
Further on it states: 
. there is force in the criticism made by  Mr Laurie  of the company 's failure to present a clearer picture of what the future might hold, particularly having regard to the very strong attack made on the viability of the entire project.  Mr Thompson  recognised that the best results obtained so far are not good enough to ensure a commercial viable operation'. 
The following comment was made in the report about the evidence of  Mr Zorn: 
Mount Isa mines cannot expect to launch a viable mining operation. 
The Commissioner went on to say: 
And I do not think the company would dissent from that proposition . . . the company is confident that at some time in the future ... it will be able to go ahead. Clearly enough the future of the mine can be no more than a matter of speculation, particularly since no attempt was made by the company to counter  Mr Zorn  's assessment. 
After a quick glance through the report- it was made available to the Opposition only this morningthe only reference I found to the Bing Bong pastoral lease is on the map at the end. This is a highly significant omission. Because the Bing Bong pastoral lease is deemed at law to be an alienation of Crown land the Commissioner is unable to consider Aboriginal claims to it. But the Minister will be aware that the pastoral land is the choicest part of the Aborigines' claim to both the pastoral lease and the unalienated land. It is central to their traditional land, and to that of other Aborigines. It is used by one of the widest networks of traditionally associated Aborigines in Australia. 
The lease can be acquired by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, an entirely different mechanism from that adopted to acquire the unalienated land, as the report has outlined. I would welcome the Minister's confirmation that he has approved moves by the Commission to acquire it. I also draw his attention to question No. 1307 which I placed on notice yesterday and which indicates how many vital questions remain unanswered. I believe that the Minister acted with some alacrity to give the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission authority to investigate a purchase after getting a letter this month, but this leaves grave doubs about the competence and dedication of someone in his administration. Mount Isa Mines, and the Aborigines, even earlier, both indicated their interest to the Government. That busy man, the then Treasurer, acted with commendable promptness to approve the purchase of Bing Bong by Mount Isa Mines, but apparently some people were derelict in their duty in not presenting much earlier the Aboriginals ' counter claim. 
The area of Bing Bong is important. It is a coastal region which separates the islands, considered by the Commissioner, and which the Minister now accepts as being, land to which Aboriginals are entitled, from the Borroloola town common, which is the other part of the land acceded to Aborigines by the Minister's statement and by the report. The Bing Bong area is the land used most intensively by Aborigines in the region. The acquisition of the area is fundamental to the success of land rights policy insofar as that policy has any socio-economic aims at all. I think the Minister would concede, if he reads the Aborigines' case, that without Bing Bong they have less than half a loaf. That is the effect of the present decision. 
The Yanyula and Mara Aborigines living at Borroloola, Ngukurr and Numbulwar have been interested in acquiring Bing Bong station since at least 1975. 1 think that if the Minister communicates with the Foreign Investment Review Board, the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, with everybody who is concerned in this rather dilatory approach by some people to the acquisition of the Bing Bong station for Aboriginals, he will find that even as far back as 1973 there is something on his departments files about this area. The coastal area can provide a stable source of culturally valued and nutritious high protein foods throughout the year. Access to the coastal area cannot be obtained in the wet season without going through Bing Bong. Because of the unemployment in the wet season the Aboriginals are thrown into a pretty depressed financial situation and are dependent on the less nutritious store foods. This affects the health of the community. John Avery, who has been living in this area with the Aborigines for some years- he is an anthropology student- believes people have died as a result. 
The choice Yanyula and Mara camping areas at Borroloola are flooded in the wet season and this restricts housing development. Bing Bong is the logical place. It is a choice site and it has been commercially developed to some extent by white people. Obviously it is the Aborigines' choice for a settlement. There they could develop economic as well as subsistence activities such as a pastoral industry, fishing, crabbing, gardening- with the use of the bore water on the station- tourism, but under their control, and tourist fishing. Their religious and ceremonial activities are most important. This area is the centre of them. These uses have been keenly advanced by Aborigines. They see these enterprises as making use of the skills of young educated people. The present under-use of these skills is a cause of concern to them, and rightly so, as it is of concern to all Aboriginal people and as the Minister has conceded. 
Relocation at Bing Bong would allow them control over alcohol, which is purchased from the Borroloola Inn. Obviously these problems are not going to get any less while the Aborigines feel constrained to stay in the Borroloola town area, subsisting all too often on store food, with no access to their traditional nutritious food and active way of life. Living in the town, the Aborigines feel there are unwarranted intrusions in that Europeans have interrupted ceremonies, entered their camps at night and even their dwellings, and molested women at times. The tourists in the area have a subtle and unpleasant effect on the lives of the Aborigines which surely could be better controlled if the Aborigines felt that they were masters of their own destiny and of tourist entry to the area. 
The 87 people listed as traditional Aboriginal owners of the town common at Borroloola and the islands to which the report refers include traditional owners of Bing Bong station lands, and the traditional land rights as distinct from ownership usufruct of the land for various purposes, extend to a much larger group. They use the land as a natural resource and, as I have indicated, as a spiritual centre. There are owners of other territorial estates at Bing Bong which were not brought to the attention of the Land Commissioner. The Kunapipi estate on the western most part of the station is an area used for one of the most important cult ceremonies performed in the Gulf of Carpentaria, and indeed in Arnhem Land. The Goanna Dreaming estate, to the south and east of the Kunapipi estate, and other areas have been nominated. The acquisition of Bing Bong for local Aborigines would have farreaching and beneficial significance to Aborigines in western Queensland, the Barkly Tablelands and an area to the east, including southeast Arnhem Land. It would significantly strengthen the infrastructure of the wider Aboriginal community. If it is lost to Aboriginal control there will be a steady decline of Aboriginal social institutions and self-determination throughout the area. 
A full survey of sites on Bing Bong has not been undertaken, but John Avery says that there are well over 150. Even those he has visited were too numerous to list in his seven-page statement. There is some probability that the Kunapipi cult originated in this area and spread westward to large areas of the Northern Territory, roughly about the time of European colonisation. So these sites may well have national historic significance. In the Land Council submission to the Land Commissioner, John Avery described 10 places on Bing Bong which were used extensively or frequently, and he detailed their uses. The most enduring camps were on the eastern side of Batten Creek and the Carrington River. They are not subject to the surveillance of the station caretaker and are some of the few sites the Aborigines feel safe to occupy while there is a caretaker on the pastoral lease. The subsistence activities and the exchanges which arise from them are the basis of the women's society, which is able to mitigate to some extent men's control of ritual life. Without the bush resources economy, as 
John Avery has called it, the position of women in the community would deteriorate, and the assimilation of local Aborigines to the position of wage labourers would be advanced at the cost of a breakdown of community life. 
The relocation of Aborigines at Bing Bong would allow a more even, flexible and ecologically sound use of the land. At the moment it is in the hands of caretakers rather than managers. It is a couple of years since there has been even one Aboriginal employed there. There are wild cattle and buffaloes and only a handful of high class stock. I am not casting doubt on the Minister's motives. I believe that he will take up the points I have mentioned, but I think he will concede that in statements he made before he became Minister he spoke frequently of mineral rights. The more the phrase 'mineral rights' rears its ugly head, the more I am afraid that we will want prompt action to indicate that they will not override Aboriginal rights. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What steps have been taken to negotiate extension of (a) the Antarctic denuclearised zone and (b) the denuclearised zone in outer space. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What part will Australia play in the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament. 
Will any members and senators be delegates at the session. 
The Opposition supports the States and Northern Territory Grants (Bluetongue Virus Control) Bill. However, we rather regret that many of the measures adopted here have not been planned in advance. We have known for several years now that the risks of bluetongue, foot and mouth and various other exotic diseases coming into this country were increasing. Stringent quarantine measures have been asked for by the industry, particularly the cattle and sheep industries, over a period of five or six years. As Minister for Health for a period in charge of quarantine matters, I was privileged to initiate some moves to prepare for an eventuallity such as the outbreak of bluetongue by the provision of animal virus laboratories, high security virus laboratories and on off-shore animal quarantine station and so on. Many of these measures are still in the pipeline. I wonder whether they could not have been hurried along a little and whether by this time we should have some prepared to meet an outbreak of a disease of this kind which could have been called into effect on this occasion. However, the crisis has occurred. Something has to be done. At least this legislation is a start. 
I think that some aspects of this Bill, for example, the funding arrangements, could be reviewed. I trust that the Government will review them from time to time. People in the Northern Territory in particular who are moving towards self-government are concerned that the financial arrangements for the Northern Territory after 1 July have not been spelt out. They want to know who will raise funds of a type normally provided by the States which to this time have been a Commonwealth responsibility. This Bill is just one example of that grey area of doubt, concern and even alarm in some parts of the Territory, including people in the Majority Party of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I think the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  ought to try to clarify for those people what their status and obligations will be in regard to funding arrangements after 1 July. 
The Bill attempts to provide for three of the major cost burdens that will be placed on beef growers and on government testing faculties. The second reading speech of the Minister did not tell us exactly what the extent and function of the laboratory facilities will be. The amounts provided are fairly modest sums as laboratories go. They are $100,000 for the Northern Territory, $75,000 for Queensland and $50,000 for Western Australia. Those are maximum amounts for laboratory equipment. Presumably the equipment will go into existing laboratories. There should be a public announcement soon of what those facilities are and what they will be able to do. Will they greatly accelerate the enormous delay that takes place? I understand that it takes two years between the initial collection of specimens on the suspicion that some kind of bluetongue virus may have broken out and the final identification of the virus. As the virus is now already in Australia, will this obviate a lot of the very costly high security provisions that were contemplated before the virus got here? In other words, will the identification of the virus be much cheaper in these laboratories than if we were trying to identify de novo? 
If we were not sure that the virus was already here and we were testing potentially infected specimens either from within Australia or from the forthcoming off-shore quarantine station, we would require very high security measures to prevent the spread of the virus into the rest of the community. The amounts of money being paid to offset mustering costs, movement of stock, blood testing and, particularly, movement testing including animals for export, will all be considered by the industry as being very much less than the costs that will be sustained by the cattle producers particularly because of the marked shrinking of their markets. There has been a restriction of overseas markets which may not selectively affect people in the Northern Territory but which will affect the industry as a whole. In particular there has been a restriction of markets within Australia, because of the reluctance of buyers in the southern States to take cattle from the north whether they be stud stock or other stock. 
Compensation for risks which are beyond the control of the primary producer- a kind of national insurance- ought to be provided by the Government particularly with a view to forestalling a more serious outbreak which could occur in the future. It is unfortunate that the former Labor Government did not clamp an excessive profit tax, a sort of compulsory insurance, on the beef industry when there was a boom in order to build up a reserve fund. I imagine that we would have been less popular if we had done so. Any government would be if it took that sort of action. The market for beef or any of the ruminants susceptible to this virus such as sheep or goats is not now buoyant. There are no areas in which prices are buoyant or above normal which would justify taxing the industry. We have to look at the serious possibility that the Australian taxpayer will have to shoulder the risks of some other disease breaking out. 
It is not at all unlikely that foot and mouth disease will come to Australia in our time judging by the experience of other countries and the greater risks we are subjected to by the increasing movement of people into Australia. They could be carrying, for example, undercooked meat which they did not declare to customs officers. If there was an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australia and it was allowed to go undetected for as long as the bluetongue virus did, Australian livestock industries could face a loss of about $ 1,000m. It is unlikely that the disease would go undetected. Fortunately or unfortunately, the bluetongue virus has not caused symptoms in cattle whereas foot and mouth disease would arouse suspicions much earlier and hopefully before it had spread beyond control. Even so, we could not be sure that it would not spread to buffalo or wild ruminants that we cannot control. We might never be able to eradicate it from this continent. It would greatly reduce the value and the scope of our export markets and the number of countries which would be willing to take our exports. It would greatly increase costs of production because of the need to vaccinate throughout the country. 
I commend the legislation. However, I suggest that the Government ought to be stimulating discussion with the industry on contingent plans for an outbreak of some other virus that may be far more deadly than this one. Perhaps some form of contingent funding ought to be looked at. I hope it will be possible for the Government to improve on the variety and extent of the funding available of the kind that is outlined in the Bill. The beef industry has taken the brunt of the outbreak of bluetongue, not because of the effects of the disease on cattle but because of the anxiety that the virus may be transferred to the sheep industry. Initial tests have shown that the virus could be highly virulent. It could cause considerable commercial damage to the sheep flocks of Australia. 
I trust that the Minister will keep us fully informed on this, expecially as it seems that there is more than one strain of virus now in Australia. The outbreak in New South Wales, being of a different strain, presumably has come in through a different channel. I would hope that some fairly strenuous investigations are proceeding, to see if it is not just a mutant of the same virus; whether we can track down the avenues by which these viruses have entered Australia and thus, hopefully, prevent further strains from entering in the same way. 
The Opposition wishes to comment on this Bill without moving an amendment. Whilst we are not supporting specifically the type of amendment which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has moved, we do agree that the compensation figure of $45,000 is totally inadequate. According to the formula put up in 1970 by the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  the figure should be $67,000. I notice that the honourable member now is asking that it be something like $250,000 although in June 1976 he opposed an Austrlian Labor Party amendment which would have raised it to $67,000. 
-I point out to the Minister that there is no indication of the authorities concerned, how long the traditional period will be or what the subsequent arrangements will be. I hope that he will make those details available to honourable members. They concern the management of Aboriginal sacred sites, education and so on. What are the authorities concerned and what future action is proposed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I do not wish to detain the House. I made a brief reference in my speech during the second reading debate on the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill to the fact that this is one of the key areas in respect of which the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was not consulted. It has financial implications. I simply stress that the Opposition is concerned at the failure of the Government to have consultations in this regard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
While the Opposition has not opposed the discussion of these Bills together we are rather concerned at the precipitate way in which some Bills have been brought in this week to be debated this week; in particular, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bills (No. 2) and (No. 3). They may at first sight appear to be purely machinery matters that could be debated in this way, but it will be recalled that the Opposition had extensive amendments to move on the original Bill and it could be anticipated that we would be wanting to raise some of these matters. There should be time made available to the Opposition to consult in its party committees and party meetings to determine its attitude to all these matters. So I suggest to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  that we are not happy about the way legislation has been rushed through this week, even though it may appear from the Government's point of view that they are purely machinery Bills. There are matters that have to be considered in a responsible way and they are important Bills, particularly in the light of the first one that is coming before the House today- the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill. It is to this Bill that I will address my remarks in the second reading. 
The Australian Labor Party favours decentralisation. 
The honourable member who interjects - 
He did not interject. He said 'Oh'. 
Well, the honourable gentleman who has now interjected belongs to a party which even today was making a great song about handing back to the States their taxing powers. It was pointed out by honourable members on this side of the House that the Australian Labor Party when in power federally did more to decentralise decision-making to local government than any of the States. We made available to local government 2.3 per cent of income tax takings, even ignoring the Regional Employment Development scheme which was called on mainly by local government, but the present income tax formula gives local government far less than the 2 per cent of income tax revenue for which it is now asking. 
The Opposition favours decentralisation, selfdetermination and self-government. In recent times the Queensland Government has been doing its darnedest to prevent Aboriginal communities from achieving self-government as they understand that term- that is, self-management and self-determination. The Opposition's platform provides for statehood for the Northern Territory after a plebescite, which is normal democratic procedure. One does not expect major constitutional changes to be made without a vote of the people affected. While the degree of self-government planned to be given to the Northern Territory next month is short of statehood, in the opinion of several people it does go more than halfway towards statehood. Yet the determination of which functions are to be transferred to the Territory has been made imperfectly, spelt out slowly and defined with poor consultation or, at best, poor publicity has been given to that consultation. Even among the elected representatives in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, which has a majority with the same political persuasion as this Government and in the Territory generally there has been widespread concern at this lack of consultation. This is nothing new. 
The image of Canberra's bureaucracy in the north and the centre of Australia is even worse than it is in the States and the Australian Capital Territory, if that is possible. This in itself is no reflection on the Government but it ought to be a warning that before a major constitutional change of this kind takes place the Government should not only consult but also clearly be seen to consult with the people of the Territory. They are just as intelligent as the advisers of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  in Canberra. The people in the Territory know a vast amount more about their problems, their needs, the possible solutions of those problems and the disastrous failures of previous attempted solutions dreamed up or re-edited all too often by Cabinets and bureaucrats in Canberra or bureaucrats sent to the Northern Territory under one system or another with over-rigid Public Service guidelines and procedures to observe. Selfgovernment will do something to cut through the red tape that so often strangles appropriate action. I stress again that the Australian Labor Party is acutely aware of this and has moved with no less dispatch than the present Government to prepare for this stage of selfgovernment. In fact, the record will show that when in government we took quite a few steps to achieve self-determination, particularly for the Australian Capital Territory, and some of those steps are being duplicated in a similar move for the Northern Territory. 
The Opposition basically objects to the lack of consultation and publicity on how the administration of the Northern Territory is to be financed The straws in the wind, the brief indications that we have had in recent days- a couple have surfaced even today- are that there will be increasing burdens placed upon the Northern Territory to raise its own funding. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  presented a report on the Northern Territory forestry program and the remark was made that it will be up to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to decide the future of that program. Clearly the Assembly will have to do a pretty severe pruning job on it as this Government would have to do if it were administering the Territory after 1 July. However, the handing over of projects which can be made viable, profitable and reasonable is not really the main concern of the Northern Territory. The Territory's main concern is for those services which will need a continuing input far into the future in excess of the input that is normally available to the States. The fact that one-third of the Territory's population is Aboriginal in itself places an enormous burden on the planning and administration of the Territory although, of course, the responsibility for providing services to the Aborigines will remain with this Government. 
However, this does not alter the fact that it does create problems for the local administration. It is not possible to package and compartment the population of the Northern Territory into Aborigines and non-Aborigines and to say that these are the health, education, welfare, transport and other services for Aboriginal people, and those are the services for nonAboriginals. Many of these services must be provided for the whole population. There is an increasing, urgent and obvious need to delineate responsibility in all areas of administration so that the people in the Territory know where they are going and where they stand. Earlier this week honourable members on the Government side were saying that the need for funding and planning of projects is something that the Northern Territory Administration will have to iron out in the future. Certainly we will not be deserting or abandoning the Administration. Honourable members opposite in the debate earlier this week on the new taxation arrangements criticised the 
States for not encouraging investment and settlement in the States, such as Queensland did by abolishing death duties. However, I think they should look to their own Government's planning in the Northern Territory to see what encouragement it is providing for people to settle there, especially when it does not spell out what the financial obligations of the people in the Territory will be. Will the Northern Territory be forced to raise enormous sums by way of, say, stamp duties out of all proportion with that raised in the States in order to finance its Administration? Will this intimidate and deter people from going to the Northern Territory? Will it aggravate the difficulty that exists in attracting and encouraging public servants to go and stay in the Northern Territory? The Government ought to be spelling out what those financial arrangements are, as the States do. 
One of the biggest inhibitions to adequate and efficient services in the Northern Territory is that people who go there from within the Public Service are disadvantaged and not treated as generously as are public servants in Canberra. In many respects they have inferior accommodation in the departments and do not have the financial incentives offered by many private enterprises, such as mining companies. I was able to take a small step towards correcting the position when I was the Minister for Health. When I found that Tennant Creek was so unpopular with health personnel that the town could not retain even one doctor, let alone a medical superintendent with a junior doctor assisting him, I made a special locality allowance to attract a doctor there. This allowance was matched by the mining company at Tennant Creek but, unfortunately, shortly after, because of the financial restraints that were forced on the Labor Government, and no doubt on other governments around the world, the Public Service Board became very reticent and was unwilling to allow any further development of this sort of incentive. I think the Government ought to be looking at the sorts of zone allowances and fringe benefits that should be made available to people to go to the less popular areas of the Northern Territory which include, by and large, any part of the Territory other than the far north, the Top End. Financial arrangements ought to have been discussed and spelt out before the Government was asked to approve, in this rather blanket way, all the constitutional provisions for handing over so many functions to the Northern Territory. I shall move, at the end of my speech, an amendment which seeks to substitute these words for the words in the motion. 
That the Bill be withdrawn until a plebiscite has shown that voters of the Northern Territory approve the financial and constitutional provisions due to take effect on 1 July 1978. 
It is not just the financial and constitutional provisions of the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill which exercise our concern. Whilst I have stressed that the Labor Party wants self-government and self-determination, it wants it at a rate that may correspond more of less with the sorts of steps taken here, but the Labor Party also stresses that it wants the Northern Territory Assembly to undertake a little bit of decentralisation also, in self-government. We are not terribly impressed by the record of the present Administration in Darwin with regard to Aboriginal affairs, just as we are not very impressed with the record of the States, particularly those States with governments of the same political colour as the Northern Territory Administration. I am not alone, and the Opposition is not alone, in this concern because this year one of the outstanding developments in the field of Aboriginal affairs, the one that has perhaps drawn more public notice and comment than any other issue in Aboriginal affairs, was the one-eyed approach of the State Government in Queensland- I stress that it is of the same political colour as the Administration in the Northern Territory- over the matter of land rights. 
I know that there is strong feeling among whites in the Northern Territory that they have rights also. Some white people were born there, and some of their families have been there for generations. They are perfectly entitled to regard that Territory as their own, just as the Aborigines who may have an ancestry going back thousands of years. Let us not go overboard and get the wrong perspective on this issue. I have a transcript from  This Day Tonight  of 31 May tided White Backlash from Katherine NT on Aboriginal Land Rights'. This is the sort of thing about which the Australian Labor Party is concerned. It feels that the Northern Territory Administration, as is the Queensland State Government, is unduly influenced by the white backlash and peculiarly insensitive to the other case that should be balanced against it in any appraisal of administration of the Territory, particularly when looking at self-government. My remarks have relevance not only to the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill but also particularly to the last of the Bills in this debate which, for the first time, has been placed on the Notice Paper, unlike some of the others which honourable members were led to believe would be debated earlier. It is the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978. This Bill is one that gives, we believe, undue constitutional power to the Administrator. It places him virtually in the same position of power as the Governor-General of this nation or the Governor of a State. We do not believe that that it appropriate; we do not believe that he should have the same status. We believe that he should be subject to some more constraints which oblige him to confer with his advisers in the Northern Territory Assembly, to be guided by them and to take their advice. Also, there should still be the opportunity for this House to review matters in which the Administrator may be at odds with the Northern Territory Assembly. For that reason the Opposition will be moving some amendments at the Committee stage which are aimed at taking care of those aspects to which it has objection. 
It is easy to understand why supporters of the Government may not be very sensitive about this constitutional issue. They feel that the Administrator, in the good old Westminster tradition, should have the same sorts of prerogatives as did  Sir John  Kerr. If they are honest and candid with themselves and others I think they will see that  Sir John  Kerr's powers, as he exercised them, are still the basis of considerable controversy in the Australian electorate. They are still of concern around the world. When I was in London privately a couple of years ago it was brought home to me very forcibly that Britain in particular, and other countries in Europe at that stage still had considerable misgivings about what many of them saw as the misuse of constitutional power by the Governor-General. I think there ought to be some provision for spelling out the sorts of conventions that many people believe were breached by the Governor-General on Remembrance Day 1975. He failed to take the advice of his Ministers before making a major constitutional decision. He failed to receive the  Speaker  of the House who was waiting to inform him that the appointed Prime Minister did not any longer hold the confidence of the majority in the House of Representatives. 
There are other aspects about which people feel uneasy and which should be provided for in some of the amendments. In the Committee stage of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill we will also spell out some of our misgivings with regard to the rights of Aboriginals. Let me firstly go back to the transcript of  This Day Tonight  on the white backlash. We see some quite unwarranted misconceptions among the white population. These misconceptions did not arise this week or this year; it is something that has been going on for many years. The misconceptions relate to the rights of Aborigines overriding those of whites. For example, it was stated at the interview that 'land claims now in existence and in the pipeline cover at least 50 per cent of the Territory and Aboriginals are currently negotiating not only for rnining royalties, but in one instance, for 36 per cent of the gross profits as well'. There has never been, and I cannot see that there ever will be, from the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council, the bodies responsible for negotiating land rights for the Northern Territory, a claim for anything like 50 per cent of the Territory. I think the claim is for less than one-eighth of the Territory. 
This surely is not a very big claim when one looks at the fact that one-third of the people are Aborigines and when one look at the fact that nearly all of these claims are for land that is unalienated Crown land. It is not occupied by any white interest other than the Crown itself. Above all, of course, is the argument that the Aboriginal people were in Australia long before the whites. They were given no option over the acquisition of land for the purposes of whites, the white culture and the white economy. The conscience of Australia is now waking up to the fact that we ought to be doing something about the matter. Honourable members on both sides of the House will agree with this concept. I am sure they will agree also that this myth that 50 per cent of the land is being claimed by Aborigines ought to be vigorously exposed and the legitimate claims of the Aboriginal people spelt out in a way in which white people can understand and not feel threatened by it. That has been done in other countries, particularly North America. But certainly authorities there had a bit longer to negotiate and to work it all out. 
There is a need for increasing the intensity of the education by the white population to avoid this backlash. Until this happens in the Northern Territory, I believe that members on both sides of the House would be very concerned if we were to hand over full powers on Aboriginal matters, for example, to Northern Territory people. In the Northern Territory many Aborigines are not on the voting rolls. Very little effort is made to encourage them to be enrolled and to exercise their right to vote. That is something else that ought to be undertaken by the Federal Government as an educational exercise throughout Australia, because that is an Australian responsibility. In a referendum in 1967, over 90 per cent of the people gave the Federal Government reponsibility for Aborigines. But there were only a handful of polling booths in the whole of the country where a majority was not recorded. This includes Queensland, as well as the Northern Territory. In that referendum, the people said that the Federal Government ought to be responsible for Aboriginal affairs and that it ought to exercise its responsibilities. We ought to be doing so increasingly and more vigorously. 
It is true that there was a claim, in one instance, for 36 per cent of gross profits of uranium mining carried out on Aboriginal land to be paid to Aborigines. It is also true that the Aborigines have no right to enforce such a payment. That will be determined by other than Aborigines. It is almost certain that the Aborigines will not get that 36 per cent. So let us not get too uptight. Let us reassure those people who are too uptight such as those white people who met in Katherine that there is no way in which the Aboriginal people will be entitled to say that they will take 36 per cent of the gross profits of any mining venture, whether or not it is on Aboriginal land. One of the people interviewed at Katherine was asked what was the problem as he or she understood it. He or she volunteered his or her suggestion: 
Well they are trying to son out that black fella problem I s 'pose. When they get the lazy so and so 's to work, instead of letting 'em sit on the bloody best pieces of country. 
Here again we see this distorted view that the Aborigines have the best pieces of the country. The Aborigines have been driven off those pieces of the country that white men wanted. In fact, when it suited some of those white settlers, squatters, developers or miners, the Aborigines were not only driven off, they were put to death. In some cases they were massacred. So let us kill that he right now about the ' bloody best pieces of the country'. The only 'bloody best pieces of the country' are those that have been made bloody by the shedding of black blood by whites. 
Somebody else was asked what was his or her feeling about the subject and why they were here. The reply was: 
For our rights. 
They were asked: ' What rights? ' The reply was: 
For everybody here. 
They were asked what rights were being denied them. The reply was: 
Oh well, the  blackfellas  here. They won't work. 
In other words, they were saying: 'It is our right as white Territorians to get rid of the blackfellas or to make them work. The lazy so and so's. Put them to work'. Honourable members know that there is a percentage, however small- in fact it is shamefully small; around 30 per cent in many parts of Australia- of Aborigines who are employed. Up  to  70 per cent- for the whole  of  the Territory it is probably well over 60 per cent- are unemployed. But it means that 30 per cent are employed. Now, if that 30 per cent are employed in a time of record unemployment, it will take much to convince me that the 30 per cent or more who -are employed are lazy so and so's or that they will not work. They obviously want work. Many of those who are not in work also want work. However, there are several things standing in the way of their getting work. Many of them do not have the training or the understanding required for certain jobs. Certainly many of them do not have the motivation. 
I do not know that those who lack motivation are any more deserving of the term 'lazy' than the whites who are not in work and who have been termed 'dole bludgers', a term which was invented by the Premier of Queensland and which has attained wide currency. It seems from the results of the last Federal election that the people who said that the issue most concerning them was unemployment were in fact more concerned about 'dole bludgers' than providing jobs. Nevertheless, Australia 's record of near  fuD  unemployment shows that most of the people now receiving unemployment relief do not want it; they want jobs. This applies also to most Aborigines. Most of them do not have the facility or the capacity to become employable. It is not really very surprising that a high percentage of them lack motivation when whites who have persistently been denied any work since they left school are fast losing motivation too. But people can be motivated. There is a very high incidence of alcoholism amongst Aborigines, but it is found in those who are unemployed and the depressed people who do not have this work facility. It has been shown time and again that when they are given work in which they are interested, for which they feel an incentive, a sense of achievement, in which they can be proud, and for which they are given due respect and obtain a fair return, they respond accordingly. A very high percentage of them give up drink and lose their alcohol problems far more easily than the whites because they have bridged a bigger gap in becoming employable. 
I do not have time to enlarge on the white backlash, but I stress that we want selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. We understand the fears of white Territorians as regards what they see as undue attention to the needs of blacks. We realise that whites, too, have been deprived and neglected in many ways. We hope that self-government for the Northern Territory, to the degree in which it will receive selfgovernment, will help those people. At the same time, we are concerned about the black minority. 
In the Committee stage I shall remark on some of the other Bills, particularly the Ashmore and Cartier Islands Acceptance Amendment Bill. I believe there has not been adequate consultation with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on this legislation as to what will happen to funding and what its rights will be. In conclusion,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn until a plebiscite has shown that voters of the Northern Territory approve the financial and constitutional provisions due to take effect on 1 July 1 978 '. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
On behalf of the Opposition, with the concurrence of the Committee I move: 
In clause 7 (2) (a), after 'law' insert 'for a specified period, for the purpose of receiving advice from the Council relating to the purposes, objects or validity of the proposed law'. 
In clause 7, omit sub-paragraph (2)(b)(ii). 
In clause 8, omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
As soon as practicable after the Governor-General has made a declaration in respect of a proposed law in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ), the Minister shall cause a notice of the declaration to be laid before each House of the Parliament, and either House may, by resolution passed before the expiration of 15 sitting days of that House after the notice is so laid, disallow the declaration. (4a) Where either House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (4) disallowing a declaration made by the Governor-General, the disallowance shall have the following effect: 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral assents to the proposed law- that the Governor-General 's assent shall be deemed not to have been given; 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral withholds assent to the proposed lawthat the Governor-General's assent shall be deemed to have been given; or 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral withholds assent to part of the proposed law and assents to the remainder of the proposed law- that the Governor-General's assent to the remainder of the proposed law be deemed not to have been given. (4b) If, after the expiration of the 15 sitting days referred to in sub-section (4), neither House of the Parliament has passed a resolution disallowing the declaration, the Administrator shall cause a notice of the declaration to be published in the  Government Gazette  of the Territory.'. 
In clause 9, after sub-clause (3) insert the following subclauses: (3a) As soon as practicable after the GovernorGeneral has disallowed a law or part of a law under this section, the Minister shall cause a notice of the disallowance made by the Governor-General to be laid before each House of the Parliament, and either House may, by resolution passed before the expiration of 15 sitting days of that House after the notice is so laid, disallow that disallowance. (3B)  Where either House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with subsection (3a)  disallowing a disallowance of a law or part of a law made by the Governor-General, the secondmentioned disallowance shall be deemed not to have been made. (3c) If, after the expiration of the 15 sitting days referred to in sub-section (3a), neither House of the Parliament has passed a resolution disallowing the disallowance made by the Governor-General, the Minister shall cause a notice of the disallowance made by the Governor-General to be published in the  Government Gazette  of the Territory'. 
In clause 13 (5),omit'one-fifth',substitute'one-tenth'. 
In clause 22, at the end of the clause add the following sub-clauses: 
After the general election of members of the Legislative Assembly, the Administrator shall, by notice published in the  Government Gazette  of the Territory, appoint a time, being not later than 30 days after the day appointed for the return of the writs relating to that election, for holding a session of the Legislative Assembly. 
The time appointed for the holding of any session of the Legislative Asembly shall be such that a period of 12 months or more does not intervene between the end of one session and the first sitting of the Assembly in the next session. '. 
In clause 33, after sub-clause (5) insert the following sub-clause: (5a) The Administrator shall convene a meeting of the Council if the Legislative Assembly, by resolution, so requests.'. 
In clause 34, after 'Administrator' insert, 'with the approval of the Legislative Assembly, '. 
In clause 36, omit 'appoint a member of the Legislative Assembly to a Ministerial office, and may,', substitute, 'with the approval of the Legislative Assembly, appoint a member of the Assembly to a Ministerial office, and may, with like approval,'. 
The import of these amendments, as I indicated in the second reading debate, is to take some of the extraordinary sovereign powers away from the Administrator and to spell out some of the requirements that have been established by long convention and custom as the duties that a Governor or a Governor-General should observe and, by implication therefore, that the Administrator should observe, vis-a-vis his advisers. Our first amendment is to clause 7 and seeks to take away from the Administrator the power to withhold assent to a proposed law, except for a specified period, for the purpose of receiving advice from the Executive Council of the Legislative Assembly. Under our amendment, the Administrator would be required to seek advice from his Executive Council regarding the purposes, objects or validity of the proposed law. That, of course, does not take away from this Federal Parliament its rights to legislate in a way that would over-ride legislation of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to which it may object. We think that that reservation of itself should be sufficient without having to hand over to an appointed officer, albeit a man with such an exalted post as Administrator, the sorts of powers that have traditionally resided with the Crown, with the Governor or the Queen's representatives and which by custom and convention have not been exercised in such an absolute way as is spelled out. 
The same applies to the amendment to subparagraph (2)(b)(ii) of clause 7, that is, the withholding of assent by the Administrator to proposed laws in the case of laws other than those referring to Executive powers. Even though we seek to delete the provision that the Administrator may withhold assent to the law, we are still allowing that he may reserve the proposed law for the Governor-General's pleasure. The remainder of that clause provides that the Governor-General may intervene if he is advised that the Executive of this Parliament believes that the proposed law should not be assented to. 
Our next amendment relates to clause 8. It deals with the situation where the Administrator has reserved a proposed law for the GovernorGeneral's pleasure. It provides for the procedure to be undertaken by the Governor-General when he assents, or withholds assent, or assents to part of the proposed law and withholds assent from the remainder. As it stands, this would allow the Governor-General, without any restraint or any scrutiny by this Parliament to agree to the decision of the Legislative Assembly, to agree with the Administrator, or to disagree with either of them. We believe it is reasonable that before he exercises that sovereign power, the legislation should be laid before this Parliament, according to the normal practice for ordinances, regulations and so on, as a further check against the exercise of arbitrary power. It is really to safeguard the rights of the Assembly so that it has a channel of appeal to this Parliament. 
It is on a leash already. Legislation of this Parliament can override that of the Legislative Assembly in any case. This amendment is to give it a way out when the Governor-General has had a law referred to him by the Administrator. The Governor-General need not have the final say. This Parliament can have the final say. 
The fourth amendment is of similar import. As it stands, clause 9 would allow the GovernorGeneral to disallow any law of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly within six months without any appeal to this Parliament. Any law could be negatived. It could be completely blocked by the Governor-General without recourse to any other opinion. We have already suggested that the Administrator should refer anything he disagrees with to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We believe equally that if the Governor-General intends to override a law of the elected Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory he should have to get the concurrence of this Parliament or at least have his decision laid before the Parliament so that there is another opportunity for the Legislative Assembly to have its law approved through debate in the Houses of Parliament. It should not be left to an executive decision. 
No. This would happen only when the Administrator had referred a law to the Governor-General. Presumably that would occur very rarely. Even though the legislation would lay before the Houses of this Parliament we would not have to debate it. It could lie on the table for IS sitting days but it need not be debated if the Houses of this Parliament did not wish to do so. It is a safegaurd to be available if requested. The fifth amendment refers to the quota of voters, in deciding electoral divisions. Under the law of this Parliament no electorate is allowed to have a margin of 10 per cent above or below the numbers established by quota. That is, the average number of voters per Federal electorate cannot exceed or fall short of the margin of 10 per cent. The law for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for some unexplained reason has allowed a variation of onefifth either way. There could be 120 voters in one electorate for every 80 voters in another electorate, or 150 voters in one electorate for every 100 in another electorate. We believe that this provision is regressive. It should be brought into line with Federal Parliament provisions for a variation of one-tenth or less either way. 
I understand the interjection from the Country Party member. He believes that we should represent acres, not people. We believe in one vote, one value, as do most democratic parliaments in the world. The seventh amendment refers to a requirement on the Administrator to convene a meeting of the Council if the Legislative Assembly, by resolution, so requests. As the Bill stands the Administrator has the absolute authority to call a meeting of the Council. The Council cannot meet without his calling it together. I believe that he is being given even more power than is given to the GovernorGeneral. This amendment is a reasonable limit on that power. The eighth amendment refers to clause 34. It provides that the Administrator cannot decide on the number of Ministers or their functions without the approval of the Legislative Assembly. Again, this is spelling out a power which traditionally resides in the Prime Minister. He normally requests the Governor-General to appoint other Ministers. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has ignored my answer to his interjection which had the same import as his speech. It is true that there could be a long interval between the laying before this Parliament of a decision by the Governor-General and the lapse of 15 sitting days of the Parliament. There could be a three months delay in the GovernorGeneral's decision being determined. Let me point out that this Bill provides for a six months delay before the Governor-General can make up his mind. If a law is referred to his pleasure by the Administrator he has six months in which to make up his mind whether he will assent to it. 
It says that here. I am sorry; it is even without the Administrator making a referral. When the Administrator has given assent to a proposed law the Governor-General may, within six months, recommend to him any amendments. He can disallow that law, or part of it, for a six-month period. 
He need not within six months give any indication of his opposition to a law. The law can be completely revoked within a six-month period after the Northern Territory has, ostensibly, passed it, and even brought it into effect. 
-Of course it could. 
At least it is leaving open the possibility that this Parliament might just agree with the Northern Territory Assembly. I am sure that they would rather wait nine months and get the law through than wait six months and not get it through. So it is not a derogation of powers from the Assembly; it is a derogation of powers from the Governor-General. 
The eighth amendment relates to clause 34 and, again, is designed to take away a power, which is spelt out, that the Administrator may, in effect, appoint and sack Ministers. In practice, of course, this happens: It is convention and custom that Governors-General and Governors appoint and dismiss ministries, but they do not usually go into that amount of detail- that they can appoint a Minister to a particular portfolio and remove him. That is normally done on the recommendation of the Executive and normally is limited to the appointment of a Prime Minister or Premier who enjoys the confidence of the majority party in the main legislative chamber. This would spell out powers whereby the Administrator could actually dictate the structure of the Ministry, and appoint and dismiss particular Ministers. We believe that should be done only with the consent of the Assembly. The ninth amendment is related to clause 36, and is of the same import. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Has his Department evicted auxiliaries of the Institute of Cultural Affairs from Oombulgurri without consulting the Aboriginal Council? Has any agent, officer or associate of a State government suggested that such action or any similar action should be taken with regard to representatives of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies at Aurukun? If so, will the Minister make the terms of such requests available to the relevant Aboriginal Council without delay? Will he promptly inform the House of disagreements between the Aurukun or Mornington Island councils with State authorities as to the access of individuals or organisations to their leasehold land? 
-by leave- I move: 
. After clause 4, insert the following new clause: '4A. Sections 12B and 12c of the Principal Act are repealed.'. 
After clause 7, insert the following new clauses: '7a. Section 23e of the Principal Act is repealed. ' 7b. Section 42 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: '(2) If a Proclamation referred to in paragraph 40 ( 1 ) (b) or 4 1 ( 1 ) (b) is not laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the making of the Proclamation, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect, as if the Proclamation had not been made. '(3) If either House of the Parliament, in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given, within 1 S sitting days after a copy of a Proclamation has been laid before that House, passes a resolution disallowing the Proclamation, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect, as if the Proclamation had not been made. '(4) If, at the expiration of 15 sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow a proclamation has been given in a House of the Parliament, being notice given within 15 sitting days after a copy of the Proclamation has been laid before that House- 
the Proclamation has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, this Act has effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect, as if the Proclamation had not been made. '(5) If, before the expiration of 15 sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow a Proclamation has been given in a House of the Parliament- 
that House is dissolved or, being the House of Representatives, expires or the Parliament is prorogued; and 
at the time of the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case may be- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; and 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, the copy of the Proclamation shall, for the purposes of sub-sections (3) and (4), be deemed to have been laid before that House on the first sitting day of that House after the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case may be. '. 
It will be noted that these amendments are, in intent and import, identical with those which we moved to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1978. They refer, in particular, to the matter of secrecy and the matter of proclamations being laid before the House. I do not want to enlarge on the remarks I made at the time of the first amending Bill this year, other than to say that it is consistent with Labor Party policy from before 1975 when we introduced land rights legislation and it is consistent with the stand that we took in 1 976 when the principal Act was carried. We ask the Minister to look carefully at our amendments and their intent to establish that what we are concerned about is a matter of priorities. 
We will concede that there are rights for mining and minerals and that Australia has an urgent need for them. I do not know that I greatly disagree with a number of points that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made in 1975 when he was speaking on such matters. He said, for example, that he was opposed to certain mineral legislation of the then Whitlam Government because, in his view, it was discouraging mining and mining exploration. He is entitled to that view. It was not shared, of course, by the Labor Party at that time. At page 1302 of  Hansard  for 1 1 September 1975 he is reported as saying: 
Some of the things at which we will be looking are: The need to restructure the mineral industry's concession and taxation framework to allow established mines to survive and expand and new ones to break in . . . We see as a matter of high priority the definition of Australia 's mineral and energy resources . . . We see an urgent need to restore Federal-State co-operation. We see an urgent need to establish new levels of consultation between industry and government. 
We can accept those particular sentiments as legitimate, but we just wonder whether they reflect the priorities of the Government in Aboriginal affairs and whether mineral development and State rights are being allowed to ease out Aboriginal rights. The Minister, when speaking on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, said on 12 December 1973, as reported in  Hansard  for that day: 
Is the right to explore for minerals pursuant to this law a law in respect of mining or is it a law in respect of trade and commerce between the States, in a Territory or between a State and a Territory, or is it a law with respect to overseas trade? I . . . suggest that it does not have any constitutional validity. 
He was showing again his concern for State rights with regard to minerals. We have felt uneasy, as I believe people at Aurukun and other places have felt uneasy, that this concern in some way may have weakened his resolve in approaching States on matters of Aboriginal rights and his part in framing legislation for land rights in the Northern Territory. I could go on quoting because the Minister spoke on many occasions on that subject before he became Minister. We are concerned to have his assurance that the Opposition 's amendments, which we bring forward for the second time this year, will receive due consideration and that the sentiments reflected therein will be given due weight when Aboriginal rights vis-a-vis mineral rights are considered. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I seek leave to move together amendments 1 to 19 circulated in my name. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
1 ) After clause 2 insert the following new clause: '2a. Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting", but does not include land in a town" from the definition of "alienated Crown land ' '; 
by omitting ", and includes any area that, by virtue of regulations in force under that law, is to be treated as a town" from the definition of "town "; 
by omitting ", but does not include land in a town " from the definition of "unalienated Crown land"; and 
by omitting sub-section (4) and substituting the following sub-section: "(4) A reference in this Act to the granting of a mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall be read as including a reference to the renewal of a mining interest. ". '. 
) After clause 2 insert the following new clause: '2b. Section 10 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section ( 3 ). '. 
) After clause 2 insert the following new clause: '2c. Section 13 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-paragraph (2) (b) (iii) "and after giving permanent consideration to the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owners "after "matter".' 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: '3a. After section 20 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "20A.(l)Where- 
no person (other than the Crown) has an estate or interest in an area of Crown land; 
the Minister is satisfied that the land should be granted to an Aboriginal Council in the area of which the land is situated to be held and applied by the Council for a particular purpose or purposes, being a purpose or purposes within the scope of the function of the Council; and 
the Aboriginal Council agrees to hold and apply the land for that purpose or those purposes, the Minister may recommend to the Governor-General that a grant of an estate in fee simple, or some lesser estate, in the land be made to the Aboriginal Council. "(2) Where a grant of land is made in accordance with a recommendation under sub-section (1), the Minister shall, by notice published in the  Gazette,  set out the purpose or purposes for which the land is to be held and applied and may, from time to time, with the consent of the Aboriginal Council, by notice published in the  Gazette,  vary or add to that purpose or those purposes. "(3) Where a grant of land is made to an Aboriginal Council in accordance with a recommendation under subsection ( 1 ), section 19 applies in relation to the Council in respect of that land as if the Council were a Land Trust. "(4) Where the Minister is satisfied that land granted to an Aboriginal Council in accordance with a recommendation under sub-section ( 1 ) is not being applied in accordance with the statement of purpose or purposes published with respect to that land under sub-section (2), the Minister may recommend to the Governor-General that the grant of the land be revoked. "(5) On the receipt of a recommendation under subsection (4), the Governor-General may revoke the grant of the land to which the recommendation relates and, upon publication in the  Gazette  of a notice of that revocation, that land shall revert to the Crown. "(6) Where land reverts to the Crown under sub-section 
, compensation is payable by the Commonwealth to the owner of any estate or interest in the land granted by the Aboriginal Council and subsisting immediately before the reversion of the land to the Crown for the loss to that owner of that estate or interest, but compensation is not otherwise payable in respect of that reversion. "(7) Where the grant revoked under sub-section (5) has been entered in the register kept under the law of the Northern Territory relating to the transfer of land, the Registrar-General or other appropriate officer under that law shall, on the publication of notice of the revocation in the  Gazette  alter that register accordingly. '. ' '. 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: "3B. Section 23 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "23. ( I ) The functions of a Land Council are- 
to administer Aboriginal Land in its area that is held by Land Trusts; 
where the Land Council holds in escrow a deed of grant of land made to a Land Trust under section 12- 
to negotiate with persons having estates or interests in that land with a view to the acquisition of those estates or interests by the Land Trust; and 
until those estates or interests have been so acquired, to negotiate with those persons with a view to the use by Aboriginals of the land in such manner as may be agreed between the Land Council and those persons; 
to negotiate, on behalf of traditional Aboriginal owners of land in its area held by a Land Trust, being those owners as shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24, and any other Aboriginals interested in the land, with persons desiring to use, occupy or obtain an interest in that land; 
to investigate, and to make representations concerning- 
the requirements for land of Aboriginals living in its area; 
the use, whether by means of the acquisition of an interest or otherwise, by Aboriginals of Crown land in its area in which no person (other than the Crown) has an estate or interest; and 
priorities in the expenditure of public moneys in connexion with the acquisition or development of land in its area for the benefit of Aboriginals; 
e ) to compile and keep- 
a register recording the names of the members of the Land Council; and 
a register recording the names of the members of the Land Trusts holding, or established to hold, Aboriginal land in its area and descriptions of each area of such Aboriginal land; 
to co-operate with, and assist, the Commissioner in exercising his functions and powers in connexion with land in its area; 
to issue, and revoke, permits to persons, other than Aboriginals, entitling them to enter and remain on Aboriginal land in its area and to impose conditions to be complied with by holders of permits so issued; and 
to supervise, and provide administrative assistance for, Land Trusts holding or established to hold, Aboriginal land in its area. "(2) In carrying out its functions with respect to any Aboriginal land in its area, a Land Council shall have regard to the interests of, and where practicable, shall consult with, the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land as shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24 and any other Aboriginals interested in the land and, in particular, shall not give a direction under section 27 to a Land Trust with respect to any matter in connexion with land held by that Land Trust unless the Land Council is satisfied that- 
the person (if any) shown in the Register maintained by the Council under section 24 as the traditional Aboriginal owners of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed direction and do not oppose it; and 
any Aboriginal community or group that may be affected by the proposed direction has been consulted and has had adequate opportunity to express its view to the Land Council. "(3) Where a Land Council issues or revokes a permit to enter and remain on Aboriginal land in the area of an Aboriginal Council, the Land Council shall notify the Aboriginal Council, in writing of- 
) where a permit is issued: 
the fact that a permit has been issued with respect to land in the area of the Aboriginal Council; 
the particulars of the person to whom the permit is issued; and 
the conditions (if any) to be complied with by the holder of the permit; or 
where a permit is revoked- 
the fact that a permit with respect to land in the area of the Aboriginal Council has been revoked; and 
the particulars of. the person who was the holder of the permit. ' '. '. 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: '3C. Section 40 of the Principal Act is. repealed and the following section substituted: "40. A mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall not be granted unless- 
both the Minister and the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated have consented, in writing, to the making of the grant; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires that the grant be made and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42. ". '. 
7 ) After clause 3 insert the following new clause: '3d. Section 41 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "41. The  Atomic Energy Act  1953 or any other Act authorising the mining for minerals does not apply in relation to land that is Aboriginal land so as to authorise the entry or remaining of a person on the land or the doing of any act by a person on the land unless- 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that both the Minister and the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated have consented to the application of that Act in relation to entry on that land; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires the application of that Act in relation to entry on that land and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42. ". '. 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: 
*3e. Section 42 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (3 ) the following sub-section: "(3a) If notice of a motion to disapprove of a declaration in a Proclamation that has been laid before either House of the Parliament under sub-section ( 1 ) is given in that House within 1 5 sitting days after the copy of the Proclamation has been laid before that House and on the last day on which the resolution could have been passed- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, that House shall be deemed to have passed, on that day, a resolution disapproving of the declaration in the Proclamation.".'. 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: '3f. Section 45 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following subsections: "(1) Where the Minister is satisfied that a Land Council has refused, or is unwilling to give its consent to the grant of a mining interest by reason that the applicant for the grant will not enter into an agreement proposed by the Land Council as consideration for the giving of the grant, he shall require production to him of a copy of a statement in writing by the applicant for the grant and an acknowledgement in writing signed by not less than one half of the members of the Land Council that they have seen and understood the proposals contained in the statement in writing. "(1a) If the Minister considers the proposals contained in the statement in writing referred to in subsection ( 1 ) by the applicant for the grant to be just and equitable in the circumstances, after consultation with the Land Council and the applicant for the grant, the Minister may appoint a person who he considers to be in a position to deal with the matter impartially to be an Arbitrator to determine in accordance with the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territory with respect to Arbitration, the terms and conditions of the agreement that, in the opinion of the Arbitrator, should be acceptable to the Land Council and to the applicant as consideration for the giving by the Land Council of its consent to the grant. "( IB) The written statement referred to in sub-section (1) shall set out- 
the amount of payments which the applicant for the grant is prepared to make for the Land Council on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land- 
in consideration of the right to enter upon the land to explore and prospect for minerals; and 
by way of royalties in respect of minerals, if any, extracted from the land; 
the amount and nature of any other interest or benefit which is proposed to be granted to, or to any person or Land Council on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land; 
the type of employment proposed to be available for Aborigines in connexion with the activities which the applicant for the grant proposes to carry out upon the land; 
the manner in which the applicant for the grant proposes to preserve and protect any site or object upon the land which is of significance to the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land; 
the nature of each type of activity which the applicant for the grant proposes to carry out upon the land, and the order in which such activities are proposed to be carried out; 
the manner in which the applicant for the grant proposes to consult with the Land Council and the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land in respect of activities carried out by him or by others on his behalf upon or in respect of the land; and 
such other matters as the Minister may require. ". '. 
After clause 3 insert the following new clause: '3G. Section 50 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "50.(1) The functions of the Commissioner are- 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the needs of Aboriginals, whether as individuals or communities, for land in the Northern Territory to be used for residential, employment or other purposes; 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the availability of land to satisfy the needs referred to in paragraph (a); 
to prepare for the consideration of the Minister plans for the acquisition and development of land in the Northern Territory by, or for the benefit of, Aboriginals and financial estimates of the cost of carrying out such plans; 
to advise the Minister in connexion with- 
the making of recommendations for the grant ing of land under section 1 1 or 20a: 
the resumption of Crown land held under a lease that is required for Aboriginal community purposes; 
the reservation by planning authorities of land for Aboriginal community purposes in towns; 
the revocation of a grant of land made to an Aboriginal Council under section 20a; and 
any other matter relevant to the operation of this Act that is referred to the Commissioner by the Minister; 
on an application being made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of land, being Crown land, to inquire into, and to report to the Minister on the desirability of securing that land for the use of those traditional owners; and 
to compile and keep maps and other records concerning traditional Aboriginal owners of land, other than Aboriginal land, in the Northern Territory. '(2) In carrying out his functions the Commissioner shall have regard to the following principles- 
Aboriginals who by choice are living at a place on the traditional country of the tribe or linguistic group to which they belong but do not have a right or entitlement to live at that place ought, where practicable, to be able to acquire secure occupancy of that place; and 
Aboriginals who are not living at a place on the traditional country of the tribe or linguistic group to which they belong but desire to live at such a place ought, where practicable, to be able to acquire secure occupancy of such a place. '. ". 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: "4a. After section 67 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: '67a. (1) An Aboriginal is entitled, with respect to land contained within a lease for pastoral purposes granted under a law of the Northern Territoryfa) to enter and remain on that land; 
to bring on to, and use on, the land, horses for the transport of persons or goods; 
to take and use the natural waters of the land; and 
subject to sub-section (2), to kill wildlife for food on the land. "(2) Where regulations under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 that are expressed to be made for the purposes of the protection or conservation of an endangered species of wildlife prohibit the killing of members of that species on land to which the regulations apply, an Aboriginal is not entitled, under sub-section (1), to kill members of that species on that land. '(3) Where there are no convenient natural waters on land referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), an Aboriginal is entitled to use bore waters on the land for drinking, cooking, washing or watering horses. ' ( 4 ) In exercising his rights under sub-section ( 3 ), an Aboriginal is not entitled knowingly to disregard any reasonable requirements of the lessee of the pastoral lease in connexion with the bore waters on the land. "(5) Sub-sections (1), (3) and (4) do not apply at any point within a distance of one kilometre from any homestead on the land. "(6) A person who, without just cause, proof of which lies upon the person, prevents or obstructs, or attempts to prevent or obstruct, an Aboriginal from exercising his rights under this section is guilty of an offence against this section punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $ 1 ,000. ". '. 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: ' 4b. After section 68 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted '68a. (1) Regulations under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975 providing for the protection or conservation of, or making other provision with respect to, wildlife, whether those regulations were made before or after the commencement of this Act, do not apply in relation to an area of Aboriginal land unless- 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the application of those regulations to that area of land has been consented to by a Committee for that area established under this section; or 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires the application of those regulations to that area of land and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42. '(2) For the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) (a), the Minister shall, on the application of the Minister administering the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1 975, establish a Committee for an area of Aboriginal land. '(3) A Committee shall consist of- 
a Chairman appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Minister administering the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975; 
such number of members, not being less than 3, as the Minister determines appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Land Council for the area in which the Aboriginal land concerned is situated; and 
a number of members equal to the number determined by the Minister under paragraph (b) appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. '(4) The  Chairman  shall convene a meeting of a Committee for the purpose of considering the giving of a consent to a proposal to apply, in relation to the area of Aboriginal land for which the Committee is established, regulations made, or proposed to be made, under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975 providing for the protection and conservation of, or making other provision with respect to wildlife. '(5) The  Chairman  shall preside at a meeting convened under sub-section (4). ' ( 6 ) The consent of a Committee for the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) ( a) shall be given by resolution passed at a meeting of the Committee by a number of votes greater than the number determined by the Minister for the purposes of paragraph (3) (b). '(7) Where a resolution referred to in sub-section (6) is moved, the  Chairman  shall endeavour to reconcile any conflicts of opinion among the other members of the Committee but the  Chairman  shall not vote on that unless the voting of the other members is equal and, in that event, the  Chairman  has a casting vote. '(8) The  Chairman  shall, on the request of a member of a Committee who is an Aboriginal, arrange for the translation of the proceedings of the committee as they occur into the language of that member. '(9) Subject to any direction of the  Chairman,  a member of a Committee who is an Aboriginal may be accompanied to a meeting of the Committee by such advisers as he may wish to accompany him. '(10) In this section-  'Chairman',  means the  Chairman  of a Committee; 'Committee', means a Committee established under sub-section (2). '(11) Where an area of land becomes Aboriginal land, regulations in force under the  National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act  1975 providing for the protection or conservation of, or making other provision with respect to, wildlife, that were applicable to that area immediately before it became Aboriginal land continue, notwithstanding sub-section ( 1 ), to be applicable to that area but cease to apply to that area at the expiration of the period of 12 months commencing on the day on which that area became Aboriginal land unless, before that time- 
a ) the regulations are repealed; or 
the requirements of sub-section (1) are complied with in relation to the regulations. '. '. 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: '4c. Section 69 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "69. (1) A person shall not desecrate land in the Northern Territory that is a site of significance according to Aboriginal tradition. 
Penalty: $1,000. "(2) Without limiting the generality of sub-section ( 1 ), a person shall be deemed to have desecrated a site if, on or near the site, he knowingly does an act, or causes damage, of such a nature that the doing of the act or the causing of the damage, as the case may be, would, if witnessed by Aboriginals to whom the site is significant, be offensive to them by reason of the Aboriginal tradition in respect of that site. "(3) It is a defence to a charge under sub-section ( 1 ) if the person charged proves- 
that the doing of the act, or the causing of the damage, as set out in the charge was accidental; 
where the site was not on Aboriginal land- that the person charged had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that the site was of significance according to Aboriginal tradition; or 
where the site was on Aboriginal land- that: 
the person charged was lawfully on the land and sought the services of a guide from the Land Council for the area in which the site was situated; and 
a guide was not provided within a reasonable time or the guide provided failed to identify the site as one of significance according to Aboriginal tradition.  "(4)  The regulations may declare areas of land in the 
Northern Territory to be sites of significance according to Aboriginal tradition for the purposes of this section. "(5 ) In proceedings for an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to an area declared under sub-section 
(4)- 
the declaration is conclusive proof that the area to which it relates is a site of significance according to Aboriginal tradition; and 
the defences set out in paragraphs (3) (b) and (c) do not apply. "(6) This section does not apply in relation to an act done in relation to land if- 
the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated has given consent in writing to that act; or 
that act is done in the course of, or in connexion with, mining operations authorised by a law of the Northern Territory or by the  Atomic Energy Act  1 953 or any other Act authorising mining for minerals and the Minister has authorised, in writing, the doing of that act. "(7) A Land Council may agree with an applicant for a consent referred to in paragraph (6) (a) for the giving of that consent by the Land Council in consideration of the payment to the Land Council by the applicant of an amount specified in the agreement. "(8) The Minister shall not grant an authorisation under paragraph (6) (b) unless he is satisfied that the applicant for the authorisation had sought the consent of the relevant Land Council to the doing of the act to which the proposed authorisation relates and that consent has been refused or has not, within 60 days after application for it was made, been granted, and, in deciding whether to grant or refuse such an authorisation, he shall have regard to- 
the extent of the hardship that the proposed act would cause to the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land concerned if the authorisation were granted; 
the extent of the loss to persons interested in the mining operations concerned if the authorisation were not granted; and 
the extent to which the national interest would be affected by granting or refusing to grant the authorisation.",' 
1  4  ) After clause  4  add the following new clause:  '4d.  Section 70 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "70. ( 1 ) Subject to this section, an Aboriginal is entitled to enter and remain upon Aboriginal land if his presence on that land would not interfere with the use or enjoyment of an estate or interest in the land held by a person, not being a Land Trust or an Aboriginal Council. "(2) Subject to this Act and except as otherwise provided by the regulations, a person other than an Aboriginal shall not enter or remain on Aboriginal land unless he is the holder of a permit, in writing, issued to him by or on behalf of the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated. 
Penalty: $1,000. "(3) Before the making of regulations for the purposes of sub-section (2), the Minister shall consult any Land Council in the area of which is situated any Aboriginal land to which the regulations, if made, would apply and shall, when considering the making of the regulations, take into account any views on the matter expressed by the Land Council.  "(4)  A person who is on Aboriginal land (whether in accordance with a permit or not), other than a person who is on the land in accordance with regulations under sub-section (2) or in accordance with paragraph (5) (a) or is one of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land, may be required to leave that land by a person authorised on that behalf by the Land Council for the area in which the land is situated, and the person on whom such a requirement is made shall comply with the requirement within a reasonable time. 
Penalty: $1,000. "(5) Where a person, other than a Land Trust or an Aboriginal Council, has an estate or interest in Aboriginal land- 
a person is entitled to enter and remain on the land for any purpose that is necessary for the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner; 
a permit shall not be issued to a person under subsection (2) with respect to the land if the presence of the person on the land would interfere with the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner; and 
a permit issued under sub-section (2) with respect to the land shall be expressed to impose on the holder of the permit a condition that he will not interfere with the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner. "(6) The holder of a permit to enter and remain on Aboriginal land shall comply with any condition referred to in paragraph (5) (c) or otherwise imposed on him as such holder by the issuing authority. 
Penalty: $1,000. "(7) In proceedings for an offence against sub-section (2 ) or  (4)  it is a defence if the person charged proves- 
in the case of an offence against sub-section (2)-that- 
his entry or remaining on the land was due to necessity; and 
it was not practicable to apply for the necessary permit; or 
in the case of an offence against sub-section  (4)-  that his remaining on the land was due to circumstances outside his control. "(8) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, the law of the Northern Territory relating to travelling stock on pastoral leases applies to and in relation to Aboriginal land used for pastoral purposes. ". '. 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: '4l. After section 70 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "70a. (1) Subject to this section, where Aboriginal land adjoins the territorial sea, or internal waters of the Commonwealth, appertaining to the Northern Teritory that part of the territorial sea or internal waters so appertaining that is within 2 kilometres of the boundary of the Aboriginal land shall, for the purposes of section 70, be deemed to be part of that Aboriginal land. "(2) This section has effect subject to the obligations of the Commonwealth under international law, including obligations under any agreement between the Commonwealth and another country or countries. "(3) Regulations made for the purposes of subsection 70 (2) may make provision for the exemption from the provisions of that sub-section, in its application by virtue of this section, of persons on board ships included in a prescribed class of ships, either absolutely or subject to conditions. "(4)Where- 
a court convicts a person of an offence against section 70 in its application by virtue of this section; and 
b ) at the time of the offence, the person was on board a boat that was carrying fish, the court may order the forfeiture of that fish or of the proceeds of the sale of that fish. "(5) Any property ordered by a court to be forfeited under sub-section (4) becomes the property of the Commonwealth and shall be dealt with or disposed of in accordance with the directions of the Minister. ' '. '. 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: 
*4f. Section 71 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (2 ). ' 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: '4g. Section 74 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: "74. ( 1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), this Act does not affect the application to Aboriginal land of a law of the Northern Territory to the extent that that law is capable of operating concurrently with this Act. "(2) The regulations may provide for the exclusion or modification of a law of the Northern Territory in its application to Aboriginal Land. ' '. '. 
After clause 4 add the following new clause: '4h. Schedule 1 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after the description of land set out under the heading "Santa Teresa" the following: 
"TANAMI 
All that piece of land in the Northern Territory of Australia containing an area of 37 529 square kilometres more or less: Commencing at the intersection of the meridian of east longitude 130 degrees 28 minutes 53.96 seconds with the parallel of south latitude 21 degrees; thence west for a distance of 16 093 metres; thence north to the parallel of south latitude 19 degrees 51 minutes 16.69 seconds; thence east to a point north of the western corner of Pastoral Lease 594 ( Willowra); thence south to the said western corner; thence southeasterly, southerly, westerly and again southerly by southwestern, western, northern and again western boundaries of the said Pastoral Lease to the southwestern corner of the said Pastoral Lease; thence southerly by the western boundary of Pastoral Lease 634 (Mount 
Barkly) to the southwestern corner of the said Pastoral Lease; thence westerly, northerly and again westerly and southerly by pan of northern, an eastern, again a northern and a western boundary of Pastoral Lease 590 (Mount Denison) to the most western southwestern comer of the said Pastoral Lease; thence westerly by part of the northern boundary of the Yuendumu Aboriginal Reserve as notified in Northern Territory Government Gazette No. 24 of 28 May 1952 to the northwestern corner of the said Reserve; thence northerly, westerly, again northerly and again westerly by an eastern, a northern, across a stock route, again a northern, again an eastern and again a northern boundary of Pastoral Lease 802 (Mount Doreen) to the most northern northwestern corner of the said Pastoral Lease; thence northerly and westerly by part of the eastern boundary and the northern boundary of Pastoral Lease 764 (Chilla Well) to its intersection with the meridian of east longitude 130 degrees 28 minutes 53.96 seconds; thence north to the point of commencement. ' '. '. 
1 9) After clause 4 add the following new clause: ' 4l. Schedule 2 of the Principal Act is repealed. '. 
As indicated during the debate on the second reading of the Bill, these are substantially the amendments that were moved to the principal Act in 1976 and their object is the same as it was then. The Opposition still feels the need, as it did at that time, to establish more definitely and more securely the rights of Aborigines to their traditional land. We believe that the Government has been recreant in not accepting a single one of the suggestions contained in the amendments that were moved at that time. For example, with regard to the matter of definitions, section 3 of the principal Act defines a town as being unalienated Crown land, and I have already referred to that in my speech at the second reading stage. This is a reasonable concession to Aboriginal rights. There is no Godgiven infallibility to those people who put down roads or town plans that they have done it with full prior knowledge and consideration of Aboriginal rights. The Aboriginal right to challenge title to such land ought to be included. We believe that it is wrong that sub-section (4) of section 3 of the principal Act provides: 
A reference in this Act to the granting of a mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land shall be read as not including a reference to the renewal ... of a mining interest . . . 
We believe that the renewal of a mining interest ought to be regarded in the same way as a first grant of a mining interest. We see no reason why the renewal of a lease should be exempted from the same requirement as the original lease. After all when any other kind of lease is renewed, the grounds for it are reviewed and they ought to be reviewed in exactly the same way as the initial grant. 
In the second amendment we have asked for the omission of sub-section (3) of section 10. That sub-section states: 
For the purposes of this section, a lease of land granted under a law of the Northern Territory relating to mining for minerals shall be deemed to be an estate or interest in that land if the lease was granted before the date of commencement of this section or in pursuance of an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth before that date. 
We oppose that section because it simply lays open wider the claim of a mining company to establish its interest before an Aboriginal claim has been heard. In our third amendment we talk of grants of interest in land the subject of a deed in escrow. We believe that it would be a very minor amendment to add to section 13 (2) (a) (iii) the words:  and after giving permanent consideration to the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owners. 
Section 13 (2) (a) (iii) states:  . . . arbitrator appointed by the Minister is satisfied, after hearing both the views of the applicant and the views of the Land Council on the matter, that the hardship that would be occasioned to the applicant by a refusal of his application would be greater than the hardship that would be occasioned to the Aboriginal communities or groups interested in the land by an approval of the application; 
Why does the Government not accept the very reasonable and harmless addition the words proposed? What is wrong with that? Would it not be a little bit of reassurance to the traditional Aboriginal owners that at least their interests would be taken into full consideration? It obliges the Minister in no way at all if he opposes it. He has not said that he opposes it on this occasion but it was opposed by the Government in 1976. In the fourth amendment we have asked for the insertion of a clause regarding the grant of land to an Aboriginal council for a particular purpose to allow the Minister to recommend to the Governor-General such a grant and that it be gazetted. Again this will not take a single power away from the Minister. It makes it possible for him to take the initiative to gazette land for a particular purpose for Aborigines. 
The fifth amendment suggests that section 23 of the principal Act, which defines the functions of a land council, be replaced in a way that will give a little bit more flexibility and initiative to Aboriginal owners. It would spell out that the Aboriginal owners of land in the area held by a land trust would be those owners shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24. The Council ought to be able to investigate and make representations concerning the requirements of land for Aboriginals living in its area; the use, whether by means of the acquisition of an interest or otherwise, by Aboriginals of Crown land in its area in which no person other than the Crown has an estate or interest; and priorities in the expenditure of public moneys in connection with the acquisition or development of land in its area for the benefit of Aboriginals. These are all reasonable functions of a land council. 
I could go through all these amendments. In proposed sub-section (3) of the same section, we believe that a land council should not give a direction under section 23 to a land trust with respect to any matter in connection with the land held by that land trust unless the Land Council is satisfied that the person shown in the register maintained by the Council under section 24 as the traditional Aboriginal owners of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed direction and do not oppose it. We believe that wording is preferable to the wording in the principal Act. We have provided that the Land Council have the right to issue and revoke permits to enter and remain on Aboriginal land. We are inserting that right into clause 3. We believe that it is in line with the spirit and the words of the Minister in referring to Aboriginal land elsewhere. 
The sixth amendment refers to grants of mining interests. We propose to add words to the end of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 40 which reads: 
the Governor-General has, by Proclamation, declared that the national interest requires that the grant be made. 
That is as the section now stands. We propose to add the words:  and that Proclamation has taken effect in accordance with section 42. 
Surely that is a reasonable tightening of the law and it is one that ought to have been put in the original draft. We are proposing in the seventh amendment to repeal section 41 of the principal Act regarding the application of Acts authorising mining on Aboriginal land. The Atomic Energy Act and its application to this question of land rights in the Northern Territory has been debated earlier this year. 
-The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1978 in some respects is a machinery Bill but it has particular significance for the Opposition and for Aboriginal land rights. Members of the Opposition wish to address themselves to several aspects of the Bill and to move several amendments, copies of which I have circulated, and which will be considered at the Committee stage. In substance and in import, they are the amendments which were moved in 1976 before the principal Act was passed. It is true that the purpose of the Bill, as expressed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his second reading speech, is to retain the current rights of mining companies in the Alligator Rivers Region, in regard to access to inprovements that have been constructed, when the land becomes Aboriginal land. Nevertheless, we feel that the occasion is opportune to draw the attention of honourable members once again to those aspects of the Bill about which we feel uneasy, which tend to erode the provisions that were brought forward earlier by the Labor Government and which were stalled and blocked by the then Opposition in this House and in another place. 
The Opposition proposes amendments to the Bill to make it possible for such things as towns and roads to be subject to the same rules as other unalienated Crown land where Aboriginals are laying claim to them. It is true that it would make things much easier for governments, the Aboriginal Land Commissioner and people hearing claims of this kind if they could take away from Aboriginals the right to claim land that is already being used for some other purpose. We do not think that that is an adequate reason for having such provisions included in the definitions of the principal Act. So the Opposition is proposing amendments to take care of that aspect. We are also proposing a number of changes to the functions of a land council. They include changes in the grants made to mining interests, in the application of acts authorising mining on Aboriginal lands, in respect of proclamations to be laid before the Houses of Parliament, in respect of arbitration on agreement sought by a land council, the functions of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, the entitlement of Aboriginals to enter upon pastoral leases, the protection and conservation of wildlife on Aboriginal land, the desecration of Aboriginal land, the territorial seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the traditional right to use or occupation of Aboriginal land, the application of laws of the Northern Territory to Aboriginal land and amendments to the schedules of the principal Act. 
The question of Aboriginal land rights, as has been mentioned in the debate on the Bill which has just been passed, is not something that was dreamed up in recent years or after the days of the Labor Administration in Canberra. The history of the matter goes back to about 1963 and the bark petition that was presented to this Parliament. The Yirrkala people at that time made clear their objections to mining and the significance of land to them. The merit of the claims received some publicity which started to bring home to people such as politicians and journalists what Aboriginal land rights were all about. In May 1970 the Yirrkala people commenced an action in the Northern Territory Supreme Court. The outcome of that action was not one that was likely to endear these people to a Northern Territory administration, although I must say that some of the speeches from the members of the Northern Territory administration recently are more reassuring and more encouraging. They have adopted what could be called a bipartisan approach to what is now the universally accepted claim by the Aboriginal people to their traditional land. Nevertheless, in 1971 the Court, under  Mr Justice  Blackburn, ruled against the Yirrkala people and in favour of the Nabalco company. 
Two years later, with a different parliament in Canberra, the Labor Government made the point that it would take action on Aboriginal land rights, despite the opposition of the conservative parties which had been in power in 1972 and which opposed land rights at that stage, as was mentioned in the debate on the previous Bill. The Labor Government appointed  Mr Justice  Woodward to inquire into the manner in which land rights could be put into effect.  His  second report came before the Federal Government in April 1974. 1 do not know when the new look in the Liberal and National Country Parties came about or where they spelt out their commitment to Aboriginal land rights. But I know that during the period of the Government appointed by  Sir John  Kerr- before the 1975 general election- they committed themselves, as they did to many other things, to certain principles to ensure that traditional Aboriginal owners gained inalienable title to their lands. I must say that this commitment still has not been carried out, although it looks as though it is very close to being carried out with respect to parts of the Borroloola land claim which have been accepted. 
Other commitments were that Aborigines should also determine how their land rights are to be used and that they should have the same rights as any other land owner to determine who enters the land. In some respects that is inadequate as I think Aborigines ought to have more right than other people have to determine who enters their land as Aborigines view their land as being communally owned. I acknowledge that an Englishman's home is his castle and that privately owned land should not be entered even by officers of the law unless by due cause and warrant. Nevertheless, when we are looking at the concept which Aborigines have of land rightsnamely, a communal, traditional and perpetual ownership of land by a group of people- I believe that there is a case for going beyond that provision which was adopted by the parties opposite. I believe that the Aborigines ought to have more than just the same rights as any other landowner to determine who enters their land. 
Another commitment which was made by those parties was that sites significant according to Aboriginal tradition should be preserved and protected. As I mentioned, in 1975 under the Labor Government legislation was introduced but it did not get through the Parliament. In the following year, 1 976, the principal Act which this Bill seeks to amend- the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act- was introduced by the administration of the parties which are now in power. The gamut of powers which have been given to Aboriginal land councils, land trusts, land commissioners and others under this legislation has been debated at length. It was debated not only in 1 976 when we moved a very lengthy list of amendments, which have virtually been reproduced to be moved in respect of this Bill, but also to some extent when the three Bills which amended that Act were debated this year. 
Basically, we in the Opposition are still uneasy about the degree of commitment to Aboriginal land rights which is spelt out in every one of these Bills, as against a commitment to the rights of States and State-like authorities- including the administration which will be responsible for the Northern Territory when it gains selfgovernment on 1 July- and the rights of mining companies. I stressed this before to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He saw fit to relate my remarks to his previous interest in mining in Australia and to find them somehow impertinent or irrelevant to his commitment to Aboriginal land rights. I stress again that I am not impugning his commitment to Aboriginal land rights. I made that clear earlier today. What I am concerned about is the degree of commitment. It is simply a matter of degree. We are not opposed to this Bill. We are not opposed to the principles of the principal Act. We did not oppose that legislation when it passed through the Parliament. What we are concerned about is the erosion here and there of the rights of Aboriginals to their traditional land in favour of commercial development. That erosion is not contained by this Bill. 
Although we do not propose to seek to amend the substance of the provisions of this Bill, we propose to recall the amendments we moved to the principal Act when it was before the Parliament in 1976. We are concerned that Aborigines should be recognised as having prime ownership of and prime claims to their land and the prime right to determine the utilisation of their land. We do not entirely oppose the provision which is made for some compromise when there is socalled overriding national concern or when other people would be caused hardship by giving entire sovereignty over traditional land to the Aboriginal people. There is room for negotiation and for compromise; nevertheless, we do not see that just because plans for a street or a town have been laid down those plans ought to have priority over a traditional claim. We believe that priority ought to be given to what the Aborigines want before plans for streets and towns start to be laid down. We believe that priority ought to be given to consulting Aborigines before a Minister makes a decision or before a commissioner makes a decision. Certainly provision is made in the principal Act and in the amending Bill for such consultation. 
We propose some fairly innocuous amendments here and there to the effect that not only should consultation occur but also should the Minister have regard to the opinions of the Aborigines consulted. Even though this is an innocuous amendment, it was not accepted in 1976. I submit that it is genuine cause for concern that the Government is not really putting Aboriginal land rights first, before appeasing and conceding to what has been apprehended as being public opinion- in fact, it was a public outcry. In the 1967 referendum an overwhelming vote by the people named matters of Aboriginal concern as matters of responsibility for this Federal Government. In passing, I refer to the remark of an honourable member during a previous debate when he claimed that there was no cause for this Federal Government to take action when all was sweetness and light in the Northern Territory and when the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was so enlightened in its legislation. Be it ever so enlightened, the people of Australia have not seen it that way. They have determined at a referendum that matters concerning Aborigines ought to be matters of Federal concern and responsibility. 
In addition, I think that in a mere theoretical approach to this subject one ought to be able to see that a Federal government is more likely to succeed in achieving justice for Aborigines for the very reason of our Federal structure. The mere fact that States are charged with the responsibility by and large to determine mineral development, the mere fact that they are reluctant to concede to other governments, whether they be neighbouring State governments or the Federal Government, any of the rights which might bring them credit or profit- particularly mineral exploration, mineral leases, mineral royalties and the like- and the mere fact that this is a State function traditionally ought to make it clear to members of this House and to the public generally that State governments and State-like authorities are not the appropriate bodies to give priority to Aboriginal land claims. 
The Federal Government is more disposed and more likely to be able to look at matters in the broad and not to be so uptight, so worried or so concerned whether mining rights are preserved or whether mineral development goes ahead. The Federal Government has more resources and can look at Australia as a whole in a way which ought to preclude it from putting those rights before Aboriginal land rights. There are many ways- perhaps small- in which these mining rights are acceded to or conceded to. The writing was on the wall when the Opposition amendments- there are 28 pages in the version which has now been circulated- which were put in 1976 were all turned down. There is no move in this Bill to restore any of them. That gives us cause for concern. We believe it is legitimate cause for concern. We are registering our objection, protest and continuing concern in this matter by moving again these amendments. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
1 ) Has  Mr Yunupingu  visited his office or officers to express the view of the Gunwinggu people and others that his sacking of Messrs Cooke, Bond and Gillespie was a tragedy. 
Under which statutes and in the implementation of which publicly announced policies was the sacking carried out. 
What steps has been taken to acquaint himself with the wishes of the Aboriginal communities involved. 
What steps have been taken to reverse the damage done. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to recommendations made by  Dr Coombs  and the Hiatt Report, that targets be set for percentages of Aboriginal public servants at various levels in his Department and others. 
What percentages of Aboriginals were serving in each level of (a) his Department and (b) the Australian public service, in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available. 
Is he able to supply similar details in respect of State public services. 
What targets were set for each of those 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
What is the estimated cost of (a) the preparation of cassette tapes of his message translated into the Gunwinggu language, (b) the translation of films on uranium and (c) the distribution and replaying of these tapes and films throughout the Northern Territory. 
What are the comparable costs of tapes and films translated into Aboriginal languages for general community use, in projects funded by the Government for teaching (a) manual, domestic or trade skills, (b) literacy or numeracy, (c) hygiene, (d) nutrition and (e) Aboriginal culture, history or language. 
Will equal facilities be provided at public expense for presenting the case of (a) the Opposition, (b) the Northern Land Council, (c) mining interest and /or (d) conservation organisations to those who are to hear the Government's messages. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to widespread condemnation of ( a) Queensland 's totalitarian Acts and administration which restrict the rights, initiatives and opportunities of Aboriginals and Islanders and (b) the current investigation of attitudes to those Acts. 
What steps have been taken by the Commonwealth and each State, to (a) abolish laws which breach international conventions, the Racial Discrimination Act and announced Commonwealth policies, and (b) to implement outside the Northern Territory the Woodward Commission's recommendations on land rights as legislated for the Territory. 
3 ) When were these steps taken. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Did Peter Douglas Channell attempt to buy Glenore Station, south of Normanton, Queensland, on behalf of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. 
Did he assure the Queensland Premier in June 1977 that this would not happen; if so, on what grounds was this assurance possible and for what purpose was it given. 
Will the proposed new role of the Commission deny it the opportunity to buy through agents so as to preserve confidentiality; if so, will this place it at a disadvantage by comparison with major foreign mining interests and  Mr Iwasaki  who hold extensive freehold land and leasing rights in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Is there a hostel for Aboriginals in Townsville under State control which is on average about 90 per cent unoccupied because the management reserves it for persons visiting Townsville for hospital attendance except after occasional strenuous representations. 
Has any housing, medical or other co-operative in Townsville power to provide hostels for short-stay itinerants, people with alcohol problems, children needing foster care or the aged; if so, what stage have their proposals reached and what Government support is available. 
What mobile dental facilities are available for Aboriginal communities in the Townsville region. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Mareeba Shire Council, Queensland, in 1973 destroy substandard Aboriginal homes claiming they were a health hazard without taking effective steps to provide alternatives. 
Did the Shire in February 1977 evict 10 out of 1 S Aboriginal tenants from houses the Council had built in 1973 with Australian Government funds on leased Queensland crown land. 
What active influence has the Australian Government exercised over (a) the land, (b) the lease, (c) the houses and their maintenance, (d) the rentals, (e) householder training and (f) development of an Aboriginal housing society or other self-management project in the area. 
When does the Government expect to establish selfmanagement for the Aboriginal community. 
What have been the causes for delay in enforcing selfmanagement as provided for in the original agreement with the Shire. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) Does a recent statement by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, that indexing the home price of sugar seemed reasonable, reflect the Government's attitude. 
As he assured the House on 23 February 1978 that the Government had not delayed processing the sugar industry's request for an early decision in this matter, and as he assured me in his reply of 10 April 1978 to my letter of 10 March 1978 that delay due to awaiting further information from the industry no longer applied, will he now state when the decision is expected. 
There are, as members on both side of the House have acknowledged, considerable benefits coming forward in the series of Bills we are debating but, of course, as the Minister has conceded, there are areas of concern too. He has even, I would say, conceded certain concern in similar areas to those at which the Labor Party amendment is directed. I want to analyse some of these areas of concern in the light of the stated aims of the amending legislation. It is said to increase competition and innovation and to deter over-use but, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has admitted, there is not enough data collected to establish to what extent this will be achieved by these measures. In fact, in some respects the reverse may occur. The simplest, example, I suppose, is where there is an increase in the so-called deterrent charge, the gap- the amount paid direct out of the patient's pocket when he seeks medical care. We have to look carefully at what this extra charge will deter. On the one hand it may deter over-use; on the other hand, it will certainly deter legitimate use by persons of limited means. This was the principal concern not only when Medibank was introduced but also when the system of national health insurance was launched by  Sir Earle  Page- the very scheme which the Labor Party modified with the introduction of Medibank by making it more universal and more equitable. 
The only figures that I have seen referred to an area in Canada where some of these deterrent charges were applied and removed. Assessments were done before and after by a series of doctors practising within the scheme. They were asked to assess in their view what percentage of under use occurred with the imposition of the deterrent charge in the case of people who ought to be going to a doctor and what percentage of over use occurred when the deterrent charge was removed. The average estimate of those doctors was that where a deterrent charge was applied, something like  2Vi  per cent under usage occurred. People were deferring or delaying the consultation of a doctor when they really needed to see a doctor. When the deterrent charge was removed, the percentage of over use was estimated at 1  lA  per cent. 
Let us weigh what that gains the Government. It has gained a four per cent saving of costs by applying a deterrent charge. However, most of that saving is made in respect of people who ought to be receiving treatment and who feel that they cannot afford it or who are trying to save the cost. The long-term costs of this position were not assessed and it is very difficult to assess them. With very little data coming forward now under the modified Medibank- Medibank Mark 2- it will be a lot longer before any data of that kind will be forthcoming so that people can form some assessment whether this deterrent charge really achieves cheaper health care or better health care, or whether it has the reverse effect. The mere acknowledgement by all political parties in this Parliament that the majority of the load of health care costs ought to be carried by the community or ought to be under a scheme of national insurance surely is an acknowledgement that it is far better to run the risk of over use by subsidising the majority of these costs than to run the risk of under use that will occur if they are not subsidised. What percentage of subsidy ought to take place is a matter of judgment and it is the sentiment of the Opposition that the 85 per cent refund of standard fees- not the 75 per cent refund- is far more equitable, far more practicable and, of course, is the only one acceptable to the Australian Medical Association in certain cases. 
I pay a brief tribute to  Dr Sax,  to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the people who work with him, not only in the field of national health insurance but also in the fields in which they first entered the federal scene. The Hospitals and Health Services Commission was not concerned with health insurance but with other functions within the Department of Health. It was my privilege as Minister for Health, after appointing that Commission, to work closely with  Dr Sax  and his colleagues on schemes such as the community health program which has given a new dimension to public health concern and involvement in Australia.  Dr Sax's  ability, expertise and great capacity have been acknowledged by his increasing involvement in the field and he has now been appointed to a completely new policy secretariat dealing with health and welfare.  Dr Sax  left the Republic of South Africa for reasons which will strike a cord of sympathy in many of us. South Africa 's loss is Australia 's gain. 
The subsidy paid in respect of travel and accommodation costs- within 200 kilometres- for people from isolated areas who must travel to see a specialist or to have medical treatment which they cannot receive in their area has been endorsed by the whole Parliament. I pay a tribute again to the Department of Health which, while I was Minister for Health, assisted me to call wide-ranging discussions and conferences on the problems of rural health. The Department produced reports, after I and other Ministers were dismissed from office, on the matters of health transport and rural health. I feel that they contributed greatly to the working out of this formula to assist patients with travel. One belief in the mind of the then Labor Government was that it ought to be doing something along those lines. I commend the present Minister for Health for having done so. Of course, we can all regret that it was not done sooner. 
Of course, many other areas of health care have been left uncovered. In the three short years of Labor Government, although we introduced subsidies in areas that had formerly been neglected such as the provision of artificial limbs, renal dialysis, colostomy appliances, hearing aid batteries for pensioners provided without charge and many other services, we were unable to achieve some objectives. But I think that this proposal represents a further step forward. I do not think that it is the last one that can be taken in this direction. 
I strongly urge the Minister, when he is negotiating with the States, that he point out that this travel arrangement will take substantial loads off State governments. In my State of Queenslandand I have no doubt in other States- provision is made for free travel on State railways and, where there is a strong enough medical indication, by aeroplane for specialist care for patients who cannot receive that care in their local public hospital. The States ought to have it brought home to them that, if the Federal Government is to pick up the tab to the extent that it is in respect of these travel costs, this action will greatly relieve the State treasuries and that some offset expenditure ought to be forthcoming. If not the whole amount that will be saved, at least some of it should be spent in other areas. Not only would the patient who has to travel to receive treatment benefit by perhaps having a wider range of choice of doctor but also the load removed from the State public health system would be acknowledged by the States so that they could provide other services with the money saved. Perhaps that money could be spent on some of those services that the Labor Government was unable to introduce during the three short years of its administration. I refer to matters such as the provision of splints, surgical footwear and other appliances which are available in a very limited way to patients in public hospitals only in the State scene. If the Federal Government is to step in and take over some of these costs from the States, it is good enough for the States to take over some of the costs that have been borne 100 per cent by patients, other than patients in public hospitals. In fact, many of the services are not available even to patients in public hospitals. 
One of the areas of concern that I had when we set up the committee to look at health transport costs was the matter of ambulance transport. I urge the Minister not to delay too long in following up that matter. At the moment, there are two areas of concession only from the Federal Government to the user of an ambulance. They both relate to tax deductions which benefit only the person who is on a high enough income to pay tax. They benefit most those people who have the highest incomes and are taxed the most. There is tax deductibility for outright donations to ambulance services. Contributors to ambulance services receive no credit for that kind of contribution which makes them a member of an ambulance scheme and entitles them to use ambulance services, unless they happen to opt for one of the Medibank extras or one of the optional areas of cover provided by private health funds which are not subsidised by either State or Federal governments. In other words, the only subsidy that is coming from the Federal level in respect of ambulance services is that made by way of tax deduction for voluntary donations. The Queensland Government meets half the cost of ambulance services. It matches on a dollar-for-dollar basis money which is raised privately or from contributors. 
I strongly suggest to the Minister that this is an area which does cause hardship, and not only for the people who use the ambulance services. Some of these people are pensioners who are too proud to ask for time to pay or to ask for some concession in respect of an ambulance charge which is many times the cost of a taxi service. Indeed, in many cases this puts great strain and hardship on ambulance committees which have to raise funds by conducting benefit functions, raffles and so on. I believe that the day has arrived when the Federal Government ought to put its shoulder to the wheel and contribute something towards ambulance services. 
The funding of chemists was taken up during the Whitlam years. We took up the matter of the inequity of the extra payments given to isolated pharmacies. I think I suggested to my advisers at the time- the Minister might well take up this possibility- that there ought to be some sort of points system whereby a chemist is credited for the hours of service he provides- the hours his shop stays open, his availability after hours, the availability of delivery services to people who are unable to come to the pharmacy, or whatever. I realise that it might be difficult to carry that points system to its logical conclusion. 
I think that before very long we will have to ask pharmacies to do some kind of peer review, such as the Minister mentioned with respect to doctors, so that an assessment can be made of the quality of care a chemist is giving, particularly in the area of counselling. If chemists really did what their code of ethics suggest that they should do- in fact in many cases what the statutory provisions state that they should do- I am sure that this would do far more to slash the frightening and dangerous level of drug use and the very costly drug bill of this country than any other single measure. Chemists should make it clear to patients how to use drugs properly, whether prescribed or not. They should explain painstakingly to a patient and make very clear in his mind his responsibility for his health as it relates to his use of drugs, whether prescribed or not. 
As the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  rightly said, hospital costs are the major cause of escalation in health costs. I want to nail the insinuation which was made by many supporters of the Government that a major proportion of the growth of health costs was due to the introduction of Medibank or due to the Labor Government. Certainly the major percentage of escalation occurred during the time of the Labor Government but let us not run away from the reasons for this. Let us look at those costs. One honourable member on the Government benches interjected to claim that the escalation in health costs was due to wage increases. If there was one sector of the Australian community which was underpaid and overworked for more years and more scandalously than any other sector when Labor came to power it was that of the nurses and nurse trainees. We moved swiftly to overcome this. We introduced equal pay for the sexes. These two factors, more than any other, greatly escalated hospital health costs. We make no apology for that. We think it was a legitimate increase in hospital costs. 
There have been other escalations in costs which are still occurring and which will occur increasingly in the future. With new technology we face the rapidly escalating cost of modern medicine. I submit that the main thing which ought to be done about this is not to provide more of the same. We have seen repeatedly in the care of Aborigines, in the care of North American Indians, in the care of groups of people of all ages who are disadvantaged in North America and elsewhere, that the provision of more of the same, when health costs are going through the ceiling due to modern technology, does nothing to improve health. It only improves the incomes of the professionals. 
In the Whitlam years we introduced a measure which was a radical departure from this by promoting the community health program and other programs of its kind, such as the school dental scheme, family planning grants and so on. But basically the concept was that we ought to be funding preventive services, early intervention services, shop front and home care domiciliary services by the sorts of teams which usually are available only after entering the doors of the hospital. Physiotherapists and other types of health aids and professional people ought to be out in the community where the general practitioner is. The general practitioner should not be left on his own with nothing but a telephone and a prescription pad to achieve access to the other resources of health care teams. The community itself is the key factor, not the professionals. There ought to be community health care committees and regional administration should be made the responsibility of the representatives of that community. I believe that unless the Government moves more in that direction and less towards fiddling with systems of payment it will do nothing to stop the escalation of health costs. 
The matter of abortion charges was raised by the honourable member for Murray. He suggested that the Australian Labor Party would not give people free choice in this respect. We do not object to free choice at all. What we object to is a blank cheque. Nothing in the proposal for deductibles which the Minister has announced spells out whether the proposal will refer to abortions, cosmetic surgery, front end deductibles to which the honourable member for Murray objects- or whatever. It is for that reason that we want the proposed removed, not because we have any specific attitude on the matter of abortion. The honourable member for Murray suggested that if we do not provide that free choice the funds will be forced to charge more. That is wrong. Without abortions the costs will rise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr LLOYD (Murray)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1 978: 
1 ) Can he say whether recent Queensland legislation (a) excludes (i) from Aurukun Shire, traditional Aurukun tribal land to the south of the former reserve, and (ii) from Mornington Shire, Bentinck Islands and Sweers Island, thus reflecting the State Government's concern with the phosphate and bauxite industries rather than with Aboriginal sacred land and traditional land ownership, (b) fails to enable Aborigines or the Church to own or set up buildings or business projects within the leased Shires or the Council to acquire property anywhere, (c) fails to define who is to fill vacancies on the Councils, (d) provides administration under a complicated Local Government Act thus ensuring that Aborigines cannot manage their affairs and enables the State Minister for Local Government to appoint an administrator in place of the Councils, (e) provides for an externally appointed committee to assist the State Government in control and management of the communities which are supposedly run by Aboriginal representatives according to published statements, (f) excludes Church representatives from providing services other than religious instruction by persons ordinarily employed by the Church for that purpose and (g) gives the State Minister veto power over Council decisions to advise or exclude persons from their Shires and to appoint the Shire Clerk, who need not be qualified and is to be assisted in financial matters by the appointed committee. 
If so, which of these provisions is acceptable to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) Is the Government committed to give freehold title in perpetuity in traditionally owned land to Aboriginal communities along with a substantial control over and share in mineral exploitation of that land. 
If so, will this eventually entail acquisition of land and some share in mineral rights from the States by the Commonwealth Government. 
Did a meeting of over 150 delegates from Aboriginal communities in the Pilbara region in April 1978 write to the Prime Minister asking for more land ownership and control and retention of the right of West Australian Aboriginals to issue mining exploration permits for their land. 
Did the meeting also complain of the extensive social damage and sparse benefits to Aborigines from mining which has been undertaken without consulting them. 
When will Aboriginal people in Western Australia and Queensland have the same land rights as those in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
Has he made a decision on domestic sugar prices, which he said in his letter to me of 10 April may be expected shortly. 
If not, has the Prime Minister intervened to delay this decision. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What progress has been made with implementation of the recommendations of the workshop on Aboriginal medical services at Albury in 1974. 
What steps have been taken to provide training certificates for Aboriginals as health aides, nursing assistants, public health assistants, clerical administrative assistants. Aboriginal health practitioners or other health team roles. 
What visits or exchanges of staff and students in such training have been arranged with Papua New Guinea or other developing countries. 
How many Aboriginals are involved in sessions on Aboriginal health in medical and nursing schools. 
What funding has been granted for specialist visits to Thursday Island from Cairns. 
What local, regional, State and national assemblies have been set up to collate and develop Aboriginal health policies. 
What (a) Aboriginal controlled and (b) community controlled groups have received Aboriginal health funds from governments for disposal at their discretion, and what evaluation has been made of the results and by whom. 
What integration has occurred between indigenous and western medical practice. 
What funds have been provided for formally recognised training courses in Aboriginal health, which medical schools, nursing colleges and Aboriginal controlled health services have received such funds, and how much has been provided in each case in each of the last 5 years for which data is available. 
Which governments and academic institutions require experience or training at Aboriginal health centres, in what form and for what periods in each case. 
What steps have been taken to reintroduce bush nursing on Cape Barren Island. 
Which local hospital boards include Aboriginals. 
What special arrangements have been made for enrolment of those Aboriginals eligible for subsidised health benefits. 
14) What recommendations have been prepared for him on alcohol problems. 
What Aboriginal social workers from local communities are available at hospitals, and are they supported by others in cases where totem and kinship tabus hinder their direct contact with patients. 
What supervision is given of Aboriginal dental services. 
Which recommendations of the Monash seminar of May 1 972 on Aboriginal health have been implemented. 
What steps have been taken to fund Aboriginals willing to train Aboriginal teams to erect pre-cut homes as a co-operative project. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Did the Whitlam Government accede promptly to the recommendation of the first report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission calling for Land Councils based on Darwin and Alice Springs. 
Was the second report addressed to the GovernorGeneral on 3 May 1 974. 
If so, what progress has been made in implementing the recommendations of the report, and what are the reasons for any delay. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What part has the Government played in the Privy Council case between Aboriginals and the State of Queensland. 
What steps are open to the Government to solve this dispute by purchasing land for Aboriginals. 
What discussions has the Government initiated in this matter. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an interview with  Mr Frank  Purcell, a former legal adviser to the people of Aurukun, in the program  This Day Tonight  on 14 March 1978, when he said that the Queensland Government has prevented the Aboriginal Land Funds Commission from buying land in Queensland; if so, is there any substance in the statement. 
Has he issued any guidelines, instructions or directions to the Commission bearing on this matter; if so, will he table them. 
Has any planned land purchase lapsed or been deferred on account of this involvement. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) Has Palm Island about 2,000 residents in 160 houses designed for half that population or less. 
If so, has this led to sewerage breakdowns, discord, breakages and sickness. 
Are older houses below standards that most local authorities would tolerate; if so, what estimates have been made of construction and maintenance needs, and on what targets have they been based. 
Has a population ceiling been set for the island; if so, (a) what is the ceiling, (b) on what grounds is it based and (c) by what date is it to be achieved. 
Is mainland unemployment accelerating population drift to the island. 
What employment projects are desired by the population, and what help has been offered to implement them during the last S years. 
What Federal assistance is available to provide a school bus service for farm children on Palm Island and what criteria are applied to determine whether this assistance is justified. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What steps has the Government taken to ensure that Aboriginals are paid in accordance with work done and with what effect. 
What visits have been made in the last 3 years to Queensland's Aboriginal settlements by (a) Australian Government authorities, (b) legal advisers to Aboriginals and (c) representatives of employee organisations of which Aboriginals in those settlements are members. 
What records of these visits are kept by or for governments or their agents in each State and Territory. 
What categories of employment require (a) union membership or (b) preference to (i) unionists and (ii) Aboriginals in each State and Territory. 
What steps have governments taken and when were they taken to ensure that Aboriginals understand and concur with powers of attorney given to officials and to ensure equal facility is available to them to withdraw or suspend such powers. 
What steps have been taken and when were they taken to ensure that independent informed advice is promptly available locally to Aboriginals subject to State settlement rules, regulations and discriminatory practices, to remove the effect of such rules, regulations and practices where they contravene Australian law, and to ensure that Aboriginal communities are aware of their options to replace State controls by Federal controls, by setting up federally funded cooperatives and otherwise. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
Does recent Queensland legislation allow Statecontrolled officials and bodies to suspend all State services to Aurukun and Mornington Island communities, to supervise and suspend all their Councils' financial decisions and to replace those Council with administrators despite Federal objections. 
Does delay in implementing the policy of the Australian Government parties to give inalienable title to traditional land owners result from partial recognition of the Queensland Government claim for massive compensation for eventual acquisition of Aboriginal and Islander freehold especially in areas recently de-gazetted as reserves, for example in the Shires of Torres, Cook, Mornington and Aurukun. 
3 ) How do State interests including mineral rights in land acquired by the Federal Government for Aborigines differ from their interests in land acquired in the States for other purposes, such as Shoalwater Bay Training Reserve. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1 978: 
1 ) Will he require the Queensland Government either to 
agree to replacement of one of the State nominees on each of the Advisory Councils for the Shires of Aurukun and Mornington Island by a nominee of the Uniting Church or 
reimburse the Church for legitimate administrative expenses since 3 1 March 1978. 
If not, will he carry out his undertaking to the Shires that should the agreement between the Government bc breached, including the agreement that the Advisory Councils would represent those giving services to Shires, the Federal Government will resume the traditional Aboriginal lands concerned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1978. 
1 ) Will he disclose the substance of communications between himself or his officers and the Queensland authorities, the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists, Professor Hollows, his interpreters, and other organisations or spokespersons, concerning the suspension and resumption of the national trachoma program in Queensland. 
What delay, curtailment and costs were caused by suspension, including (a) pay in lieu of notice, (b) travel costs, (c) unemployment benefits and (d) loss of earnings to (i) the Government, (ii) Professor Hollows and (iii) persons attending for examinations made impossible by the suspension. 
If the Government had referred back the Queensland authorities' complaints for more justification, was greater disruption of the program envisaged. 
What facilities were provided by Queensland to replace the suspended interpreters immediately, and why were these not accepted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Northern Territory hospitals have more than 1 bed in 5 occupied by victims of accidents, poisonings, violence or mental disorders. 
If so, are most of these, and some other diseases requiring hospitalisation, related to alcohol or drug misuse. 
Is the average intake of alcohol by adult male drinkers in the Northern Territory beyond the safe limit. 
Do some Aboriginal communities (a) spend most of their income on liquor, (b) have an incidence of alcoholism equal to half their adult populations and (c) suffer from a wide range of social and other problems directly contributed to by drinking problems. 
Do most Aboriginal communities have no legal or de facto control over the commercial use of alcohol in their respective regions. 
Has the setting up of mining and other whitecontrolled settlements with liquor sales outlets aggravated these problems. 
Will he negotiate with other Ministers concerned with mineral development and Aboriginal affairs and spokesmen of relevant Aboriginal communities, the acquisition of liquor distribution and sale by local public authorities on terms which would prevent leasing of these functions to anyone who would stand to increase profits with any increase of liquor sales in planned new townships which would make liquor more accessible to Aboriginal communities. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article at page 23 of  On DU  for 16 October 1977 on children's television advertising. 
If so, does the article quote evidence that most food and drink commercials on television promote non-nutritious products. 
Will he investigate laws overseas which have provided for equal time to counteract unlawful or misleading advertising and report the results to the Parliament and the public. 
Will he publish guidelines for television advertising directed at children, providing among other things for clear separation of advertising from program material, with no use of characters from children's programs in advertising within or adjacent to such programs, and no use of promotional competitions by comperes of children 's programs. 
Will he consult with his colleagues about the use of violent scenes from adult classified films in commercials, shown during family viewing programs. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to moves by the Government of Western Australia to change the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Act to allow mining in Aboriginal reserves without approval of the State 's Commissioner for Aboriginal Affairs; if so, has the Government made it clear to the Government of Western Australia that Federal legislation will be introduced if necessary to ensure that mining on Aboriginal land will be subject to the same conditions in the States as in the Northern Territory. 
Will he ensure that Aboriginals on the Forrest River reserve are fully informed of their rights and that Land Councils are established in Western Australia and Queensland before Australia approves foreign investment in our exports from Aboriginal land in those States. 
asked the Minister for Abor iginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May: 
1) Is there (a) a deep spiritual and historic significance, (b) an abundance of hunting and fishing resources and (c) a long term potential for economic grazing of the Bing Bong pastoral lease between Borroloola and the offshore islands. not only for traditional owners of these lands but also for periodic ceremonial gatherings of many tribal groups. 
When did (a) his Department first become aware of Aboriginal interest in the leased land, (b) the Borroloola Community's representatives approach the Land Fund Commission requesting acquisition of the lease, (c) Mount Isa Mines or a subsidiary company (i) seek authority from the Foreign Investment Review Board to buy the lease and (ii) notify his Department of plans to purchase, (d) the Board ask his Department for advice on Aboriginal claims in the area, (e) his Department seek information from the Commission about this interest or these claims and (f) the Commission notify his Department of such an interest. 
What steps has the Government taken, and on what dates, (a) to authorise the M.I.M. purchase, (b) to ensure inalienable title to the land for the traditional owners or their community's representatives and (c) to remedy any dereliction by his Department or the Commission. 

 Mr Viner: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware that Aboriginals have indicated interest in the Bing Bong pastoral lease to the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission on the basis of traditional interest and its present and potential social and economic use to them. 
(a) The Aboriginal interest in the area is of long standing and has been known to my Department. 
28 November 1977. 
(d) and (e) Consideration of proposals by the Foreign Investment Review Board is on a strictly confidential basis. 
The Commission, in a paper submitted in January 1978 outlining its program for the 1978-79 financial year, indicated that it was "highly likely" that it would try to purchase Bing Bong Station and /or another named station in the Gulf region. My Department first received information from the Commission of its resolution to attempt to negotiate purchase of the pastoral lease on 1 May 1978. 
(a) See answer to 2 (c) (d) and (e) above. 
Inalienable tide to land may be granted to Aboriginal Trusts under the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act if traditional claims to unalienated Crown land are submitted to, and considered by, the Aboriginal Land Commissioner and if the Commissioner recommends the grant of the land and the Minister is satisfied that the land should be granted. Bing Bong lease is alienated land and no claim has been lodged. My Depanment is in touch with Mount Isa Mines to discuss what might be done to satisfy the aspirations of Aboriginals in relation to land within the Bing Bong lease and other leases near Borrolooa. 
I will take whatever action is appropriate if I conclude that there has been any dereliction by my Depanment or the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Has he replied to a letter of 4 May 1978, from the Western Australian Minister for Community Welfare indicating an intention of the State Government to remove from the Commission under the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act, the final authority to approve Aboriginal reserve entry permits and to confer this authority by regulation on the Minister. 
If so, will he table that reply. 
What discussions has he arranged with the Aboriginal Lands Trust on this matter and with what result. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the Queensland  Hansard  of 17 May last on page 941,  Mr Hartwig  is reported as having said: 
Or Everingham said that we were exporting fresh, chilled and frozen meat to New Zealand. I challenge him to prove that we are exporting one kilogram . . . We are certainly exporting meat products . . . 
My statement was based on information provided to me by the Leader in this Parliament of  Mr Hartwig  's own party. In answer to Question on Notice No. 320 asked on 1 March 1978, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
. the level of imported meat is insignificant when compared to Australia's . . . domestic production. 
He then gave the following figures in kilograms of exports of unprocessed meat to New Zealand for the previous three financial years: Beef, seven; pigmeats, 733,409; sheep meats, 8,242; poultry, 108,506; others, excluding turkeys, kangaroo and rabbit, 19,299; and of this the greatest annual share, 553,805, occurred in the last year listed. 
Four months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  told the National Aboriginal Conference: 
These communities have turned to us. We will not fail them. 
He said that they wanted self-management, they were ready for it and they would get it. The appalling behaviour of the Premier of Queensland in the past week demonstrates that he is interested only in subjecting the two communities to the absolute control of his Government. 
He removed, by the threat of police force, a Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs official and the Aurukun Council's legal adviser from a meeting with that Council last Friday. 
The Government of this country must acquire compulsorily the land at Aurukun and Mornington Island as for months and repeatedly in the last week the people have asked them to do. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  promised such an outcome if the State legislation governing both communities did not measure up. Nobody can doubt that that assessment applies to the present position. That legislation does not measure up. About four months ago the Minister introduced a Bill to indicate the Government's intentions, and in his second reading speech he said: 
This Bill will guarantee the right of . . . communities on Aboriginal and Island reserves in Queensland to manage their own affairs . . . ensuring that, if the communities have chosen not to be administered by . . . the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, they will not have official management foisted upon them. If communities now . . . controlled by government officials consider that they are ready for self-government . . . they may apply to have the legislation cover their reserves. 
He said later in his second reading speech:  . . the establishment of the National Aboriginal Conference expresses the Government's commitment to involving Aboriginals in setting goals and objectives which government should pursue ... in evaluating programs, formulating new programs . . . and help Aboriginal people ... to take full responsibility for decisionmaking in the management of community affairs. 
There is a world-wide trend to allow indigenous peoples to make decisions to take over the management of their affairs at all levels. But on that occasion deliberations and consultations proceeded, and have proceeded since, primarily with the Queensland Government and secondarily with the people on the reserves. Initially, outstandingly and overwhelmingly the concern of the Australian Government has been that we should not rock the boat, that there should not be confrontation with the Queensland Government and that, as the Minister said at Question Time this week, we must not bring in emotional issues. The Government's attitude is that we should sit down and talk rationally. For about 200 years people have been saying: 'Do not get emotional; be rational about the demands of Aboriginal people to determine their own affairs'. The net effect of that has been the continuing decimation of Aborigines and, in latter times, the cultural genocide we see progressing at an accelerating rate, if anything, under the present Administration in Queensland. In the same speech the Minister said: 
In Western Australia ... the legislation provides  . . for the establishment of an Aboriginal land trust . . . 
Despite all the moves of the Western Australian Government to curtail the functions of such a land trust we have seen no definitive action or commitment by this Australian Government to put the interests of the Aboriginal communities ahead of those of the Western Australian Government which for some months has been preparing the erosion of the right of Aboriginals to determine the use of their land in that State. We have seen no sign of any recognition, of, let alone any action to support, the unofficial land council which is active in northern Queensland and which speaks for the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island. Later in his speech the Minister said: 
This Bill is designed to deal with a fundamental aspect of the Queensland legislation: Management of reserve communities by departmental officials. I believe it does this fully and effectively. It meets ... the widespread and increasing desire of Aboriginal and Islander communities for self-management. 
The Bill, does none of those things; it has moved to achieve none of them. The Minister continued: 
The Government will watch the situation in these two reserves closely. If further action is necessary it will be taken . . . 
The Government would expect that good sense and a spirit of goodwill is shown by the Queensland Government . . . 
That expectation has been present from the beginning of time. But it is not borne out by the facts. The actions of the Australian Government do not measure up to its attitudes and policies as expressed and repeated from time to time. We warned the Government. I approached the Minister and offered to discuss the matter with him before it was debated in the House. The amendments proposed by the Opposition would have prevented this whole sorry chapter of delay, deception and deterioration of relationships between the parties concerned. But he said that there would be no point in having this discussion with members of the Opposition. The Opposition moved: 
That the Bill make provision for acquisition of reserves existing at 3 1 March 1 97S. 
That amendment was defeated in both Houses. A Queensland senator,  Senator Kathy  Martin, later said that in retrospect perhaps the Government should have looked at some of the Opposition's amendments. I suggest that now might be a good time to insert into the Act those five simple words: 
. existing at 31 March 1978. 
What we feared, what I expressed to the Minister, what the Northern Land Council told him, what the Aboriginal communities, their legal advisers and the Uniting Church in Australia told him could happen, did in fact happen. A week later on 6 April the reserves were degazetted. The Bill that had been introduced with such a flourish and fanfare to meet all the contingencies claimed by the Minister in his second reading speech was null and void; it had no effect on those communities. The Premier of Queensland laughed at the discomfiture that he created for the communities and for the Federal Government. On 17 May the Minister issued a media release about the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Bill. He stated: 
The Commonwealth will be watching very closely the implementation of the new legislation and will take up with the Queensland Government any problems immediately they arise. 
That may have happened. If so, the Government has been very quiet about it. The only time that I have seen any evidence of the Government taking up any of these problems is when there is a public outcry. It seems that the initiative must always be taken by the deprived people before the Government will make any public statement about any action it is taking to see that the Queensland Government carries out its obligations, particularly to bring forward a lease agreement with the Aurukun and Mornington Island shires at the earliest practicable time. I know that governments, bureaucrats, courts and legal people have a habit of using words such as practicable' in such a way that the powerful people can benefit but the weak people are continually pushed to the wall. How long does it take to draft a lease? 
These people will be given only 50 years' access to their land under the terms of the lease. But how long does it take before the Government will spell out with goodwill on both sidesabout which I have no doubt the Minister is genuine- the terms of the lease? The legal advisers of these people at Aurukun and Mornington Island have not sighted the lease. Those people do not have a clue what the terms of the lease will be or even where the 500 hectares that the State Government will reserve in each of these shires will be situated. It might be land on which somebody wants to locate some facilities for mining bauxite. It might be located where somebody wants to take out a prospecting lease for copper, manganese or uranium. We do not know what land is to be excised by the Government from these territories. The people do not know the terms of the lease. They are working in limbo and then are being condemned for not being able to manage. To jog the Government's memory on this matter of course we continually have to ask questions and raise this matter in public. On 14 March the interviewer on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  PM  played a recording of what the Premier had said as far back as 30 June 1 977. At that time he said: 
No, I don 't want to take over the reserve as such . . . 
Those two little words 'as such' are very significant. He continued: 
We want the people to be free, to come and go- like Queenslanders. I never want any of these people to stay there if they don't want to, or control or regulate them in any shape or form. 
He is the same Premier who told the legal adviser of the councils when he met with the councils recently at Aurukun: 'Get out of here- I am the Premier of this State- or we will arrest you. ' The charge was not mentioned but if anyone doubts that Queensland is a police State, they should see the Premier when he comes face to face with powerless people out of the range of the media. On the same PM program  Mr Charles  Porter said: 
I will be greatly surprised, if after a few months of the Government assuming control and providing effective management, the peoples of Aurukun aren't extremely happy with the change that will have taken place. 
A few months have gone by and there is no sign of those people being any more pleased about it. In fact they have gone to the extreme of saying: We do not even want any State money here'. I believe that those people can survive without State officials, State buildings, State money or State help of any kind. They are demonstrating that by moving to outstations. They are moving back to the homelands where they are regaining their own dignity, becoming healthier and setting up their own educational services without any pay. The children are far more interested in that. This homeland movement is taking place throughout Australia.  Mr Porter  said that this is an intrigue by subversives. On the same  PM  program the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said:   . . it is a matter in which if the Queensland Government chose to act on its own it could ... I am disappointed that they didn't get in touch with me to let me know what was happening. 
He is still being disappointed; he will be disappointed for much longer if he thinks sweet reason will do anything for the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island while the Queensland Government has the whip hand. The legal adviser to the Aborigines, who was not named for ethical reasons, referred to allegations about the takeover making access to the bauxite deposits easier. These allegations having been denied by the State Government, he said: 
From a legal sense no, but ... as the managers of the reserve they would have greater access constantly to the people on the reserve. 
That is where the rub is. The Queensland Government wants to be able to lean on people as it has leaned on people throughout Queensland for so long, to intimidate them and deprive them of services or to bribe and threaten them and to use police action in improper ways. Information about such matters I have documented to the Minister even this week. It has concerned other Queensland settlements. The Minister said that representatives of the Uniting Church said: 
. that if it was satisfied that the people at Aurukun wished to have the Queensland Government take over the administration then they would abide by the wishes of the people, but . . . all the indications were that the people wanted the Church to remain. 
That position has never changed. It has always been the case. The Minister was asked whether the Commonwealth would intervene. He answered: 
. I will be considering the matter very, very closely indeed and I will be reporting to the Government. 
He is still doing that. He does not report to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island; he does not report to the public; he reports to the Government and the Government then tells him what he can say. In fact I do not know whether he was even able to give an answer two days ago to the chairmen of the Aurukun and Mornington Island councils when he was asked whether he would assist them to come down here to see the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I think the Minister replied that he would consider the request very closely. 
Because of the limits of time I cannot go into the whole history of this business but, as the Government pointed out in April and May, it has power under the Constitution to take over this land. It is what the Aborigines want. The Prime Minister has committed himself to do that if it is necessary. It will never be more necessary. The necessity will never get any less.  Mr Purcell  who was at one stage a legal adviser to the communities, when interviewed on  AM  on 8 May 1978, said:   . . they've told us quite plainly that that won't do. 
He was referring to the Federal Government's undertaking. He continued: 

 Mr Fraser and  Mr Viner,  we spent two hours with them the other night and they told us quite plainly that they are not prepared to respect our wishes as against the Queensland Government's wishes. 

 Mr Purcell is not a left.wing stirring radical. He stood recently as a Liberal Party candidate for the Victorian seat of Lalor. So the sorry tale goes on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What action has been taken on the recommendations of the report to him entitled 'The Greater Involvement of Aboriginals in the Economy of the Pilbara and Kimberley Regions', and, in particular, the provision of (a) planning for training for specified industries and irrigation-based development expected, (b) adequate staff for duties, with facilities and accommodation comparable with those provided for other departments and mining staffs, (c) ternary and continuing education facilities and investigation and development of existing facilities, (d) co-ordination and detailed legislative policy planning of facilities, (e) offices of his Department in each major town, (f) cultural and work exchange programs, (g) training teams, films and media promotion of community understanding and (h) a demographic survey. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1 978: 
Has he assured the Western Australian Aboriginal Trust that any attempt to override its authority will be countered by Federal Government resumption of Aboriginal land at the request of the Trust. 
The Opposition has no objection to the objectives of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory (Remuneration and Allowances) Bill 1978. The Bill makes a straightforward and frank adjustment, unlike some adjustments which have been made retrospectively in some of the State parliaments to safeguard the position of members obtaining other remuneration. This is purely a machinery matter and, of course, does not involve the Government in any extra expense. The Remuneration Tribunal is an honourable mechanism by which we in this House and other senior officials of Australia obtain adjustments in their salaries, emoluments and other benefits. I think it is worth while mentioning at this stage that this is perhaps the only chamber in an Australian Parliament which has a provision under which we can knock back the  recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal. In fact, we have knocked back recommendations. Three times in my time in the Parliament Labor members have declined rises in their salaries. Of course, this year a rise in ministerial salaries was declined. We have no objection to the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Abor iginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) Why was  Mr B.  Fordham of the Aboriginal Development Foundation retrenched for 6 weeks recently. 
Why was his job not restored thereafter. 
Were Messrs A. and C. Tomlins employed to replace him and did they actually replace him during the retrenchment period. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) During what period and for what remuneration was  Mr B.  Valadian employed by both Aboriginal Hostels Limited and the Aboriginal Development Foundation. 
What rules or guidelines has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs concerning dual employment in both organisations. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) Who authorised the purchase by the Aboriginal Development Foundation of a second-hand Ford F100 utility from  Mr B.  Valadian. 
) What was the purchase price. 
What is the wording of any minutes of the Foundation referring to the purchase. 
What tenders or quotations were sought before the purchase. 
5 ) Did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs or any of its officers sanction the purchase. 
Were the Department's rules and guidelines observed in the purchase; if not, in what respects were they ignored. 
What was  Mr Valadian  's relationship to the Foundation at all material times. 
asked the Minister for Abor iginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization is experimenting with kenaf crops for the Ord irrigation region to demonstrate commercial viability or otherwise. 
Will he take up with CSIRO the possibility of integrating with these experiments the assessment of pilot training and employment schemes for Aboriginals in this area of major Aboriginal unemployment. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 978: 
Did the Government make $900,000 available to Queensland for a hostel on Thursday Island for visitors to the hospital. 
If so, when were these funds made available. 
What stage has the project reached. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 978: 
Was  Mr Frank  Purcell, solicitor for the Uniting Church, escorted by State Police from a meeting at Aurukun on 11 August 1978. 
) Was an officer of his Department similarly expelled. 
Who called the meeting, who was invited and who attended. 
What was the object of the meeting and what were its decisions. 
What other facts are known to officers of his Department regarding meetings and proposed meetings at Aurukun on that day. 
Has he assured the Aurukun and Mornington Shire Councils that their complaints are believed and understood and will be acted upon to ensure that they manage their own affairs in their own way on their own freehold land. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What subsidies, concessions and other financial assistance have been provided by successive Governments to Mary Kathleen Uranium and associated undertakings (a) directly and ( b) indirectly. 
What taxes, lease payments, royalties and other net revenues have been received by successive Governments from those undertakings (a) directly and (b) indirectly. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to toxic effects attributed to 2,4D herbicide and its contaminants and the resulting restrictions on its use in recent years in other countries. 
When did the National Health and Medical Research Council or its appropriate committee first contact spina bifida associations or similar organisations for indications of areas and periods of abnormally high incidence of spina bifida, anencephaly and related neural tube deformities in Australia in recent years. 
Will he take prompt steps to ensure that restrictions similar to those applied in the United States are placed upon the use of 2,4D and related substances in Australia, and to support with appropriate legal assistance claims for compensation by families with a prima facie case that they have suffered handicaps as a result of the use of synthetic chemicals. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) When did the interdepartmental committee on South Sea Islanders, which was established in 1975, make its repor(Hansard, 23 May 1978, page 2356). 
Did the Minister say on 16November 1976  (Hansard,  page 2747) that, when the report was received, the question of whether it should be tabled would be considered. 
Will the report be tabled. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your guidance on a matter of procedure. Is a remedy available to a member of the House to deal with a Minister who has left questions unanswered for inordinate lengths of time? I refer to the fact that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has had several questions on notice directed to him for over six months. Most of the first SO questions still on the Notice Paper are directed to him. 
I wholeheartedly agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  with regard to the retrospective taxing of accrued annual leave, long service leave, retirement allowances and so on. Because of the limited time available to me in this debate I wish to concentrate specifically on Aboriginal affairs. I recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his weekly electorate talk last weekend stated that his Government's  2'A  years in office had marked a 'real turning point for the Australian Aboriginal'. The Opposition wholeheartedly agrees. With this Budget the Prime Minister has turned the hopes of the Aboriginal people right around and driven them back into the intolerable conditions that were characteristic of their treatment in the 1 950s and 1 960s. 
Spending on Aboriginal housing has been allowed to slide to such a deplorable state that the 
Government was shamed into a so-called special initiative' in Aboriginal housing. But the special initiative' is still 28 per cent, or more than a quarter, lower in real terms- that is taking into account the adjustment for inflation- than the level of spending in the last Labor Budget. Indeed, it is still lower than the first Fraser Budget. Further, if we discount the special allocation of $450,000 to the Northern Territory Housing Commission, spending this year, in real terms, has increased by only $1 Wm over the last year and there are not too many houses in that. Although the Minister called this a special initiative, it is not enough simply to pay for the maintenance of existing homes. The existing homes which have been and which are being rented to Aboriginals would need far more than that allocation. 
What will happen is that although a few new homes will be built, that will be fewer than the numbers going out of service and deteriorating, and the backlog will grow. The Government thinks nothing of spending $40m on VIP jets for the Prime Minister. Recently he had extensive renovations made to the Lodge in Canberra, the cost of which would have paid for several Aboriginal houses. This meagre effort occurs at a time when the Department of the Minister produces statistics showing that 25 per cent of dwellings in areas other than capital cities are impoverished. Both grants-in-aid and grants to the States are still well below the funding level of 1975-76. Not only has the Government created a backlog in housing for Aboriginals, but also the Aboriginal hostels program has suffered. 
We should remember that this Government completely suspended the hostels program for 1976-77 and has not yet made up for that suspension. Further, the Government has progressively halved funds available under the Aboriginal housing and personal loans fund. The whole of the increased funds this year are taken up under a new scheme whereby occupants of housing association homes may obtain funds to purchase the dwellings they occupy. Whilst this is a welcome initiative, I suggest that the funding is inadequate overall and that it should be restored to the same real level of 1976-77. That is not asking too much. It is asking far from enough. Obviously, if we are going to beat inflation, and all the other problems for which the Government sets top priority, we should not be doing it at the expense of people who are struggling to exist and who are suffering from the inability to catch up. Certainly many of us suffer because of inflation but we do not suffer what these people suffer. Their needs should not be pared in this way. 
The Government's decision to cease funding the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders' housing panel and to hand responsibility for architectural services over to the Department of Construction is just one more example of the lack of concern of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for the wishes of the Aboriginal people. Of course, the Minister is not specifically responsible. The whole Government bears the responsibility, particularly the architects of the Government's economic priorities. There has always been an urgent need for a body to provide architectural services for the express needs of individual communities following full consultation with the people of those communities. Ideally, the communities should have the means, the initiative and the funds to engage architectural expertise themselves. But at least the housing panel was a start to have some expert, in depth, approach to consulting with various communities about their various needs. 
The panel in its early days had many failings but following its reorganisation it has operated successfully. It has consulted the people of various communities. It has produced homes that suit the needs of those people, instead of producing the many unoccupied, white elephant structures, the so-called bus shelters and so on, that are scattered around different communities in Australia due to inadequate consultation and due to people trying to impose what they perceive as the needs of the people on people who have vastly different needs in the housing field. 
The Minister will only aggravate the problems by believing that he can abolish the panel without making adequate provision for alternative representative Aboriginal housing planning services. Queensland is a typical example, where the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement spends its allocation on Aboriginal and Islander housing without any consultation, planning or appreciation of Aboriginal and Islander housing needs, and frequently without any proper accounting system of housing and construction costs. Nor does it invite any participation by the Aboriginals concerned in such things as on-the-job training employment. The end result is that the blacks in that State live in boxes totally unsuited to their individual needs. 
In some areas like Yarrabah they are crammed together like in an inner suburb. They are close to a dusty unsealed street with lush rolling acres of reserve all around. This is a complete abnegation of Aboriginal sensitivity to their land and surroundings. This causes fights and tensions. This township of Yarrabah has a complete lack of sealed streets. Dust flies every time anybody goes past. It is placed at the end of a totally sealed road all the way from Cairns to the reserve township boundary. That is the sort of priority the Queensland Government has. It looks at the convenience and the comfort of the white administrators as being far more important than the needs of the community they are allegedly serving. Without the housing panel the Aboriginal people can look forward only to more homes in the Queensland tradition, designed by white bureaucrats in capital cities who are totally oblivious to Aboriginal needs and to the environmental conditions of the areas where housing for Aboriginals is needed. 
Consultation with Aboriginal people about their housing needs is central to the Australian Labor Party's policy and the Opposition rejects both the abolition of the panel and the Government's ignorance of the wishes of the Aboriginal people. But the matter goes much further than housing. The Minister has also seen fit to ignore the publicly acknowledged fact that the most important possession of Aboriginal people in Australia is their land. It is their very life, their very existence. They say: 'If you take my land from me you kill me'. Spending by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission has been hampered under this Government, not only by the lack of funds but also because the Minister finds it extremely easy to delay approval of purchases. Thus, every year the allocation of funds is eroded and pared down while the amount unspent and carried over from the previous year gets bigger. If the Minister delays for a few months some other buyer often snaps up the very property that the Aboriginals are claiming as their traditional land. That relieves the Minister of the necessity to find funds and so he can cut the allocation of funds for the next year. One more property has gone down the drain. One more opportunity has been lost to buy the property at a reasonable price. 
For 1978-79 the appropriation is 27 per cent less than the previous year's appropriation. This cuts the allocation by one quarter for no good or sufficient reason. This year the Commission has available to it, in total, $500,000 less than last year. This Government has done nothing but hinder the Commission's acquisition program. Not only have funds been cut back but also in 1976-77 no additional funds were available to the Commission and funds carried over from the previous year were frozen by Ministerial directive. So, while the Minister talks about selfmanagement and the Prime Minister talks about turning points and rights, their ruthless actions make a mockery of their rhetoric. 
Spending on Aboriginal education has also suffered under this Government. Spending on Aboriginal education as a proportion of the total education budget has dropped from 2.2 per cent under the Australian Labor Party Government to 1.8 per cent under the Fraser Government. This is the answer of the Government to the fact that only one per cent of Aboriginal students reach matriculation. Bilingual teaching is poorly provided and bi-cultural education exists hardly at all except where a dedicated teacher makes a special voluntary effort. Aboriginal health has also been hit by this Government despite promises by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. During the 1977 election campaign both promised funding for Aboriginal health programs costing $7m in 1978-79. The Minister on Budget night, now comfortably back in office, stated that the new program would be started this year at an estimated cost of $2.5m, which is about one third of the promised amount. 
This Government cannot afford to break election promises in such a sensitive area, especially in light of the fact that Aboriginal infant mortality in Australia is as high as 98 per thousand in some areas. It is one of the highest rates in the world and five times greater than that of the white population. About 60 per cent of Aboriginal people in Central Australia over 60 years of age are blind and 30 per cent of Aboriginal children under 1 1 years of age have trachoma. Because of the lack of preventive medical services and health services, on average, urban Aboriginal children cost the Government hundreds of dollars a year per child in remedial medical costs. In non-urban areas, 36.9 per cent, more than one-third, of the communities have no doctor and 32.9 per cent, nearly one-third, of the nonurban communities have no access to hospitals. About one in five of these communities- that is, 1 9 per cent- have no nursing staff and so on. 
But the Government was not content with simply breaking an election promise. Although the Minister claimed that his Department's spending on Aboriginal health programs increased by 7. 1 per cent- that is about $2m- he failed to mention that the total Government spending figure in fact reflects a reduction of $1.3m. This is the familiar story of figure juggling to hoodwink people that we have seen in all aspects of this Budget. The total Government spending figure represents a decrease of 2.5 per cent when compared with last year's allocation and that was underspent by $ 1.4m. This level of spending is still well below the 1975-76 level. The Government's new training category is welcome, especially in the light of the disastrously high Aboriginal unemployment level which is now well over 50 per cent of the work force. The pity is that it took such a critical situation to get the Government to act at all. It is also disappointing that funds were cut in many other areas to enable the establishment of this category. Already the northern New South Wales region of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has rejected funding completely this financial year in protest at the Budget. I should like to refer to its telegram in which it stated the grounds for this rejection. The region rejected the funding on the grounds that the funds are inadequate to allow continuation of current programs. This is a denial of aboriginal advancement and self-determination. 
The conditions of Aboriginals living in urban and country areas have deteriorated rapidly. The Minister made some loud noises on his trip around New South Wales communities in June this year, but that was all. If the Prime Minister believes the core of his Government's policy regarding Aboriginal advancement is summed up in the term 'self-management' then let him tell that to the Aborigines of Woorabinda who ask for Federal Government takeover when delegates go to Aboriginal conferences and other organisations but are too frightened even to allow their elected representative, a Labor senator, to go there in fear of political repercussions. Let the Prime Minister tell that to the Aborigines at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
-I commend the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  for the remarks he has made. While tobacco is a major drug problem in Australia and a greater menace to health than illegal drugs, there is an even bigger problem and that is the alcohol problem. I commend to the honourable member a study of the recent action of the Swedish Government in removing alcohol from beer. 
I propose to speak today about the Federal Government's failure to honour promises to Aurukun, promises going back much further than the dispute which erupted earlier this year. In March 1976, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  stated that discussions at Aurukun had 'helped form views on the needs of the situation at Aurukun and in particular the need for the Commonwealth Government to ensure that the Aurukun community is involved in negotiations about the terms of, and arrangements for, any mining development on the reserve'. This need was ignored and this failure established what has become a tradition of broken promises by this Government. On 22 March this year, the Minister, announcing the Australian Government's intention to take over the two Queensland reserves, stated: 
The Government is satisfied that the people of Aurukun arid Mornington Island strongly oppose the proposed takeover and that the Queensland Government's decision was taken without prior consultation of Aboriginal opinion in the communities. 
It is no longer good enough for officials and governments to decide what is in the best interests of Aboriginals. Aboriginals must be free of paternalistic bureaucratic control. All Commonwealth policy and action is designed to that end. 
The Government obviously has lost its concern. Without announcement it has altered its policy in a gradual, insidious way to try to minimise protest. Following abolition of the reserves by the Queensland Government and the establishment of the two shires, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who represents the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in another place, stated in answer to a question on 12 April: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has already stated publicly that if the proposed legislation and the lease arrangements which will be legislated for by the Queensland Government are not satisfactory to the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth will use its constitutional powers of acquisition in order to ensure that the rights and interests of the people of the two communities are fully protected. 
On the same day, in the House of Representatives, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave 'a completely unequivocal assurance' that the rights and prerogatives of the two communities could and would be safeguarded. So much for the Prime Minister's unequivocal assurances. It is all history now. It has been conveniently forgotten by the Federal Government. Why the Prime Minister's phenomenal memory has become so convenient I shall touch on if time allows. When the Queensland Government introduced its amending Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Bill it was criticised by the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and by the Uniting Church in Australia. The Minister stated that the Commonwealth would have wished for other amendments but felt that selfmanagement could be achieved under the legislation. This marked the end of effective Federal Government interest in the issue. It established the practice of quiet acceptance by the Federal Government of all that the Queensland Government dished out to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Again, memory lapses have become convenient, as I hope to explain. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Can he say whether a submission from the Department of Engineering Physics of the Australian National University to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources in May 1976 expressed the view based on extensive theoretical investigation, analogous commercial experience and promising experimental confirmation that (a) a prototype solar powered energy transfer and storage system can be made to work at costs comparable to those of existing isolated towns' electricity generation, (b) it should be cheaper than nuclear power, (c) it would be well within the production capabilities of Australia and (d) it would be more amenable to flexibility of siting, power storage to compensate for weather and seasonal fluctuations, and more economically adaptable to evolution towards large scale basic power production than the central tower solar power systems now being developed in the United States, so that by the time large scale units are developed it may already be cheaper than existing alternatives and save Australia 's fossil fuels for export and other valuable uses. 
If so, did the submission rightly claim that (a) Australia does not have the resources to develop nuclear fission or fusion energy and (b) these energy sources are too costly and large for most isolated or under-developed communities. 
Does the proposed system provide for alternative cheap by-products of oxygen, ammonia as a fertilizer in increasing demand, and methanol from coal as a chemical industry substrate and motor fuel. 
What funds from (a) the Australian Government or allied sources and (b) other sources have been allocated in Australia specifically to (i) this project and (ii) atomic (A) fission and (B) fusion research in case of development of nuclear power generation in Australia. 
Will he take urgent steps to ensure that a prototype is promptly developed in co-operation with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Government's aeronautical and other technical facilities so that Australia can share in the expertise, industrial development, environmental conservation and removal of undue pressure on later generations of Australians from other countries for our oil, gas, coal and uranium reserves. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Was the Ranger uranium agreement scheduled for signature on Thursday of this week? Has the date been brought forward to today? If so, why? 
-The conflicts and allegations over the proposed development of uranium in the Northern Territory have brought the hypocrisy of this Government squarely before the Australian people. While preaching self-management for Aboriginal communities, this Government has continually broken its promises to the Aboriginal people. During the last 33 months the Government has presided over the deliberate erosion of financial support for Aboriginal welfare and development programs. It has denied Aboriginal rights to traditional lands in the Borroloola land rights claim. It has failed to take action to honour promises made to the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities. Now there are allegations of Government pressure and threats to ensure the start of development this year of the Ranger uranium project. All the denials in the world by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  do not discount the basic fact that over the last nine months this Government has continually put off consultations and then applied pressure to force its will on the Aboriginal people. 
The Northern Land Council was set up under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1 976. In the year since the Council 's current Chairman was elected he has been thrust into negotiating an issue in a role and in a manner totally alien to his culture. As the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry pointed out, Aborigines have never before been confronted with such important matters requiring a knowledge of a negotiating system utterly foreign to their traditional methods of consultation. This Government has attempted to force an agreement to satisfy its own interests, the mining company's interests and the interests of the Territory's Legislative Assembly at the expense of the interests of the Aboriginal people. It is the Government, not the Aboriginal people, that has bound Australia into a uranium-contract-centred time-table. No member of this Parliament would have the ability to negotiate in a foreign language within an unfamiliar system of government with a man as powerful as the Prime Minister on an issue as sensitive to the Aboriginal people as is land, the very symbol of their culture, their traditional social system, their sense of identity and self-dependence. 
All this has happened in less than nine months, while the Aborigines have constantly been reminded by the media, the Government and the uranium developer that mining will get the go-ahead this year, that the Federal Government controls the uranium-bearing land, that rnining will go ahead no matter what the traditional land owners want, and that negotiations must conclude and will conclude before the wet season this year. I think it is already too late for that. So why the great rush at the last minute? These men of power with the stroke of a pen can speed up cultural genocide. They can destroy all that the Land Rights Act gave or pretended to give to the Aboriginal people. The Government thrusts the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council and an executive member of the Council into a room with the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and their hatchet man, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and insists on definitive discussions about what the Aborigines see as the apocalyptic destruction of their land. 'You have to decide now' is the call. Regardless of what was said at that meeting at the Darwin Travelodge on 8 September, the fact is that over the last nine months there have been constant reminders that the Government must sanction the continued existence of the Northern Land Council. As summed up in the words of  Mr Yunupingu:  'You can't muck around with the Government. A group of blackfellows can't do that'. Any Australian placed in that situation, let alone the representatives of a minority group in our community forced into the ruthless game of mining industry politics without the chance to master the rules, would feel under pressure. As far as this Government is concerned, it worked. 
In the weeks before the 8 September meeting we saw a very different  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council say that the agreement would have to be translated from English; that an undertaking not to build the Arnhem Highway extension would be only a step towards having the agreement signed; that the agreement would not be signed until the Government undertook that the Jabiluka project would not go ahead; that the agreement was, to quote  Mr Yunupingu  's word, rotten; and that the agreement would not be signed immediately by the forthcoming Northern Land Council meeting. Those were strong words. Now he has eaten them. The Prime Minister must have been very convincing in his arguments. Nine months of operating within the overpowering Australian system of government has resulted in the Government's forcing its uranium go-ahead policy on people who do not want their land and their lives torn apart. 
The persistent reminders by the Prime Minister of the urgency of completing negotiations have now resulted in a total breakdown of the traditional Aboriginal method of decisionmaking. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs must be proud of the fact that deliberately or otherwise his Government has effectively taken away from the Northern Land Council its representative capacity. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had an obligation to understand the traditional method of decision-making and should have respected it. I remind the House of the letter sent today to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs by  Dr H.  C. Coombs, one of the most experienced and compassionate supporters of Aboriginal rights in this country. In his letter, which he has released publicly,  Dr Coombs  told the Minister: 
I wrote to you on 24 August, drawing your attention to the fact that, unless Aboriginal communities deeply affected were given the opportunity quietly to discuss the issues involved in the proposed agreement between the Government and the Northern Land Council, and to reach a consensus about them, any so-called agreement would command no sense of commitment to it from the Aborigines affected. I urged that you defer the meeting of the Northern Land Council to allow adequate opportunity for a consensus to be developed ... 
The Government ignored the advice. As  Dr Coombs  wrote in his letter: 
You have chosen rather to pursue a course which has denied the Aboriginal groups concerned real knowledge and understanding of what is involved, and the opportunity to consider it by the processes traditional in their society. 

 Dr Coombs is adamant that the Government must reconsider and allow the Aboriginal people more time. 
How about for this wet season, for a start? 
The interjections obviously use the argument of the thin edge of the wedge- 'You must not do anything good because they might want more'. I do not accept that. The Opposition rejects the argument that it is no good to do something right because people will want more than their rights. We should do the right thing first and then argue if they want more than their rights. To refuse to do so would be, as  Dr Coombs  rightly points out:  a confession that the Ranger agreement has indeed been concluded under duress, and that the Australian Government rates the immediate profits of mining companies more highly than the deeply-felt anxieties for their ancient way of life of those Australian citizens whom we have, over the last 200 years, continuously robbed of what was theirs by plain and sacred right 
This issue is not one of making decisions whiteman style. It involves discussion among clans about land, people and their very existencediscussion which, quite often, takes months to organise and years to conclude. I make no apology if it takes years to do this. If the Government were genuine about wanting a consensus, instead of sitting on its bottom for six of the last nine months and ignoring the approaches from the Northern Land Council, it would have kept the discussions going continually. The NLC waited four months to receive an answer from the Government on one proposal. Do not let Government members tell me that they are interested in consensus while they allow that situation to take place. Despite the statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the House yesterday, the traditional owners have not been kept informed. Their wishes are not reflected in the Ranger agreement because most of them have not seen it. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs have claimed that there has been no pressure. That is not what the Press has quoted the Ranger partners ' chief geologist,  Mr Ryan,  as saying.  Mr Ryan  was a former Progress Party candidate for Tiwi in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly election. He said - 
The honourable member can disbelieve the chief geologist of the Ranger partners if he likes. The Government engaged him.  Mr Ryan  said: 
Let's face it. It does mean pressuring the NLC for a decision, otherwise they'd take another two years to make up their minds. 
Perhaps that is the answer to the honourable members who ask how long it will take for a decision to be made. The Ranger geologist says that the Aborigines could take another two years to make up their minds. He went on to say: 
The Aborigines have been hurled into one of the most acrimonious debates this country has ever seen and they're not equipped to cope. 
Now I come to the crunch statement: 
The Government has only itself to blame. It took six months to reply to the NLC's original proposals which it received last year, and now it has painted itself into a corner. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Resources are at the centre of the blame. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has an obligation to acknowledge the fact that within the Aboriginal system representatives cannot make decisions isolated from the traditional communities without consulting the people of those communities. It is basic to Aboriginal culture that long, informed and organised discussions must take place between the traditional leaders and the whole of the community they represent before a decision can be reached. It is then accepted as a binding consensus. Yet this Government has continually forced the Northern Land Council to overlook this obligation by demanding decisions from 'representatives'. I put that word 'representatives' in inverted commas. It is a white notion of representation. It is not an Aboriginal system. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has a duty to respect the traditional system. If, as he has done, he fails to acknowledge and respect the ways of the Aboriginals, he has no right to claim an ability to protect their interests in the national Parliament. 
The Opposition rejects the notion that there has been adequate consultation with the communities concerned. We reject the Government's divide and rule treatment of the Arnhem Land Aboriginal communities. In the light of nine months, or whatever period the Government cares to name- a pretty inactive nine months- of consistent pressure placed on the Northern Land Council and its  chairman  by this Government for an agreement, we reject the Minister's denials of duress. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs obviously is not equipped with the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Aboriginal people to gain a satisfactory agreement for all parties concerned. If he is behaving in this insensitive way because of pressure from within his Party, he should do the honourable thing, as his leader once did, and get out of the job. If, on the other hand, he genuinely wants to assert a feeling for Aboriginal methods and techniques of arriving at a consensus, he ought to make that much more evident in his actions and not just in his words.  Dr Coombs  has rightly said in his letter that the Government will destroy one of the most promising young leaders of the Aboriginal community in Australia if it persists with this highly destructive approach to all Aboriginal values. 
The Opposition calls upon the Government to heed the sort of sentiments that are echoing through this country, not only from  Dr Coombs  but also from practically every Aboriginal organisation that has ever expressed its voice on land rights. This issue is the cry from the hearts of the Aboriginals. It is a subject which has affected them politically more than any other in our time or in any other time. We call on the Government to respect that sentiment irrespective of whether honourable members opposite consider that Opposition members are genuine in what they are doing. I believe that we are genuine. Perhaps the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is genuine in what he is doing. I ask him to make this evident in his actions and not just in his words. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What action had been taken under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act before Thursday, 17 August 1978 in regard to the proposal of Pancontinental Mining Ltd to extend the Arnhem Highway to Jabiluka, NT. 
What recommendations have been made by the Office of Environment Protection regarding this proposal. 
Has the Government accepted all the recommendations of the Office of Environment Protection; if not, what are the reasons for rejecting these recommendations in whole or in part. 
To the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Will he announce or publish the priorities set by the Government from time to time for projects considered or to be considered by the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council. 
This debate is about much more than the estimates presented for the Department of the Northern Territory. It has become a wideranging debate which takes into account not only the handover of limited rights and the imposition of hard State responsibilities on the people of the Northern Territory but also northern development. This Government has provided a flat untied amount of $2 80m for the Northern Territory which, according to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  will enable the Territory to meet operational and capital expenditures in respect of the functions transferred on 1 July 1978 and for health services which are to be transferred on 1 January 1979. The amount provided will not meet the expenditure on these functions at the previous year's rate of spending if we allow for inflation. That is, Territorians will have to tighten their belts like the rest of us, despite the fanfare and flourish associated with the provision of the $280m. 
Self-government or de facto statehood in the Northern Territory in one of the greatest political confidence tricks of the Fraser Government era. Without referendum, self-government has been force-fed to the Northern Territory by the Liberal-National Country Party Government in Canberra and its Country-Liberal Party collaborators in the Territory. Statehood has been force-fed to Territorians simply because conservatives in Canberra want to be rid of responsibility for the Territory's problems and because their novice colleagues in Darwin are obsessed with power. Sadly, it is only after the event that people have experienced the consequences and have had an opportunity to judge the wisdom of the Territory Government's avid acceptance of self-government. This is a Government which, by the way, gained less than 41 per cent of the primary votes at the Territory election last year. 
The Northern Territory this year has already seen massive rises in electricity charges, cuts in library grants for the Northern Territory Education Department, a 54 per cent increase in third party vehicle insurance, increases in motor registration fees and stamp duty. Sewerage, water and other household charges have risen by half. As well, the Territory has to rely on raising $37m in taxes when the population of 1 10,000 people contains only an estimated 30,000 tax paying units. It has to rely on $24.8m revenue from interdepartmental recoveries and loan repayments by statutory authorities. 
Stamp duty on cheques, mining agreements, company documents, deeds, hire purchase and real estate agreements has been increased by up to 500 per cent. The betting tax has been doubled. Business confidence in the Territory is down. Watkins Ltd, a major construction firm, is pulling out of the Territory entirely. A second medium-sized construction company has gone into liquidation and several others are in dire straits. What this Government should have realised is that without adequate enterprise to support the Northern Territory as a State the main result of its self-government policy will be financial disadvantage to residents of the Territory. It is not only through actions of the Northera Territory Legislative Assembly that these residents will be financially disadvantaged as they are at present through increased charges. 
There has been a 50 per cent rise in household electricity costs and a 70 per cent rise in commercial electricity rates. Much of this increase will have to be paid by government departments. All the latest houses, for instance, are airconditioned. All these enormous costs have been loaded on to make the Territory a viable concern standing, as it were, on its two feet. It is not only, as I have said, through actions of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly that the residents will be financially disadvantaged. Under the Federal Government Budget salaries paid by the Northern Territory Department of Education are down 1.37 per cent in real terms despite a planned 48 extra staff. While the allocation has grown from $47.3m to $59.9m, this is a drop in real terms if we allow for a 7.9 per cent rate of inflation. Independent schools will be marginally better off but state school budgets will be drastically cut. 
The library services will receive $70,000 which means that there will be no new books at all for existing schools and their library services will fall below national standards within 12 months. This is especially damaging to Aboriginal students. The media centre allocation has dropped by twofifths from $150,000 to $90,000 despite $1.8m promised to provide a new media centre. Today 250 Northern Territory teachers stopped work in protest at this vicious chopping off of all library facilities at existing schools. These are the features of the decline in resource centres for students. It may be that further stop work meetings will be necessary to draw attention to the Fraser Government's ruthless attitude to an area where many schools provide for deprived families. 
On examination of the Budget Papers we do not even know how much Federal money will be spent on Aboriginal education in the Northern Territory. The Government has disguised the figure by incorporating it in the Budget category Government Schools and Pre-Schools in the Northern Territory' rather than giving Aboriginal education in the Northern Territory its own category as has been the practice in the past. There are numerous industries which could be developed in the Territory if Federal Government finance was available. Northern development to bring the Territory to the take-off point of a viable State economy depends on the support of the Commonwealth Government not on a share of a 'State ' or 'State-like ' budget. 
If the Northern Territory is to establish industries that will take it part of the way towards operation as a normal State it will need far more investment than the $2 80m the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given for his House of Assembly colleagues to distribute while cutting back in real terms by a greater amount in departments from which the Darwin Parliament will now have to take over. Let us look at what the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was able to do with that money. The tourist industry, if properly established and developed, promises to be a major income earner for the Northern Territory. Within the untied grant provided by the Federal Government the Territory Government was able to devote only $ 1 . 1 m to the establishment of a viable tourist industry. Tourism could be a lucrative money spinner for the Territory. But it will not bear fruit until more formal analysis of the industry is undertaken. The recent See Alice While She's Hot' promotion proved what could be done with proper analysis. But of all people the Minister should have been aware of the costs involved in undertaking this analysis. 
Fisheries, with the establishment of the 200-mile economic zone, could provide an opportunity to boost Territory income because of the enormous addition to Territory fishing grounds. In the past much of the north Australian prawn catch was taken outside the 12-mile zone. However, because of the mismanagement and over-exploitation of resources, the industry has not operated at optimum level. The Copes report on 'Development Prospects for the Fishing Industry of the NT' concluded that the Northern Territory fisheries resource was capable of yielding significantly greater economic benefits than were being obtained, and this has remained the case. The $1.2m that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly budget was able to channel to the fishing industry is not enough to right the wrongs. More research and feasibility surveys will have to be undertaken before a successful operation can be developed. With detailed analysis and research, some agricultural industries could well prosper in the Northern Territory. I know attempts have been made; I know that very often they have been improperly researched in advance. The pastoral industry would also prosper from more detailed research. 
The Federal Government must make up its mind as to whether it is serious about viable Northern Territory development and selfgovernment. The failings of the past should not be borne by the present residents. Had the Federal Government waited so as to assist with the basic ground work for reinforcing the Northern Territory's economy we would have been seeing a more successfully operating and more economically sound north Australian State in the future. The people of the Territory would then have been in a position to carry with confidence a referendum in the Territory in favour of selfgovernment. 
Finally, I want noted a very significant development today for all people in the Territory. A telegram received by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  reads: 
Eight hundred people on Galiwinku community marched today in full support to the traditional land owners to stop uranium mining agreement this day we march and fly the NT flag at half mast to express our sorrow in digging up the real incoming of our life our blood our mother who gave us birth. Uranium is dangerous not only to Aboriginal people but to the whole world. The NT flag and Australian flag will stay at half mast until we are listened to. 
People of Galiwinku 
-by leave- The Opposition welcomes the promptness of the determination of this claim and the fact that the whole of the land claimed by the Aboriginal people concerned has been acknowledged and sustained by the Government. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made some references to the previous determination which referred to the Borroloola people. One of the main criticisms in that case arose from the fact that no expert evidence was called from people who might be considered leading authorities on the nature of Aboriginal land claims, namely, anthropologists. From my brief reading of the judgment so far, the Land Commissioner has not made clear to what extent he considers it necessary to set out that Aboriginals not only can establish traditional ownership but also need to establish their intention to occupy the land. He did make much of this distinction in the Borroloola case. 
I believe that this is an issue that does need resolving. I hope that it will be pursued in greater depth in future claims. It should not necessarily be grounds for denying a land claim simply to say that the people have no intention of living there. I take it that the Minister would be open to further representations and renewed claims on behalf of the Borroloola people in relation to those areas of land which were not granted to them last time and which are very central to their comprehension of the land use, particularly the joint use. I refer to the periodical ceremonial use of the whole of the land and not just those sections which were granted to them. 
The Opposition shares the concern of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who has just spoken. It is well established Australian Labor Party policy that we should provide the United Nations forces with assistance. I think that we have demonstrated a practical capacity to back that up. I sincerely hope that the Government will do likewise not only because Australia is concerned with Lebanese citizens here but also because it is concerned for common humanity. There are other situations in which we should take an interest, including East Timor. 
In the short time remaining for this adjournment debate I take the opportunity to supplement some of the remarks I made last week when we were dealing with the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I draw attention to some aspects of policy in that Department. I am glad that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is at the table. I hope he will glean amongst his other deliberations some of my remarks. 
Under the Fraser Government, Aboriginal people in Australia have suffered a slide in the level of operation of Aboriginal programs that has effectively put these programs more than eight years behind. The development of this reversing trend is continuing. It has reached an intolerable situation. Already the northern New South Wales region of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has met and rejected funding completely this financial year in protest at the Budget. The funds provided were not sufficient to continue current programs. The region's telegram of advice to the Minister stated: 
This is a denial of Aboriginal advancement and selfdetermination. 
Grants to the States for Aboriginal education have decreased by 2.24 per cent over last year or by 9.9 per cent since the last Labor Budget. Adjusted for inflation, the decrease becomes 30.7 per cent or $1.9m since the last Labor Budget. In total, spending on Aboriginal education under the Fraser Government is 12.7 per cent or $5m less in real terms than it was under the Labor Government. The last Labor Government brought total spending on Aboriginal affairs to a level proportionate with the percentage of Aborigines in the population. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is doing his best to erode that situation. 
The Fraser Government Aboriginal Affairs budgets have been consistently characterised with misspending, underspending and broken promises. The so-called special effort in the area of Aboriginal housing for this financial year is a direct result of backlog created in this area by the deliberate cutbacks in previous Fraser Government Budgets in both maintenance and construction programs. Even so, the $2m additional funding over last year's allocation will not solve the problem. Funding for this financial year is still 28 per cent lower in real terms than the level allocated in the last Labor Budget. Grants in aid and grants to the States for Aboriginal housing are both still well below the level of the last Labor Budget. 
Since it has been in office, the Fraser Government has halved the funds available under the Aboriginal housing and personal loans funds. The whole of this year's increase has been taken up under a new program for the purchase of Aboriginal Housing Association homes only. The Government has ceased funding the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Housing Panel. This is yet another example of the Government's lack of concern for participation by Aboriginal people in the design of their own homes. The Department of Construction will have to start from tors to achieve, we hope, some sort of communication with Aborigines in this field. A successful housing program demands full consultation with the people if the individual and community needs are to be considered adequately. The New South Wales Aboriginal Lands Trust has been told what its allocation is for 1978-79 but it also has been told that it will not be handed over any of that money until December. No reasons were offered for that course of action. It is running out of money and the direct effect of this policy will be felt by people living on the New South Wales reserves. Its allocation this year has been cut by $507,033- over 45 per cent- in operational funding. 
We also question the recent practice of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs of allocating money direct to communities or unincorporated organisations. Whilst this can be good decentralisation in some cases, there are instances in New South Wales where firms act as trustees for community organisations and control the community's funds. Most of them are law or accountancy firms run by whites. The New South Wales Aboriginal Lands Trust will have to increase rental charges in Trust homes without being able to give anything in return. Most housing is badly in need of maintenance. Yet, funds will not be forthcoming until December this year. There are other areas of concern that are raised with me almost daily,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that he is the only Minister with several questions on notice unanswered for over 6 months, and that less than SO of the first 800 questions remain unanswered, most of these being directed to him. 
When will he inform the House of the Government's intentions to promote alternatives to nuclear energy as asked in some of the questions referred to in part ( 1 ). 
-The last Labor Budget in 1975-76 brought total spending on Aboriginal affairs to a level proportionate with the percentage of Aborigines in the population- about 1 per cent. The Fraser Government has done its best to erode that situation. In the words of the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, in its Statement of Concern prepared for the Catholic bishops of Australia, at page 4 it states: 
The economic downturn- affecting the Aboriginal population far more than other groups- has been used to justify the cutting of expenditures and the breaking of election promises. 
Not only have funds not been restored since the dramatic cuts of the first Liberal-Country Party Budget but also recently this Government has resorted to trickery and manipulation of the Budget figures to make things appear better for Aborigines than they really are. The Fraser Government's Aboriginal affairs budgets have been consistently characterised by misspending, underspending and broken promises. In 1976-77 financial year the Department of Aboriginal Affairs budget was underspent by over $ 17m. In 1977-78 election promises were made which Ministers subsequently thought nothing of breaking in the 1978-79 Budget. With this Budget, the Government has shown no hint of a future reversal of its policy of damaging fundingcutbacks in Aboriginal programs. I have referred several times to this Government's so-called 'special initiative' for Aboriginal housing in this Budget. Let me state again that this funding increase is a token response to a crisis in Aboriginal housing that has been created by this Government's own deliberate and massive cutbacks in housing funds since it has been in office. Funding for this 'special initiative' for Aboriginal housing is still 28 per cent lower in real terms than the level of spending in the last Labor Budget. It is still lower this year than in the first Fraser Budget. Grants-in-aid and grants to the States for Aboriginal housing are both still well below the level of those in the last Labor Budget. 
Since it has been in office the Government has halved funds available under the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund. Curiously, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has seen fit to increase continually the funds available to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander Housing Panel and then suddenly in this Budget to cease funding altogether and to sack the people at less than four days notice after offering them options of one month's or six months' notice, depending on their Public Service status. The Minister's official explanation was -that overhead costs were high and that expert advice will still be available from the Department of Construction and, when necessary, from private architects. The Minister knows that that expertise is not available from the Department of Construction because he is now instructing the people of Aurukun to appoint private architectural consultants, and he has instructed a housing association at Alice Springs to engage the already resident ex-Housing Panel architect in a private capacity. One finds the Minister's motives behind dismissing the Housing Panel questionable. I hope that his decision was not influenced by the Panel's repeated warnings to the Minister over his use of the services of Stawell Timber Industries in breach of the Minister's own departmental regulation 2.3.2. 
It is a rarely published fact that under the Community Development Employment Project scheme of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, Aborigines in remote areas are actually working for the bare unemployment benefit. There are three extremely disturbing facts about the operation of this scheme. One is that it breaks international law to which Australia is a party. The International Labour Organisation has condemned the situation in which we have placed Aborigines. If they work, they get the dole; if they do not work, the dole payments stop. The second disturbing aspect is the fact that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs endorses Aboriginal people working for under award wages. That is a practice which it rightly condemns in relation to Queensland Aboriginal reserves. The third disturbing aspect is the fact that the unemployment benefit funds are actually coming from the budget of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and not, as they should, from the budget of the Department of Social Security. People involved in the scheme are, therefore, not officially recorded as being unemployed. It is just one more cover up and another example of cooking the real unemployment figures. 
In the majority of these cases the Aborigines want to work because they want to earn their social security moneys. However, the Opposition finds it wholly objectionable that, together with the funding cuts already effected in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, unemployment benefit payments should have to come from the scanty funds of that Department and not from the funds of the Department of Social Security. This gives a falsely bloated idea of the dwindling amounts of money paid out in respect of Aborigines. 
The moneys currently spent on unemployment benefit payments by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs should be used for the training of Aboriginal people in an occupation that would effectively ensure them of work once training is complete. It would ensure them of work in a higher wage bracket which could help some Aboriginal communities to achieve financial independence, improve public works and amenities and help the country's economy. This Government has also consistently hampered spending by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission by cuts in funding- in 1976-77 no funds were available to the Commission- by freezing funds and by refusing to approve purchases until it is too late because mining or pastoral companies have bought the land concerned. It is time that this Government, and in particular the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, recognised the importance of ownership of land for the Aboriginal people and did something positive about promoting Aboriginal acquisition of that land instead of increasing the obstacles in their way. 
Funding for land acquisition this year is highly inadequate. It is 27 per cent down on the allocation for last year. The Government's practice of penalising the Commission's funding allocation each year because of funds that it prevented the Commission from spending in a previous year is hitting at the very heart and life blood of Aboriginal culture. Indeed, it makes a mockery of the Government's policy on land rights. I shall quote again from the Catholic bishops' statement which has been praised by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It indicates that land rights are an urgent issue of natural justice. Page 1 1 of the statement reads:  . . . mining ... in Arnhem Land could be just as destructive . . . and produce the same long-term effects, as the dispossession in the rest of the continent. Even more threatened are . . . communities in Western Australia and Queensland . . . who have neither land rights nor the protection accorded under the Northern Territory Act. 
This is to the shame of the slow pace of the Labor Government. But it is to the even greater shame of the present Government which inherited a strong body of land rights law prepared in the Whitlam Government years and which has whittled them away ever since. The Government's treatment of Aborigines living on reserves in New South Wales is also dishonest. The Minister, when touring through New South Wales this year, expressed his concern publicly about appalling conditions and standards of living. Yet now, even though the New South Wales Aboriginal Land Trust has been informed of what its current financial year allocation is, it has also been informed that it will not actually receive the money until December this year. 
If the Minister thought that conditions were bad in June, a return to the same areas in December will show him how fast the situation has worsened as a result of his Cabinet withholding funds.  His  expressions of concern are made completely vain and empty when I point out that the New South Wales Aboriginal Land Trusts' operational funds for this year are 45 per cent less than they were last year.  His  Budget decisions are forcing the Land Trust to increase rental charges in Trust controlled areas without it being able to give its tenants anything in return. As the Minister has implied the majority of Trust homes are badly in need of maintenance. However, funds for broken roofing or piping, peeling walls and rotting timber will not be forthcoming until December. 
During the 1977 election campaign, both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs promised additional funding of $7m in the 1978-79 financial year for Aboriginal health programs. Yet, on Budget night eight months later, we found that the additional programs worth $7m would merely be started in this financial year with funding of $2.5m, and not the expected $7m. This is a broken promise in an extremely sensitive area. Just one of the many sad victims of this broken promise was a project for a much needed Alcoholic Rehabilitation Centre at Rockhampton- the mother city of Central Queensland- in my electorate. The organisers of this project were encouraged to set up and register a company and had spent money to achieve this end. As late as this month, they were assured by Canberra officers of the Department that $50,000 was available for the Rockhampton centre. In the same month, this offer was suddenly withdrawn with no explanation provided. There has evidently been a brutal Budget bungle or deliberate deceit of disadvantaged people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
What Government support has been agreed to for the Kimberley Land Council. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Has the Queensland Premier indicated to the Prime Minister his first priority under the National Water Resources Program for funding in Queensland. 
Will Stage 2 of the Ross River project receive funds under this program; if so, how much. 
When will funds be available for spending under this program. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 August 1 978: 
1 ) Has the New South Wales Aboriginal Family Education Centres Federation informed the Regional Director (Eastern), Department of Aboriginal Affairs, that it decided on 6 April 1 978 to refuse Federal funding for the last quarter of 1978-79. 
Has the Federation been an autonomous allAboriginal self-help movement since 1969 emphasising aboriginality and family education especially for infants and their parents, run mainly by people supporting themselves by taking menial contract work despite having done special training at Sydney University. 
Did the Federation complain that the sub-total public funding support given did not warrant the time required for continually repeated explanations to a succession of junior officials of what they were doing and why they did not want to be a pre-school. 
Will the Government allocate funds for 1978-79 for self-help autonomous educational activities of a type desired, designed and directed by consuming Aboriginal communities. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Had construction ofthe Arnhem Highway extension to Jabiluka, NT commenced before 17 August 1978. 
Had the Government authorised the carrying out of any works associated with construction of the Arnhem Highway extension before 17 August 1978; if so, what form did this authorisation take. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, and when was it taken, to consult with (a) traditional Aboriginal land owners, and (b) the Northern Land Council in regard to the proposed extension of the Arnhem Highway. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Did the Queensland Supreme Court on S October 1976 decide that  Mr Killoran  as trustee of an Aboriginal reserve must account for all moneys in respect of mining on that reserve, keep properly audited books and devote the proceeds to the reserve, not to the Aboriginal Welfare Fund. 
Has he sought advice as to the proper accounting, auditing and use of moneys derived from other enterprises under the control of  Mr Killoran  on Aboriginal reserves. 
Does the Commonwealth Government require access to these accounts before deciding the amounts of its grants to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Is he able to say whether the Queensland Ombudsman,  Mr David  Longland, reported to the Queensland Parliament on 6 April 1 976, that ( a) the Aurukun people were in fear and angry because promises of consultation had been broken twice with regard to prospecting and mining and entry permission had not been sought and (b) associated Church dignitaries intervened to suggest that Aborigines should not in retaliation break their promises, but be prepared to negotiate if the chance was finally offered to them to do so adequately. 
If so, does the report contradict claims of Queensland Ministers that the Church was (a) a purveyor of fears, innuendoes and half-truths or (b) interested only in getting money from possible mining of Aurukun land. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether (a) a Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement official instructed or advised Hubert Dooley, a driver employed at Woorabinda, to take Jane Ray, her grandson and Caroline Saunders with him on the front seat of a hearse carrying a coffin containing the body of  Mrs Ray's  late younger brother, Ruben Salmon, from Rockhampton to Woorabinda on 2 August 1978 for a funeral; (b) the vehicle was stopped several kilometres from Woorabinda and the 4 occupants ordered by the Sergeant of police and/or Manager from Woorabinda to alight and burn their belongings; if so, why; (c) Robert Bundle,  Chairman  of Woorabinda Council, and others engaged  Mr Jeremy  Harper, solicitor, of the Aboriginal and Islander Legal Service, Rockhampton, to obtain redress for  Mrs Ray, Mrs Saunders  and  Mr Dooley  for their loss, intimidation and mistreatment; (d) some of these persons, whose employment, housing and other aspects of personal and family security depend on the Woorabinda Manager, after speaking with the then Manager,  Mr Topham,  reversed their requests to  Mr Harper;  (e)  Mr Topham  advised  Mr Harper  that  Mr Dooley  had withdrawn his request for legal aid because he had not understood the full ramifications of what he was saying; (0  Mr Dooley  has been demoted from his job as driver to work at the cemetery; if so, when and why; (g)  Mr Bundle  improperly took from canteen takings $130 with  Mr Topham  's knowledge, to recompense  Mrs Ray  in part for her loss and $30 to recompense  Mr Dooley  in part for his loss of belongings burnt on the roadside; (h) the goods burnt included two blankets and a nightgown given to  Mrs Saunders  before she left hospital in Brisbane to return to Woorabinda via Rockhampton,  Mrs Ray's  suitcase, clothing she had bought for the funeral, a $20 note, the shoes  Mrs Ray  was wearing and her other belongings except the clothes she wore, a 
Bible, a family photograph and camera which she hid behind a log and recovered later; (i) the Manager and or Sergeant refused  Mrs Ray,  who had travelled all night from Townsville for the funeral, a lift into Woorbinda 'to hear the singing for her brother' but offered to hold up the funeral until another vehicle picked her up; (j ) the funeral service in fact finished before she arrived; (k) a crowd gathered outside the office to demonstrate their anger, causing the Sergeant to send for police reinforcements; (1) the Manager requested a number of Woorabinda people,  Mr Ray  and a Department of Aboriginal and Islander Affairs liaison officer, who has since left the settlement, to sign a statement exonerating him; (m)  Mr Dooley  signed such a statement which he did not fully understand; (n) others signed and some refused to sign these statements; (o) the Woorabinda community is so oppressed by the Queensland laws and settlement regulations, which have been condemned by the Commissioner for Community Relations as contrary to international human rights, that they fear for their homes, jobs and safety to the extent that they are unwilling to testify to the oppression while the Sergeant remains in authority there, and (p) several complaints have been made to police, to the Aboriginal and Islander Legal Service and to  Mr N.  Blair, National Aboriginal Congress representative, about Sergeant O'Shea exploiting financially, intimidating, illtreating and procuring wrongful convictions of Woorabinda residents. 
Will he request a Royal Commission to report on the situation, requesting prompt suspension of the Sergeant until the inquiry is concluded with the appointment of interim replacements jointly nominated by the State and Federal Governments and approved by the Woorabinda Council in the presence only of  Senator Bonner,  a locally trusted Legal Aid Officer and/or  Mr Blair,  and act to remove the effect of the Queensland Act and regulations and to take over the settlement and Foleyvale cattle station if a long-standing reign of intimidation is disclosed. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Will the Government provide a matching grant of $100,000 to the World Council for Indigenous Peoples which has resolved to hold its third General Assembly in Australia in September 1979. 
Will he consult with the National Aboriginal Conference which supports this resolution to assist their organising committee with arrangements for the Conference. 
Should Qantas and TAA be nominated as Conference airlines and other Government facilities be engaged by the Conference, would the tourist and other industries return most ofthe cost to the Government. 
Has his attention been drawn to the reasons given by the Canadian and Greenland delegates for nominating Australia, noting the Prime Minister's support for the third and fourth worlds and his stand on Africa in London in June 1977. 
Has he had representations from the Institute for Aboriginal Studies or other organisations pointing out the incalculable benefits of such a conference and promoting minicultural understanding and cultural development. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Did  Mr Greg  McNamara, a non-Aboriginal, acting as co-ordinator in the National Aboriginal Conference executive selection panel, wrongly inform the panel that David Anderson, an Aboriginal applicant for the two senior positions on the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat was overseas. 
Did members of the panel later state that they would have given preference to  Mr Anderson. 
) Who is responsible for the failure to call  Mr Anderson  for interview and for misleading the panel. 
What action has been taken to correct this serious apparent injustice to the applicant and weakening of the Conference. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to objections to proposals to dam the Dogger and Gregory Gorges on the Fortescue River and alternative proposals to dam the Robe River and upper reaches of the Fortescue or Millstream Rivers, Queensland. 
What steps have been taken to preserve Aboriginal interests as expressed in bush meetings among IS to 20 different dialect groups during 1976. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Has the Government stated as policy that mining of Aboriginal land should be in a manner which reflects the views of traditional owners, and that royalties should be for the benefit of Aboriginals with a fair proportion in trust for those owners. 
Has his attention been drawn to possible breaches of these principles by the Aurukun Associates Agreement Act 1973 of Queensland. 
If so, what steps has the Government taken to correct this position. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has represented my personal letter to  Mr Yunupingu  as proof that I knew of a coup which was to be engineered by the Australian Labor Party to unseat  Mr Yunupingu.  There is no basis for that allegation. I had no information from any person within the Labor Party that he was in Darwin of anywhere else or had had any contact with any Aboriginal person for the purpose of unloading  Mr Yunupingu.  It was common knowledge that Aboriginals were massing and that they were unhappy with the decisions of  Mr Yunupingu.  It was also mooted- I am sure this came to the ears of the Minister as it came to my ears- that the position of  Mr Yunupingu  was in jeopardy. That is the whole tenor of my letter, as anybody can see by reading it. 
When I spoke of some Labor people possibly putting other interests ahead of Aboriginal interests, I was not implying that Labor people were more inclined to do that than are any other people in the community. In fact, the reverse is the case. I believe that the Australian Labor Party, more than any other party, puts Aboriginals ahead of mining or anti-mining issues or any other issue involved with Aboriginal land rights. I certainly did not imply that any person in this Parliament, any staff member of anybody in this Parliament or any Labor Party person in Darwin was engaged in anything improper or was at all inclined to put other issues ahead of Aboriginal issues. I reject such an implication. I have done so in a further letter which I have written within the last few days to  Mr Yunupingu. 

 - Mr Yunupingu can give it to the Minister, if he wishes, as he gave him my last letter. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
At the weekend the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a broadcast in which he alluded to a personal letter which I had written to  Mr Yunupingu,  the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. He claimed that I had implied that members of the Labor Party have been engaged in a web of intrigue to undermine  Mr Yunupingu  and the Northern Land Council. There is no substance in that assertion by the Prime Minister. There is no such implication in my letter. I explained quite accurately last Thursday- I do so again- my attitude to that matter. In my view there are far more people on the other side of the House who have involved themselves in intrigue and in leaning on  Mr Yunupingu  and the Northern Land Council and in attempting to undermine its authority. The people on the Labor side who would put other issues ahead of Aboriginal rights are not to my knowledge members of this Parliament, members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly or members of the staffs of those people. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, again I have been misrepresented grievously by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on the issue on which I was misrepresented last Thursday. He again quoted from my letter to  Mr Yunupingu.  He again said that the meaning of my letter was what he read out from an article by a man called Datta-Ray in the  Canberra Times.  It is nothing of the kind. As I also explained last Thursday, my statement about people within the Labor movement who are putting other issues ahead of Aboriginal interests does not refer to any person in this Parliament or the Northern Territory Parliament or to any of their staffs. The Minister says - 
You mentioned the name of  Mr Muller,  did you not? 

 - Mr Muller is a member of the staff of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren). Mr Datta-Ray  said that he was speaking to young people in Canberra - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member must explain where he has been misrepresented, otherwise he is out of order. 
I have been misrepresented because the Minister has been attributing to me the statement of  Mr Datta-Ray  who said that  Mr Muller,  a member of the staff of the honourable member for Reid, organised young people in Canberra who in his opinion would turn against Aborigines if Aborigines favoured mining. I have never made such an allegation. The Minister is quite incorrect in attributing that sentiment to me. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department  of  National Development 
Proposed expenditure, $49,967,000. 
Department  of  Trade and Resources 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 1 8,890,000. 
Department of the Special Trade Representative 
Proposed expenditure, $462,000. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on15 August 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of increased incidence of malignant disease in workers and residents in and near nuclear power stations, related statistically to the length of time in the area and proximity to the plants. 
What health screening occurs at Lucas Heights, NSW, and other atomic energy projects in Australia. 
3 ) What statistical comparisons are made between malignant disease incidences among workers and ex-workers on these projects and incidences among comparably fit members of the general population in Australia. 
What conclusions can be drawn from such comparisons, and what is their statistical significance and validity. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the Queensland Premier on 18 November 1971, when meeting with a representative of the Uniting Church or its then predecessor, stated that his advisers had found it unsatisfactory to allow 3 per cent of mining profits of Aurukun Associates to go to Aboriginals because a mining consortium in practice handles financial statements in such a way that no profit is shown. 
Is he also able to say whether Messrs J. van Holland and F. Michel Messud agreed, on 3 March 1972, that the product would be sold at cost to the partners. 
Can he state whether the same advice was sent by the auditors of the Aurukun Community Company, Brisbane Chartered Accountants, to the Queensland Minister for Mines on 3 December 197S. 
Can he also state whether the Mining Act of Queensland makes provision for compensation to landowners who have no private title to the land. 
If not, what steps has he taken to ensure that there would be Aboriginal participation in any such mining activity, with a right to participate in its planning, proceeds, training, employment opportunities and the handling of the alcohol problem. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to facilitate organ and tissue transplants on a uniform Australia-wide basis, especially with regard to corneal transplants which are the only means of restoring sight in some 5 per cent of cases world-wide. 
What support will be given to the .1979 International Congress in Sydney of Eye Banks and Ophthalmologists sponsored by the Australian International Eye Bank and Research Foundation and which is expected to attract some 8,000 ophthalmologists. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
What restrictions apply to employment after hours and during leave periods for (a) members of the armed forces and ( b ) other personnel employed by his Depanment. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) What evidence has the Government that former Councillors of Aurukun and Mornington Shires agreed to a 6-month trial of local government. 
Has the administrator of the Councils told Aboriginal leaders that it may be over 7 months before the State Cabinet prepares the promised leases for the next elected Councils. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has a canteen reopened on Mornington Island after an announcement that a liquor licence would be provided to Aurukun and Mornington Shires this month by the State Government. 
What consultations occurred with the Aboriginal community, the Federal Government, the Advisory Councils and the Uniting Church before this announcement and what were their responses to the announcement. 
What funds will accrue to the (a) State and (b) Commonwealth Governments from (i) the liquor licence and (ii) liquor deliveries to and transactions in the Shires. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of Commonwealth funding to the Councils at Aurukun and Mornington Island is paid through the State Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
What proportion of these funds is paid direct to Aboriginal communities in other States. 
Will he ensure that all funds allocated to Queensland for these communities are paid promptly without State imposed conditions to the Councils immediately they are elected and that prompt acknowledgement is made to him by the Councils. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) Are policies of the Department of Construction being allowed to override Government policy enunciated in the Governor-General's speech of 21 February 1978 as promising emphasis on assisting Aboriginals to become more selfsufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. 
Will he review, with other Ministers concerned, the destruction of self-help Aboriginal housing programs in favour of contract housing schemes and conventional civil engineering services which, while administratively easy, often fall far short of Aboriginal needs in remote settlements. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
What has been done to facilitate consultations between the Borroloola people or the Northern Land Council and Mount Isa Mines. 
Has his attention been drawn to increasing anxiety among the Borroloola people that their claims will be further eroded and that mining interests will obtain increasing control over their traditional land already denied to them by the Aboriginal Land Commission. 
Did a meeting on 7 August 1978 decide that their existing attitudes of possible compromise to allow Mount Isa Mines pipeline and port access is a reasonable concession and if no action is taken to ensure Aboriginal security of tenure of Bing Bong, Robinson River and other areas that tension will increase and may lead to trouble for Aboriginals and others. 
Has he refused funds to the Borroloola Council to employ  Mr Leo  Finlay; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
What differences exist between the immigration restrictions of Australia and those of Papua New Guinea on persons moving between Papua and the Torres Islands. 
It is good to hear so many bipartisan speeches during this debate. I hope I will get some sympathy for the latest development in the Aurukun situation which has come to my notice today. I propose to read briefly a letter from  Mr A.  C. Morris, the community adviser. Amongst other things he states: 
In my present position of administering the Aurukun Community for the Queensland Department of Local Government, I request that you would make known the total injustice of the present situation. 
Although given no official position, and described as a drop-out and a stirrer, I am expected to continue the administration of the Aurukun with the Church paying my salary. The Queensland Government have not as yet agreed to reimburse my salary to the Church for the period 1 July onwards and refuse to make any contribution to my future salary. A Shire  Clerk  will not be taking over residence at Aurukun until the new year. 
The Queensland Government have said they will not reimburse the Church for any expenses of running Aurukun from 1 July to 30 September. The Queesland Health Department have also said they will not reimburse the salaries of the two nurses working here during the same period. That Department has as yet taken up no responsibility for operating the hospital. 
While all this goes on, the Federal Government sit back and forget about Aurukun. The local community company, Aurukun Community Incorporated Pty Ltd, through which the DAA fund the community, has or is being starved for funds. The company has had to take up responsibilities previously handled by the Mission or Church administration. As the company has insufficient funds, employees in the garden and sawmill have been laid off and are applying for unemployment benefits. 
The company has made a submission for further funding to the DAA (copy enclosed) but have as yet received not a single extra dollar above and beyond the allocation previously made for 1978-79. The previous allocation is made up of funds for a new air strip, housing, money for decentralised groups and the usual annual thirty-five thousand dollars for company administration. There is no allocation for Aboriginal wages. 
When the Aurukun councillors visited Canberra last month and spoke with  Mr Viner  they came away convinced that the Federal Government would ensure that the company received sufficient funding to employ present staff, both Aboriginal and European. 
Nothing has happened! 
This community has lost all faith in the Federal Government to support them as promised in the early stages of the struggle. The community refused Queensland Government monies, demanding they should first see the lease which will cover their land. However, without Commonwealth support they have been starved into a position where they have no choice but to accept. 
They have been promised council elections before the end of 1 978. However, this seems more and more remote. 
In regard to mining, they have been placed in a worse position than previously with no provision for compensation, royalties or power to control mining on their traditional lands. 
What a sad picture after the achievements that have been made in the Northern Territory. What a long way to go before these people will receive anything resembling justice from the white man. 
Please help make Australia and your colleagues in Parliament aware of what is happening. 
A submission for additional funds was attached to the letter. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who is at the table whether he would have any objection to the incorporation of that submission in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The submission read as follows- 

Submission for Application for additional funds for Aurukun Community Inc. for period 1st November 1978 to 3 1st June 1979 to enable the Company to take responsibility for areas previously funded through the Uniting Church Administration. 
Garden 
Comprises 1 acre planted to bananas. 1 acres planted to cassava.  'h  acres of new horticultural land now under development to be used to grow vegetables in the 1978-79. wet season. 
Market for produce- local community store. 

<graphic href="111131197810242_62_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810242_62_1.jpg"></graphic>

% of deficiency required for November 1978-June 1979-$ 15,350. 
Workshop 
Equipped to maintain Company vehicles and boats, private vehicles and outboard motors. 
B.P. Australia fuel agency. 
Estimated Revenue based on 1 977-78-$25,000. 

<graphic href="111131197810242_62_2.jpg"></graphic>

Deficiency-$ 18,000. % of Deficiency required for Nov. 1978-June 1979 $12,000. 
Sawmill 
Estimated Revenue: 
Frames for extensions to houses in old village at $1,000 per house. (Provide funds are available from DAA to extend 4 homes- Uniting Church has agreed to provide funds for 2 such extensions at approximately $ 1 0,000 per extensions ) = $6,000. 
Timber to repair Shire Housing: $5,000. Estimated Expenditure: 

<graphic href="111131197810242_62_3.jpg"></graphic>

% of Deficiency required November 1978-June 1979 $7,333.32. 

<graphic href="111131197810242_63_4.jpg"></graphic>

2/3 of Deficiency required Nov. 1978-June 1979-S9689 
Building Loan. 
Grant to extend 4 old homes in village at $10,000 per house -$40,000. 
Grant given to Aurukun Community Inc. from which loans will be allocated to original home owners to be repaid in regular weekly repayments. 
A grant has also been made available by the Uniting Church for the extension of 2 homes in the old village. 
A carpenter is available to begin work. The grant would employ one European carpenter and four Aboriginals trainee carpenters, plus provide for all materials and freight. The grant would also provide revenue to the sawmill enterprise (see above). 
Expenditure- $40,000. 
Revenue 1 0 weeks at $ 1 0 per week-$400 
Deficiencies-$39,600 
Total funds required maintain employment level in community-$32,888.64. 
To employ building team additional- $39,600. 
Total-$72,488.64. 
I thank the House. This is a long and sorry story. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  whom I informed earlier this evening that I would be speaking on this matter, has not, I believe, abided by the undertakings that he has given to the Aboriginal people of Aurukun. He seems to have deserted completely this young man who is carrying on, with the church apparently his only hope or assurance of getting any income, and indeed, of employing any Aboriginals at all. The fact that most of them are on unemployment relief, I suggest, is a quite scandalous situation. The people of Aurukun want to know when council elections will be held and when they will see the lease. The Minister apparently told them at one stage that it would be by the end of the year. He has told me quite recently that he hopes it will be by next March. Yet the Minister for Local Government in Queensland said that he hopes it might be by next April. We do not know when there will be a lease or when there will be a local government. The Minister has answered a question of mine recently by saying that the Aborigines agreed to a six months trial of local government. The six months are almost up. There is no sign of it even beginning to work, let alone there being a six months trial. 
-by leave- I refer to a statement 1 made which appeared at page 1324 of  Hansard  of 21 September. I said: 
Watkins Ltd, a major construction firm, is pulling out of the Territory entirely. 
I received today a telex from  Mr D.  G. Watkins, the General Manager of that firm, in which it is stated: 
Please be advised that this statement is totally incorrect and Watkins Limited never has or does not intend to withdraw from the Northern Territory now or in the future. 
I hasten to take this earliest opportunity to correct my statement in view of this assurance because of possible damage to the firm at a time when the private sector, particularly the construction industry, is in difficulties in the Northern Territory as described, for example, yesterday by the Treasurer for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been invited to attend the Northern Land Council meeting next week? If so, by whom and on whose initiative and authority was he invited? Was it by officers of the Northern Land Council, the executive or the full Council? Would such attendance breach the court settlement of 22 September between the Northern Land Council, Dick Mulwagu and Johnny Marali No. 1? Would it prejudice free discussion by the Northern Land Council of the draft Ranger agreement? Can he say whether Northern Land Council members will have free access to legal advice of their choice during the meeting as provided for by the court? 
With qualifications which I will briefly outline, the Opposition supports the concept. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has acknowledged, many of these principles have been put forward for some time by members of both sides of the Parliament. We are concerned that the creation of an Aboriginal Development Agency should not be just a cosmetic operation to kid Aboriginal and Islander people into believing they will have real selfmanagement, if the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is to retain the power of veto in significant areas. We are particularly concerned that a veto could operate for an indefinite time and at several levels and that the Department and the Australian Aboriginal Development Agency will be frozen in their rather impotent stance vis a vis the States, particularly Western Australia and Queenland where it seems that State controls over Aboriginal affairs are repeatedly given priority. 
There are many questions left unanswered in this brief statement and it is probably not appropriate that a great deal of information be provided at this stage before the consultations with Aboriginals envisaged in the Minister's statement have taken place. There are particular points that I think need clarification. First of all, the statement seems to imply there will be three sources of funds. This is not strictly correct because the Land Fund Commission is normally regarded as being incorporated in the Enterprise vote in any case. The Minister is talking about $ 10.6m, some of which is already committed to enterprises which are currently operating under the Enterprise vote. The Minister does not guarantee that he will continue funding even at present levels. He says only that additional funding will be considered in the next Budget. Qf course, we know that already. 
I admit that Aboriginal consultation and decision making should take some priority before the Government is committed. But we think that it is high time that some commitment was made whether the rather planned disaster areas floated by while so-called experts such as the turtle farming, the crocodile farming, the emu farming and the oyster project which are currently operating, should continue to eat up the funds of the Enterprise vote despite the setting up of an Aboriginal controlled agency. That has not been spelt out. 
There have been cutbacks in the amounts available to Aboriginals for almost every purpose, if we allow for inflation, since the Hayden Budget of 1975. The Minister's statement is in Une with the Government's practice of saying that it will do something and then consulting with Aborigines after the event. We would like to be assured that some consultation will take place beforehand. The Opposition acknowledges that these principles have been put forward, to a large extent, by Aborigines. Nevertheless, it is dangerous to be committed too far before it is acknowledged that these statements and proposals have come from the grass roots level. A typical example, of course, is the Ranger negotiations, which resulted in a complete reversal following prolonged, difficult and detailed negotiations, because the grass roots involvement was not present at the beginning. I trust that early steps will be taken to see that when the Minister and the Department consult with the bodies he mentioned- the National Aboriginal Conference, land councils and so on- feedback is accepted right down to grass roots level and that it comes back, particularly in the continuing development of this Agency. The feedback from the grass roots level should be heeded and should have effect because if it does not Aborigines will continue to cop out of the decision-making processes as has been their traditional role, taught to them by bitter experience over the years. 
We would like to know that there will be some continuing commitment to funding, at least at the present level. We believe that when the Government is planning development projects of an ongoing kind, it should realise that this Agency deserves some sort of commitment, at least on a rolling triennium basis such as has been adopted for education commissions and research authorities. The Minister mentioned cooperative efforts with sources of income other than Federal. He mentioned particularly the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account. We would like to know whether this means more government control over the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account or is this co-operation to be completely voluntary? We would like to know whether the Agency will have any independence in raising loan funds and negotiating borrowings, comparable to the independence of State governments, local governments or semi-government institutions. I think that it is high time that the Government started to look closely, if it has not already looked closely, at the question of a treaty of commitment such as has occurred with indigenous people on other continents- a commitment to provide at least for several years, possibly 20 years, a defined percentage of gross national product or mineral income, or both, as a recognition of the need to repay the indigenous people for the priceless assets that we have taken from them in the pursuit of profits, destroying the land which is the basis of their culture and their social structure. 
In the past, there have been some fairly scandalous delays in allocating Aboriginal Land Fund Commission funds. The Government appears to be very reluctant to give this Commission priority over mining interests or any other interests that they want to purchase, for example, a pastoral lease. This is evidenced by the years of delay in approving the purchase of the Bing Bong pastoral lease until the occasion when - 

 Dr EVERINGHAM The Department knew about it at least two years before it was purchased by Mt Isa Mines Ltd. It failed to acquire it before the mining company bought it. To me, that is a scandalous delay that has not been explained by the Government. 
There is also a growing queue for housing funds. The number needing Aboriginal housing is growing faster than the houses are being provided. It may be that extra funding in this particular field in the Budget may overcome the backlog but I am very dubious about that. Many people are not putting their names on the waiting list because it is so long. The moment that need is met at a faster rate, it is quite likely that more people will put their names on the list. We wonder whether playing around with current funds for the Aboriginal Loans Commission also will lengthen waiting lists for urgent needs. Some commitment might have been made to giving sympathetic consideration to Aboriginal requests which I have no doubt will come very early in the piece for prompt delegation of administrative authority to local communities and councils. This could be negotiated and discussed with the Aboriginal bodies within particular limits or levels for particular communities just as, for example, the States are given funds of which certain proportions are allocated to local authorities. 
In the same way, some Aboriginal agencies should be able to delegate the use of funds to other organisations without having to get detailed approval in every case from the Department. For example, it would be nice to know whether the Government would prevent this Agency setting up the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Housing Panel which the Government dissolved this year against the wishes of Aboriginal organisations. It was against the wishes of just about every organisation with which I have consulted or had contact and against the wishes and the advice of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. It was no doubt discontinued as a money-saving exercise but the evidence seems to be that it will have the reverse effect because this was a highly economical procedure. 
We would like to know whether more or less Aboriginal freehold land will be acquired. Will the land councils be recognised and funded in North Queensland and in northern Western Australia? 
We would like to know whether Aboriginal co-operatives will be fostered further and helped to become more self-sufficient, to widen their activities and to undertake, eventually, local government functions and decision making in the educational and vocational fields and in health services supervision. To what extent will this be helped, inhibited or co-ordinated with the new Agency? These are questions that cannot be answered in advance. At least, we would like some government commitment to the principal of self-management, self-determination and an Aboriginal majority on the organs which make these decisions. 
In summing up, we would also like to be assured that consultation with Aboriginals will not be confined to their representatives in European-designed organs such as the National Aboriginal Conference, the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission, as was the case with the first Ranger negotiations. We would like to know that this is not just a cosmetic exercise, that the Agency will have real power and that in fact powers will be transferred from the Department. The Public Service Board structure is so rigid that it actually destroys Aboriginal confidence and very often is counter-productive. We hope that the present system will be phased out rapidly in favour of this Aboriginal-controlled exercise and in line with the concepts of commission which the Labor Party in office used very widely to achieve progress, community participation and feedback from the grass roots level. Such commissions which came within the responsibility of my portfolio at the time were the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission. Other commissions which did not come within my responsibility were the education commission. Of course, in years gone by, we have seen similar involvement with housing commissions and all sorts of bodies that are not constrained by this terribly stifling departmental procedure or mechanism. The Public Service Board hand too often has killed Aboriginal selfmanagement, Aboriginal self-confidence, the development of their independence and the restoration of their dignity and self-respect. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I ask him: Is it a fact that only three traditional land owners attended the Oenpelli meeting which acceded to the Ranger mining agreement? Were 30 traditional owners identified by the Northern Land Council and should they have been fully informed and consulted before the NLC accepted the decision, in accordance with section 23 (3) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act? Was the meeting attended and conducted in accordance with the court settlement referring to the need for the meeting? 
I wish to express the concern of the Opposition at some features of the statement of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the mechanism by which the agreement was arrived at. On page 4 of the Minister's statement it is stated: 
The Northern Land Council has, at all times, acted on the instructions of the traditional owners. 
The resolution of the Oenpelli meeting which objected to the Northern Land Council's initialling the agreement was, I suggest, totally ignored in the Minister's statement. In fact, to my knowledge, he has not responded to it in a satisfactory manner in any of his public statements. The resolution stated in part: 
The Oenpelli meeting requires that consultation with all of the communities represented on the Northern Land Council take place. 
This did not occur because the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs rushed to the Northern Territory and forced a hurried signing of the agreement that the Northern Land Council and the Oenpelli meeting had rejected. I submit to the House and the people of Australia that the Minister has sold out. He has placed mining ahead of Aboriginal welfare and well-being. The past week has not only shown up the Minister for what he really is but also it has left the Australian people in general wondering exactly in which portfolio he is interested. He has been acting in effect as a lackey of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in forcing through a decision which has ignored the traditional owners, despite his repeated assurances in this statement that the traditional owners were consulted and that at all times they instructed the Northern Land Council. Little can be done at the Ranger site until after the wet season so there has been no call for such a rush to get these signatures on the agreement now. Why has there been such a hurry? The injunction which was made on 22 September 1978 stated: 
Only Aboriginal persons shall be permitted to be present at either of the said meetings except for any lawyers required by the Northern Land Council or any individual councillor for the purposes of giving legal advice. 
The current Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, as a lawyer, should have understood and respected that legal document. He did not. He attended the meeting at Bamyili in breach of that settlement. Whether or not he was invited by an official of the NLC is not the point. The fact is that his attendance was a breach of that settlement by that NLC official and the Minister. The Minister and his Government allowed no time for translation into Aboriginal languages of the agreement or any of its simplified versions. The people did not understand. The Minister had a duty to protect their interests by ensuring that they did understand. Translators were available but the simplified versions of the agreement were kept from them despite repeated protests to the Minister in this place and elsewhere in public. 
The NLC's letter is not the point that I am making. No translations were available to the traditional owners to discuss before this decision was forced upon them, not only in breach of Aboriginal traditional methods of consultation but also indeed in breach of normal meeting procedure in a white organisation. The Minister and this Government have now left open numerous possibilities that will arise in the future for people from the area concerned to claim that they did not understand. It is extremely dangerous that Press reports of the Bamyili and Oenpelli meetings differ greatly from the story that the Minister has woven. It still becomes very difficult for the Australian people to know whom to believe. It is disgraceful that such an important matter as this one should be shrouded in so much intrigue. David Broadbent, a respected journalist stated in the  Age  yesterday that every reporter in Darwin knew that the Minister's claim that 'the agreement has the unanimous endorsement of the NLC and the traditional owners ' was false. 
I asked the Minister at Question Time whether it was true that the NLC identified 30 traditional owners who were entitled to know the details of the agreement, to be consulted and to understand it. He did not answer that question. I asked him whether only three traditional owners were present at the meeting. He refused to answer. 
The Minister did not reply. He said that the facts on which my questions were based were incorrect. He did not answer that question. Contrary to the Minister's statement, he did not meet with the traditional owners. He met with three of them. That was enough for the Minister as he needed only two signatures. The fact that those traditional owners are well and truly a minority of the Oenpelli traditional owners is of little consequence to such a driving force in the Government as is the Minister. 
I think that the Aboriginal people of Australia would be more than grateful if the Minister were to drive himself into the trade and resources or national development portfolio and leave his current portfolio open to someone who would represent their wishes and make an effort to understand them. He has seriously damaged the credibility of the Government with the public, the Press, the Aboriginal people and the Parliament. If the Minister refuses to answer these serious allegations and accusations which fit in entirely with all the reports that have come from members of the Northern Land Council and traditional owners since the whole sorry business began, he has no honourable course open to him but to resign. The Minister capped his attitude following the signing when, in the true tradition of the British conqueror, he handed out the rewards. Instead of beads and mirrors, the Aboriginal people were given metal-plated pens. 
It was a nice gesture. I wonder whether the Aboriginal people will find out how much they have sold in return for those treasured mementos. The Minister is well aware of the traditional methods of consultation of Aboriginal people and of the significance of land rights to these people. In the  Northern Territory News  of 26 October he said: 
Of all the relationships traditional Aboriginal man has with anybody or anything the most important is that which binds him to a particular tract of land which he refers to as his country'. 
It is that deep religious bond which I shall try to explain in this column. 
The . . . Government acknowledges the bond under the . . . Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act . . . The Woodward Commission, which was set up under the previous Labor Government . . . found this bond to be very real . . . The commission's findings were accepted nationally both by Labor and the coalition parties. 
The  Northern Territory News  has been giving the Minister about half a page at a time to explain his attitude to and sympathy with Aborigines. As recently as 1 November he said: 
. procedures have been developed by the land councils, who . . . have responsibilities ... to identify traditional owners ... the NLC developed 
. procedures . . . for . . . the Alligator Rivers region . . . 
The procedures were praised by the parliamentary select committee on Aboriginal Land Rights ... an anthropologist, a site survey officer and a linguist 
. with council field officers . . . spent many months in the Ranger area . . . 
Representatives of each land-owning group were consulted, and the results were crosschecked with the Aboriginal people concerned. 
It took many months for a team, including an anthropologist, a survey officer, a linguist and a number of council field officers to establish and carefully cross-check who the traditional owners are. The team came up with 30 traditional owners. If it takes so long to establish who the traditional owners are, how long does it take to get agreement on a complex document such as the one which has been put before us today? It contains many pages of legal complexity. It took many months of intense legal activity by the Government, the legal advisers of the mining companies and the Northern Land Council when it was finally allowed to be party to the negotiations in the latter few months. Yet we are asked to believe that traditional tribal people, with no translations, in a matter of a couple of days said: 'Yes, that will do us fine.' We are asked to believe that they understood the agreement and were properly consulted. In the terms of the Act they were not. The Minister several times in his speech referred to various sections of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. One section that he studiously avoided and did not mention even once is section 23 (3) which states: 
In carrying out its functions with respect to any Aboriginal land in its area, a Land Council shall have regard to the interests of, and shall consult with, the traditional Aboriginal owners (if any) of the land and any other Aboriginals interested in the land and, in particular, shall not take any action, including, but not limited to, the giving of consent or the withholding of consent, in any matter in connexion with land held by a Land Trust, unless the Land Council is satisfied that- 
the traditional Aboriginal owners (if any) of that land understand the nature and purpose of the proposed action and, as a group, consent to it; and 
any Aboriginal community or group that may be affected by the proposed action has been consulted and has had adequate opportunity to express its view to the Land Council. 
The settlement arrived at after the injunction spelt out very plainly that that was what the Oenpelli people wanted. Their requests were no more and no less than they were entitled to expect under this Government's own legislation to which the Minister has repeatedly referred. This procedure has not been carried out. It has not been seen to be carried out. The Minister referred to four meetings in all with the local representatives, the local traditional owners. He did not at any time give us the numbers who attended. He did not at any time suggest that they were given details of the agreement or any of its simplified versions in their own language. He did not at any time tell us how many people were involved in the final bulldozing session which resulted in the signing of the agreement. I believe that he has destroyed the credibility of this Government with the Aboriginal people. He has made the Northern Land Council a distrusted body which will be seen as a mechanism and a tool of powerful white interests. 
He quoted three paragraphs from a joint statement by himself and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I suggest that the joint statement went against the known, published and consistent words of many members of the Northern Land Council, particularly the local owners. According to the report in the  Age  to which the Minister has not even referred today - 
The  Age  is a responsible newspaper. The article has David Broadbent's name attached to it. I asked the Minister specific questions relating to it at Question Time about the numbers who attended the meeting. He has declined to refer to those numbers in any way. There was no suggestion anywhere in the Minister's statement that proper consultations occurred or that the provisions of the Act had been met. He should at least have referred to meeting the provisions of section 23 (3) of the Act which have been challenged repeatedly throughout the whole of the dispute and which led to the taking of the matter to court after an injunction. Yet he prefers to gloss over them and sweep under the carpet all objections which have been raised on behalf of traditional owners. He has completely rejected the matter of Aboriginal land rights, on which he has written so eloquently in the  Northern Territory News.  The Opposition does not accept the assurances of the Minister that this is an agreement with the traditional owners. It will be looking for far more assurances. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The Opposition is not opposed to this Bill. It is essential in equity to provide the same levels of payroll tax and the same coverage of Commonwealth authorities subject to payroll tax in the Northern Territory as apply now in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory. I might add that the Opposition, of course, before the last election proposed to abolish payroll tax. If the Government had adopted that prudent course there would be no need for this retrospective legislation. It would have been far more equitable to leave abolished, as the Whitlam Government had abolished, certain investment allowances which have been and are an encouragement to industry to speed up the elimination of jobs- the replacement of labour by machines- whereas payroll tax has the reverse effect. It is an incentive to abolish jobs and to speed up the investment in machinery to replace labour. Indeed, the Commonwealth would have been far better off if it had avoided using the investment allowance, had imposed excess profits tax on windfall capital gains and had imposed a resources tax rather than the impost that has been placed on consumers of petrol in this country. 
I repeat: We have no objection to this measure in the context of a continuing payroll tax in this country. It is necessary to restore equity. We remind the Government, however, that it would have been totally unnecessary if the Government had adopted the more appropriate form of taxation and revenue raising and abolished all payroll tax. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
What steps has the Government taken to develop a program to implement the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its report 'Drug Problems in Australia-an intoxicated Society'. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
What steps has the Government taken to implement the recommendations of the Horton Report calling for $20m annually to match investments of State and local governments in public libraries. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he authorised a statement on his behalf last month to the effect that he' has given Stawell Timber Industries the help and assistance that any conscientious member of Parliament would give to any constituents' and that he 'gave them what limited assistance he could '? Did this limited assistance include any action tending to give the company an effective monopoly or near monopoly in the direct selling of housing to Aboriginal housing associations? Did it include actions leading to the provision of information to the company about housing allocations before even the recipients were informed? Did it lead to the writing of contracts worth $2m without competitive tenders? What would the Prime Minister regard as substantial assistance to a constituent? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission written to him concerning the directive he gave on 10 February 1978  (Hansard,  7 June 1978, page 3220); if so, when. 
Has he replied; if so, when. 
Will he publish (a) the Chairman's letter and (b) his reply. 
Has the directive been changed; if so, when and in what respects. 
When, and in respect of which properties, has the Commission (a) given him the information and statements required by the directive and (b) received his views. 
Which properties has the Commission purchased since 7 April 1978  (Hansard,  7 June 1978, page 3223). 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Did he promise former Aurukun Council representatives on 20 August 1978 that nominations for a new Council would be called within a month and elections within a further month. 
Did the Aurukun Administrator on the same day state that the elections would not be held before March 1978. 
Will he make a prompt public statement of any firm undertaking given by the Queensland authorities bearing on the proposed election date. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether deposed Councillors of Mornington and Aurukun Shires have started legal action to challenge their sacking. 
If so, who is providing the finance, and where and when is the action to be heard. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the North Queensland Land Council operated for almost 2 years with 75 elected delegates from the 1 7 reserves and 23 towns in North Queensland with Aboriginal communities. 
Was $20,000 allocated by the Commonwealth Government to the Council in 1 975 but never paid. 
When will the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1 975 be gazetted to allow registration of the Council. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Has he welcomed the Statement of Concern prepared by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. 
Has his attention been drawn to assertions in that document that (a) the economic downturn has been used to justify the cutting of expenditure and the breaking of election promises, (b) land rights are an urgent issue of national justice, (c) mining in Arnhem Land could be as destructive of societies and produce the same long-term effects as the dispossession in the rest of the continent, (d) even more threatened are communities in Western Australia and Queensland who have neither land rights nor the Northern Territory Act's protection, (e) if contracting parties are too unequal, consent does not guarantee justice and the rule of free agreement remains subservient to natural law, (f) traditional owners are opposed to Ranger mining but feel oppositon is futile, (g) many government institutions apply assimilationist pressures, and (h) predators grant liquor licences against the objections of community leaders and Councils. 
If so, will the Government correct these injustices promptly and without reservation in immediate and constant close consultation with the Bishops concerned and/or the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has he received a request from the Yarrabah Community Council or a significant number of residents of Yarrabah Reserve for a referendum to decide whether he should declare the reserve under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities SelfManagement) Act. 
Will the referendum be held; if so, when. 
If the referendum will not be held, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the special supplement of  The Medical Journal of Australia  of 9 August 1975 recommending policies for minimising institutional stay and maximising public, professional and parental concern to meet the unique psychological needs of young children, and declaring as essential on-going evaluation of these policies at all levels. 
If so, what progress has been made by the Government in promoting implementation of these policies. 
What implementation has occurred in each State and Territory. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) Does Australia tax an Australian company 70 cents in each dollar on undistributed profits, thereby discouraging expansion, and a multinational company only 46 cents, thus enabling it to eliminate a small competitor by taking no dividend for a year. 
Do laws which distinguish capital gains from taxable income guarantee that there will be tax dodges which favour powerful companies which employ the best experts to ensure that they will never need to pay tax. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Will the Minister and/or the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory be present at a proposed Northern Land Council meeting tomorrow on Croker Island to formalise an agreement to mine at Nabarlek? Are the Northern Land Council and the Government satisfied that all the traditional owners have been identified and that they understand the agreement? Has the draft agreement, or a simplified version of it, been translated into the language of traditional owners and will the Oenpelli community be allowed to discuss the terms of the agreement without outsiders being present or presiding over or directing their deliberations? 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice, on 19 October 1 978: 
What diplomatic contacts have been made with Vietnam, Laos and Kampuchea in the last five years. 
What representations have been made using these contacts to further democratic procedures and respect for human rights in these countries and to foster international discussions and cultural exchanges with them? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
What has Australia done to help ensure that a United Nations peace force is available to lessen the further development of military conflict between Rhodesia and Zambia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 November 1 978: 
Will he give an undertaking that any nuclear safeguards agreement covering the sale of Australian uranium to European countries will include a mandatory provision for Australia 's prior consent for reprocessing or retransfer of nuclear material derived from Australian ore. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
Did his Department's Eastern Regional Director in New South Wales promise financial strangulation of the Aboriginal Lands Trust there in May 1 978. 
Has the Trust (a) experienced a cut of over 45 percent in general funding which will not be available before December and (b) obtained a promise of a public apology for false accusations against it by an officer of the Department. 
Will (a) several Aboriginals lose employment and (b) several urgent maintenance works to housing, water, sewerage and drainage be deferred until December as a result. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Will he table a copy of the letter dated 2 1 July 1 978 allegedly sent to  Mr David  Anderson as an applicant for positions on the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat. 
Why was no telegram sent to  Mr Anderson,  as to other applicants on the short list, to invite him for interview on 3 August 1978. 
3 ) Will he investigate recent allegations in both Houses of the Parliament concerning  Mr McNamara's  advice to the panel making appointments to these positions. 
Will he facilitate re-opening of the positions if improper procedures have occurred involving the Acting Secretary of the NAC. 
Yesterday during Question Time in this House we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  call for human rights in the Soviet Union, a nation as far from Australia's influence as possible. We all support those sentiments. But since his Government took office it has been noted for fine words and not for inspiring actions to promote the rights of the original trustees of his own country, its own Aborigines. When the rallying calls of 'Aurukun', 'Mornington' and 'Ranger' ring out they have a funereal knell for this Government has given them a mournful ring and a sinister stigma. Those words symbolise the soft sell and hard sell-out tactics of the slick Fraser Government. The Prime Minister and his coalition collaborators mutilated the Constitution to ride into Government and they have sidestepped the Constitution ever since. 
Nowhere has their artful dodging been more blatant than in the rejection of their constitutional entrustment with Aboriginal affairs. Funding for Aboriginal programs has been whittled away consistently under the Fraser Government. In real terms, spending on Aboriginal housing has fallen by 28.5 per cent since the last Labor Budget; on Aboriginal health by 28.7 per cent; on Aboriginal education by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs by 20.3 per cent; on Aboriginal employment programs by 5.9 per cent; on Aboriginal welfare by 4.9 per cent; on Aboriginal enterprises- that is, selfmanagement by 70.5 per cent; on town management and public utilities by 50.5 per cent; on cultural and recreational funding by 33.8 per cent; and on legal aid by 15.8 per cent. The Government rightly introduced training into this year's Aboriginal Affairs budget, but, even with that new money, total spending on Aboriginal programs by the Department has shrunk by 29. 1 per cent in real terms since the last Labor Budget. I have drawn attention before to other ill effects of Budget pruning- the abolition of the Aboriginal Housing Panel, the placing of restrictions on the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, and so on. It is typical of this Government to focus such huge Budget cuts on people who are least able to defend themselves or to attract great public awareness to their conquered plight and to their plundered status. There is no sign of that smug attitude changing. 
Aboriginal reserves have reached a new crisis point. A huge injection of funds in some later Budget some year will be needed just to carry out urgent repairs and maintenance to get part of the way towards making living standards tolerable. When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  toured New South Wales reserves earlier this year he made many promises. As usual, he is now proceeding to dispose of them by denying the New South Wales Land Trust its 1978-79 funding allocation until late December. This is making things worse for the people on reserves. No money means no water, no sewerage, no electricity, no repairs, no self respect, no hope, no trust and, for far too many, no future. The delays have forced the Land Trust to put off most of its Aboriginal employees, the essential field officers and liaison staff. Many communities in New South Wales have had to sack their staff because the Government has decided to strangle the New South Wales Land Trust. No wonder the Aboriginal people have lost all faith in the Government. The Minister will understand why when the Aboriginal people reject his future fine promises in advance. 
The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island know very well all about the value of the promises of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In the nine full months since the Queensland Government's intervention in the affairs of the two communities, no practical, no patent and no public progress has been made. Having forced the Aboriginal people to accept- just six months ago today- a six months so-called trial of local government and rather than stand up to the Queensland Government as he will have to do in the end, the Prime Minister can now see that that trial has proved all the worst fears of the people against whom this Government has taken sides. The people still have not seen the lease for their land, nor have they had the constant consultations which we are constantly being assured are occurring. Nor has the drafting of the lease ever remotely involved Aborigines. They are kept constantly and totally in the dark while the Minister utters his reassuring words. Words are cheap, particularly when they come from a cheap Government. 
There are still living in the communities State appointees who were sent there by the Queensland Government since this Government said: 'We will give you self-management'. Local government elections still have not been held and there is no sign of a date being set for such elections. Anyone opposing State administration must first be weeded out of the electoral rolls, according to the State Ministers. That is what they have said. Federal Ministers have said and done nothing to suggest that that will not happen. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has not so far made any response following my personal meeting with him in his office. I asked that he arrange for scrutineers to be present at those elections because there is much evidence of interference by the National Party Government in elections in Queensland- interference even worse than that which was exposed in the courts in Western Australia. Yet on 4 May this year the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs assured the communities that they would make sure the system worked, that there would be true self-management. Over a month earlier, on 30 March, the Minister told the people at Aurukun: 
You are free Australian citizens and you 've got a right to manage your own affairs or be managed by people who are acceptable to you. 
Those are typically strong words from a Minister who is typically weak on performance. He does not have the courage to stand up for the rights of the people he is supposed to serve, either by defying the Prime Minister as  Senator Bonner  did on one occasion or by defying the Cabinet, his Party Caucus, his mining mates or whoever it is who makes his promises a pose and who makes his credibility a high vacuum. The Federal Government claims that it has been extremely generous by giving the people of Aurukun $324,000 for the operations of their community. What it does not tell us is that $75,000 of that money will go towards the cost of a new airstrip, an airstrip that the community feels is not needed because there is nothing wrong with the old one. The Minister and I seem to have got in and out of Aurukun all right on the old airstrip. The Aborigines would rather have spent that money on their outstations. There may be a good reason for spending the money on a new airstrip but it is a secret to the Aborigines. Of course, the Minister will assure us that this does not have anything to do with the community's proximity to certain bauxite deposits or uranium prospectors. 
It is very easy for the powerful to have immunity from penalties in the misappropriation of funds. This Government has become expert at fiscal fudging. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island do not want Queensland style socalled self-management, which is being slowly imposed on them like the closing of the jaws of a giant vice. They have asked constantly for Federal Government help. The Government has just as constantly offered them nothing but fine phrases and hindrance in their struggle for selfmanagement. The son who asks for an egg is given a stone. The great champions of the underdog sell out the Aborigines to State lighters and miners for 30 million pieces of silver or in some cases a lot less. Time and again Aborigines are denied the things that white Australians take for granted. Where else in Australia would we find the community striving for nine months to gain the basic right to elect its own council, the right to see a lease taken out on its own land - 
And the right to build on that land. It is very easy to drag red herrings into the debate. It is typical of this Government. The Aborigines have struggled for the right to see a lease taken out on their own land, the right to build on it, to decide who enters their homes, whether they can collect the rent. I am comparing the position with that in other parts of Australia, not the Soviet Union. The Aborigines want the right to manage their own affairs. There is nothing more hypocritical than this Government pontificating about human rights. In the Northern Territory things are fast becoming just as bad. The Government's behaviour over the signing of the Ranger Uranium Mining Agreement has been shabby and sordid, treacherous and two-timing. Just as the Territory Aborigines had begun to reach a stage of feeling that they had some influence in determining their future, the Fraser Government heavies came in and seduced, sabotaged, destroyed and enslaved what organisation they had. The Minister has sold out all his fine principles, policies and promises. He has placed mining ahead of Aboriginal welfare and well-being. He has discredited and humiliated the Northern Land Council and denied the Aboriginal people the right to consider the most important decision in their history in their own way and in their own time.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a Press release setting out a record of interview with one of the members of the Northern Land Council. It was taken at the Oenpelli meeting. I will leave it on the table pending the approval of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay). 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs chose to ignore decisions taken by the traditional owners and by the Northern Land Council at Oenpelli preceding his visit to the Territory. He also tricked the Aboriginal people into accepting a document which, only days before, they had totally rejected. On 22 September the Minister made this statement on the radio program  PM  in relation to a court settlement reached over the Ranger Agreement: 
The Land Council has to go through the procedures that are very clearly laid down in the land rights legislation to consult with the traditional owners and obtain their consent before any action is taken and also to consult with any Aboriginal communities which may be affected by the agreement and this is what is going to happen from now on. 
The document that I have tabled shows how hollow that statement was. Time has proved that this was yet another cynical and devious ministerial commitment made to be broken. It was a smokescreen to wear down fair criticism, a Goebbels technique to turn Australia into a Third Reich for Aborigines. On 1 1 October the Oenpelli community resolved that all communities represented on the Northern Land Council would be consulted. Within three weeks, the Minister proudly did what the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  could not do. He totally ignored the wishes of the community and verbally bludgeoned, filibustered and bulldozed the Aboriginal people into signing that totally unsatisfactory agreement, falsely assuring them that this would allow proper consultations over the agreement. The minute of approval of the agreement, the court settlement to the injunction, which was reached on 22 September, stated: 
Only Aboriginal persons shall be permitted to be present at either of the said meetings except for any lawyers required by the Northern Land Council or any individual councillor for the purposes of giving legal advice. 
Yet, the Minister openly flouted this agreement and shamelessly took part in a meeting of the Northern Land Council in breach of that settlement. He dominated it. This is not the first time that he has publicly defied the law for party political purposes. He did it when he sacked employees of the Maningrida council against the Council's wishes. He did it when he failed to have tenders called for Aboriginal housing. The Minister has proved conclusively that if ever there was any pressure or manipulation, it was totally conducted by him and the present Government. The tape recordings of the Oenpelli meetings have become closely guarded secrets of the Minister and the Northern Land Council. He has brainwashed and psychologically intimidated this Council into unquestioning obedience. The Minister's conduct and the Government's conduct are a disgrace to the nation. If he obeyed the principles of any selfrespecting dingo pack he would resign. However, his Prime Minister will not tolerate such principles. They are only to be used for persuasion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I think that that remark could be described as unparliamentary. I ask the honourable member to withdraw it. 
I withdraw 'dingo pack'. The allegations and transcripts that are now emerging from the members of the Northern Land Council are most serious allegations of denials of Aboriginal rights. The Minister has applied some of the most ruthless tactics to rush through the signing of the agreement. It is an agreement which contains far too many pious hopes and empty gentlemen's agreements. The Minister said that the people alone were responsible for the six-year delay in the commencement of mining. He said that the Aboriginal people must think of the power-starved Japanese. Not once did he try to explain the draft agreement. He spent hours in harangue. There was no local community consultation as required by law. At the Oenpelli meeting on 11 October, Silas Maralinguru, in speaking against an immediate signing of the agreement, stated: 
We have to slow down, we have to make ourselves tall. 
This Government has ignored the wishes of the people. It has rushed through an agreement that will never allow the people to make themselves tall. They will stay on their knees till this rotten, corrupt Government is thrown out. The Australian Labor Party rejects this Government's disregard for the rights of Aboriginal Australians. I seek leave to table a four-line resolution passed by the Lambeth conference. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) How many submissions were received by his advisers from the public concerning the proposed Iwasaki project in central Queensland. 
What acknowledgements were made of these submissions and what action has been taken on them. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Why were Aboriginal workers sacked from a piggery project at Wee Waa, NSW. 
By whom were they employed. 
) Who holds title to the land and piggery. 
What are the names of the company and its directors controlling the piggery funds. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that between 3,000 and 4,000 Papua-New Guineans yearly enter Australia in the Torres Islands. 
What quarantine surveillance is applied on those islands. 
How do the staffing and other quarantine facilities compare with those provided for similar numbers of persons and points of entry elsewhere in Australia. 
What arrangements have been made with Papua-New Guinea for the control of malaria, tuberculosis, venereal and other infectious illnesses which are either more prevalent among (a) Papua-New Guineans entering Australia than among Torres Islanders, or (b) Torres Islanders entering Papua-New Guinea than among Papuans. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
What were the (a) cost, (b) duration and (c) attendance figures of the 1978 Conference of Presiding Officers in Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1978: 
Has he, as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or as acting Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development, had his attention drawn to submissions regarding the Iwasaki project north of Yeppoon, Queensland, from  Mr C.  Tutt,  Chairman,  Capricornia National Parks and Wildlife Association, and acting  President  of the Capricorn Conservation Council. 
If so, were these submissions acknowledged before he approved the environmental impact statement provided by the Iwasaki Sangyo interests. 
Has he been informed of sites of Aboriginal significance in the region of the proposed development. 
What steps have been taken to identify, evaluate and /or conserve these sites. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to submissions concerning the proposed Iwasaki resort project from  Mr C.  Tutt,  Chairman  of Capricornia National Parks and Wildlife Association and acting  President  of the Capricorn Conservation Council. 
If so, have these submissions been acknowledged. 
Is he able to say whether local government acts providing for auction of land for arrears of rates have been circumvented to allow the Queensland Government to acquire land for resale at a handsome profit to the Iwasaki interests. 
Is he also able to say whether the Queensland Government suspended local government restraints on freehold 
Iwasaki land to accommodate the Iwasaki project while refusing freehold to and enforcing local government on Aboriginals who are traditional landowners. 
Has the Australian Government applied foreign investment guidelines in approving the Iwasaki project. 
Will the project involve upgrading of Rockhampton aerodrome. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  New Internationalist  for September 1978 entitled  Sydney's Black Heart  which reports that among 20,000 Aboriginal people in Redfern, New South Wales, there are 6,000 below 5 years of age, a quarter of them on starvation diets and most of these with permanent nutritional brain damage. 
) If so, is there any substance to the claim that a pilot one year $60,000 nutrition project designed by  Dr Rassly  to teach sound nutritional practices was commended by a Departmental expert and was not approved for funding. 
Will he take steps to correct this apparently morbid priority while Australia spends money to relieve famine overseas and to subsidise food producers in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
What measures have been taken to remedy the educational handicaps of (a) migrant and (b) Aboriginal children as analysed in the final report of  Australian Studies in School Performance- The Mastery of Literacy and Numeracy  produced under the auspices of the Australian Council for Educational Research in April 1977 pursuant to the suggestion made to it in February 1975 by  Mr Race  Mathews, M.P., then  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. 
Have the views of the States been sought on the report. If so, when and with what result. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
What progress has been made in the negotiation of an agreement between the Northern Land Council and Pancontinental Mining Ltd concerning the Jabiluka, NT project and the proposed Arnhem Highway extension. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
Does his Department accept the concept of group alcoholism as being especially typical in Aboriginal communities and group involvement in therapy, especially with groups of recovered alcoholics travelling to stay for a time with alcoholic groups, as being essential to success in treating these group problems. 
Have the results of this approach vindicated the claims of Benelong 's Haven that they achieve more lasting recoveries and more rapid spread of effective initiatives per public dollar spent than orthodox rehabilitation which uses one-to-one patient/counsellor confrontation and individual admission of patients to institutions. 
Have Health Departments co-operated with his Department in increasing the emphasis on and funding for group confrontation activities faster than one-to-one therapy activities. 
What (a) funds have been allocated and (b) number of persons have achieved lasting sobriety in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available in (i) the Benelong's Haven movement and (ii) the most successful alternative. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Has his Department notified former Councillors of Aurukun and Mornington Shires that Federal funding to their Councils will be indirect through State appointees. 
If so, will a condition of these payments be that expenditure, employment, housing and other local government, community development, welfare and commercial activities so funded be under the control of the representatives chosen by the communities concerned at ballots where voting and the custody and counting of votes are supervised by scrutineers appointed by the local communities, assisted by appropriate legally aware persons chosen by them after full information as to voting and scrutineering statutes is given to his satisfaction. 
I do not wish to detain the House, but I wish to reply to a few points raised by the last two speakers on the Government side. I accept the valid points made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  namely, that exchange rates, tariff and excise should be considered in making grants, when the Grants Commission is making determinations as between States - 
Yes, and in other contexts besides that of grants. I point out, however, that not only matters that are within the competence of the Federal Government, such as exchange rates, tariffs and excise but also matters that are within the competence of the States when there are inequalities in export earnings, particularly in the matter of mineral royalties, should be taken into account. Initially Queensland charged Thiess Peabody Mitsui 3d a ton royalty on coal when the Rockhampton City Council was charging 2/6d a ton royalty on gravel from the town quarry. 
The railways in Queensland made a loss this year. Later Queensland put up the royalty to Se a ton. It is only since the Whitlam era that the States have even started to look at the possibility of imposing something Uke a reasonable royalty on their minerals. In fact, when the Federal Government opts out of export charges on minerals that will be the time when the States could hop in and impose a higher royalty, if they are really interested in the long term value of their export earnings and not just in the fast buck and in getting as much exported as quickly as possible. 
As to comparing the Utah Mining Co. with Chrysler Australia Ltd, the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and so on within the manufacturing sector, it is true that we support our manufacturing industry. I dispute the claim that the earnings of workers in those industries are greater than the net value added. In fact, motor car manufacturing employees in Japan have a 20 per cent higher standard of living than their counterparts in Australia. The reason we can get Japanese cars cheaper than Australian cars is that the Japanese have more modern, more specialised and longer production runs. In fact, the Japanese are starting to export jobs from Japan to Korea to get the benefit of cheap labour. Japan is no longer a cheap labour area and the workers in General Motors-Holden's Ltd, Chrysler and Ford works are approximately as efficient and as productive in their work as the Japanese. 
I refer also to the point raised by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  that Queensland spends less on social services because the people there are healthier. He mentioned hospitals in particular. He mentioned the number of paraplegics at the Royal North Shore Hospital. Paraplegics are in all States. Queensland has a bad record of road accidents. I do not know what its record has been in recent years, but certainly when I was in the ministry Queensland was one of the worst States for road accidents and road fatalities. If Queensland is spending less on paraplegics it is not because it has fewer of them but because the service offered is less efficient. Certainly in Queensland hospitals the level of staffing per bed is lower than in other States. Less is spent per bed in Queensland hospitals than in other States. 
The diagnostic services there are provided largely- outside the capital city anyway- by Federal health laboratories. There are many other reasons for Queensland spending less on hospital services than the ones advanced by the honourable member for Kennedy. He mentioned abortions being performed outside Queensland, but 99 per cent of them are performed in private clinics and not in State hospitals. The only government funds that are helping them out are federal funds. So let us not get too emotional about the great paradise of Joh Bjelke-Petersen. 
The pleasant document presented to this House by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  as so commonly in this portfolio, highlights his Government's hypocrisy. It falls far short of his assessment of it as a balanced document. The Government's 1975 policy on Aboriginal affairs was a hurried attempt before an election to improve its old policy and bring it more into line with the achievements and policies of the Labor Government. This Government's implementation of that policy has been pathetic. In some respects it has moved the opposite way. There has been an impediment and a dismantling, not implementation. Contrary to what the Minister has said, I believe that this Government has no reason to be proud of what it has done in the area of Aboriginal affairs since it came to office. 
The Minister claims that five major commitments have been fulfilled. Let us look at these. The first is self-management Let the Minister tell that to the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Let him tell the Maningrida people, whose chosen advisers he personally sacked after consultation not with the Aborigines but with the white cronies of those the Aboriginals did not want. Let him tell the Aboriginal people in his own State that they are selfmanaging when the Western Australian Government has now placed control of entry onto Aboriginal reserves by  mining  companies into the hands of the Minister for Mines. Let him tell the Oenpelli people, who have got tired of fighting and exposing his deceits. Let him tell the residents of New South Wales reserves that, when he is depriving them until December of the funds allocated this year. Some communities have some self-management, provided by the Minister and his Department. I do not want to knock those communities, but I must stress that wherever the Minister steps in personally to proclaim government initiatives for self-management, Aborigines have learned to watch out for a new act of betrayal and dispossession to help a State, a mining company, or an exploiting European. 
The second claim of the commitments the Minister says have been fulfilled is restoration of the National Aboriginal Conference and the setting up of the Council for Aboriginal court which only reason to restore the NAC was that the Government had destroyed the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. It gave the NAC the same advisory role but allowed it less delegates to fulfil that role- 35 now compared with 41 in the NACC. As usual, this was in line with performance, not policy or promises. The Government has cut everything else in the area of Aboriginal affairs, especially funding. The third claim of a commitment fulfilled related to land rights. We all know what this Government did to the Labor Government's achievements in the area of land rights. The Labor Government was pressing negotiations for full land rights and equal land rights in the States. What has happened to that under the present Government? There have been no achievements in that area, except the watering down of the Labor Government Bill, making less broad land rights harder to obtain. Let the Minsiter tell the people of Borroloola about bis Government's achievements in land rights. He sold them out to Mount Isa Mines by delaying purchase of a central pastoral lease, Bing Bong, until the mining interests had made the first bid and bought it. 
The Minister again challenges me on this, and this is the third time I have raised it in separate debates. The fact is that his Department knew at least two years before that the the Aboriginals wanted that land. It was within the capacity of the Minister to make the funds available to purchase it, but the Aborigines heard of the purchase of Mount Isa Mines only after the event A white caretaker sits there and the traditional owners retreat to the wooded outskirts. The fourth and fifth commitments claimed to have been fulfilled relate to the establishment of the Aboriginal Development Agency. I have already stated in the House that the Opposition endorses the principle behind the ADA Indeed, stated government policies go far to cover Australian Labor Party policies in just about every area of Aboriginal affairs. Let us hope that some day the major performance will match the major promises. However, I should like to make one point. On Monday, 20 March, an article appeared in the  Age  newspaper questioning the future of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission following agreement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a Queensland demand. The article stated: 

 Mr Viner told a meeting of senior Aboriginal Affairs officials on March 14 he wanted the commission's functions incorporated in a new Aboriginal entitlement capital account which would become a type of 'Aboriginal Development Bank.' 
On the same day the Minister and the Prime Minister denied the story. Today it has become Government policy. In the  Age  of 22 March, a few days later, the Prime Minister denied a report that he had ordered the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to curb the activities of the Commission following a telex from the Queensland Premier. But the facts and the performance are still there. The Land Fund Commission has not had a purchase approved since the beginning of April of this year. The power of the Queensland Premier highlights the weakness of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Government's priorities are right there in the Minister's statement. 
The Minister completed his story by claiming that his Government has: 
. created conditions in which significant changes in Aboriginal outlook and expectations are taking place. 
The Minister must be very one-eyed if he thinks that that statement is to his advantage. Certainly in my view it is an understatement. It is perfectly obvious that the Aboriginal people can expect nothing from this Government except subminimum funding once a year, if they are lucky. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, the people of the Kimberleys and of Arnhem Land, an know that they can expect only trickery and sellouts from this Government. I think it is a fitting comment by the Aboriginal people on what this Government gives them that yesterday the Aboriginal Lands Trust of New South Wales passed the following resolutions: 
That as from the date of this meeting the Office of the Aboriginal Lands Trust is to cut off all consultation with the offices of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs concerning financial matters until such times as the Aboriginal Lands Trust receives meaningful reply to its request to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for its full funding program for New South Wales. 
That a special investigation committee be resolved to look into financial strangulation of the Aboriginal Land Trust and other Aboriginal organisations. 
The Committee is hereby appoined comprising  Mr Cruse,  M.B.E. and  Mr Griffith  with the authority to co-opt the services of the Trust as may be required and any other persons whomsoever the Committee deems necessary to look into the financial strangulation of the Aboriginal Lands Trust and other Aboriginal organisations and associated matters. 
It is important to note that the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Lands Trust of New South Wales, a member of the newly set up Committee, is also the Eastern Region  Chairman  of the National Aboriginal Council. The Minister's statement is more than hypocritical. He has forced the New South Wales Land Trust into a position where essential services on reserves have been cut off completely. The reserves have been forced to sack many of their employees including essential Aboriginal field workers. Essential repairs and maintenance for plumbing, sewerage, et cetera have no funds until December. The Minister's explanation of why he refuses to give the reserves the funds that have been allocated to them in the Budget of last August is that several communities are getting funds direct instead of through the Trust. But several communities are getting nothing. The repair and maintenance funds for the Trust are little better than half the amounts provided for self-managed homes. The Minister has not disclosed why this year's funds ae being withheld until next month. 
What the public and the Aboriginal people were hoping for when this statement was foreshadowed was an announcement of some major achievement or some dramatic breakthrough. They were hoping for a draft lease for Aurukun, or an acknowledgement by the Northern Land Council that it would consult with Aborigines on their ground in their style and time scale, or perhaps an undertaking that there will be a tightening up of mistakes, such as those made in the appointment of the NAC secretary or in the Stawell Timber Industries deals. But no, this statement is one more public relations exercise. It is an exercise in easing the conscience of the Minister perhaps, or simply an exercise in wearing down the voices of protest. The Minister has lost the trust and respect of the people he serves. Instead of singing the dubious praises of his Government, it would do more for this institution if he set about practising what he preaches in his policies and promises and tried to regain what he has lost. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 
-I do not propose to detain the House.  I  believe that the Opposition spokesman on health, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  will be making a statement on the matter later in the day. Two points which occur to me from the statement of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  perhaps need to be considered. One is the matter of the prospective study which will cost $2m a year to carry out. It invites a comparison with the retrospective study carried out by  Dr McBride  on thalidomide.  I  suggest that it might be fruitful and far cheaper to do a retrospective study of environmental factors in those areas in which birth defects apparently have been endemic in recent times.  I  have no firm data on which to blame herbicides or anything else, but  I  know that misleading answers were given by a local authority in my area to parents who were involved in a freak cluster of abnormality occurring over a short period in an area in which there was large scale aerial spraying to destroy water weeds. There is still room for retrospective study in areas where deformities have been clustered. 
I  would like the Minister to clarify, if not today on some other occasion, the nature of the drug and poisons information service. A service is available at certain poisons information centres. In cases of poisoning doctors can obtain confidential commercial information on the composition of poisons such as cleaning fluids.  I  wonder whether the time has arrived when the general public is entitled to a more frank accessibility to knowledge about poisons, their effects and their handling. The instructions on the label, particularly in the case  I  mentioned with regard to the use of herbicides by a local authority is not always obeyed.  I  believe that there is a need in some cases to tighten up supervision. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the extent of compliance with the provisions of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders ( Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 that an Aboriginal or Islander shall not be convicted of an offence by a court established for a Reserve unless the Aboriginal or Islander, if convicted of the offence, would have the same right or rights of appeal against, or review of, the conviction as he would have if a Magistrates Court established under the law of Queensland had jurisdiction with respect to the offence and he were convicted of the offence by the Magistrates  Court. 
If he agrees with the view of the National Population Inquiry that failure to collect data which will reveal the extent of discrimination or unequal status based on race will in all probability merely allow inequalities to continue unchecked, especially since those responsible can then deny that the inequalities exist, what action has he taken to have Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders separately identified from non-Aboriginals in imprisonment censuses in Queensland as already is done in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia, and in court statistics in Queensland as already is done in Western Australia  (Hansard,  13 October 1977, page 2054). 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1) Is he able to say whether 31 applications for rnining interests involving vacant Crown land have been granted in the Northern Territory since the freeze on further land alienations was unofficially lifted on 1 July 1978. 
Was the Northern Land Council informed of this unofficial lifting of the freeze only after it had occurred. 
Does this in effect remove the protection envisaged by the freeze for a large number of possible Aboriginal land claims. 
Has either Land Council notified him, or the Aboriginal Land Commissioner, that it would be impracticable for them with their existing resources to do the research necessary to prepare individual claims for every piece of vacant Crown land in the immediate future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
What courses are available for Aboriginals (a) in schools run by Aboriginals, (b) in skills particularly in demand by Aboriginals including running repairs for vehicles, plumbing, electrical systems, household appliances and household management, first aid, hygiene, home nursing, elementary bookkeeping and commerce, (c) using traditional Aboriginal techniques rather than formal timetables, (d) in bilingual primary schooling and (e) using Aboriginal teachers. 
How many Aboriginals have (a) commenced and (b) completed these courses. 
How many of those who have completed these courses are (a) continuing studies or (b) in employment related to these studies. 
What encouragement is given to (a) teachers to undertake specialised studies to improve their skills in teaching Aboriginals and (b) Aboriginals to become teachers. 
Is the southern division of the Northern Territory teaching service lagging behind the northern division in bilingual teaching; if so, what is the reason and what action will be taken to remedy the position. 
Is the teacher appointed to teach fringe camp children in Alice Springs, N.T. teaching in fringe camps; if not, what is the reason and what action will be taken to remedy the position. 
What orientation and training is or will be given to teachers posted for the first time to teach Aboriginals. 
8) What constraints or career penalties are applied to discourage registration or transfer applications by those who have found they are unsuited to teaching Aboriginals. 
What will be done to remedy the position referred to in part (8). 
10) What classroom construction has been undertaken in the Northern Territory in schools not needing them but which lack adequate toilet facilities and need outstation schooling which is not available in the area. 
What has been done to remedy this misapplication of inadequate resources. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Is he able to say whether the weedicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T have been tested by United States authorities under the Pesticides Act or the Toxic Substances Control Act or by British authorities including the Health and Safety Executive. 
If so, do the tests include mutagenicity tests on plants and bacteria including  S. typhimurium,  the Ames test and other in vitro tests. 
What validity and reliability have been attributed to these tests by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What are the probabilities of mutagenicity in humans directly exposed to aerial spraying of these substances. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Has the Ramanginning Council been approached to sign an extension of a mining joint venture in respect of EL 130 despite opposition of the traditional land owners concerned. If so, by whom. 
Did his Department issue permits for these persons to visit Ramanginning during the week ending 1 8 August 1 979. 
Has the Government approved the proposed involvement of the French Atomic Energy Commission in this venture. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to ( a) a statement signed by 18 tenants of Aboriginal Lands Trust houses in Walgett, N.S.W., objecting to a rise in rents before repairs are effected to a standard acceptable to the Department of Construction, (b) a report dated 12 October 1978 by Edward Simpson, National Aboriginal Conference Member for the NSD Area, of a meeting at his home, 91 Duff Street, Walgett, which stated that (l) the proposed rise would make rentals almost 200 per cent more than 2 years before, (ii) the Lands Trust knew of the plumbing, roofing and door leaks, some due to inaccurate carpentry, and the lack of screens on windows or doors and (iii) non-maintenance was due to lack of Federal funds and other pressures on the Trust since they took over homes from the Housing Commission, and (c) a circular letter dated 28 July 1978 from G. Kolsky, Finance and Planning Officer for the Trust, listing general maintenance and repairs at almost $ 10 per week per house for 1977-78. 
If so, what steps have been taken to train tenants in these houses in minor maintenance and household care, to facilitate their purchase of their homes, to provide for adequate rental concessions and to provide housing sites and designs chosen by the Aboriginal community concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Will the Government provide legal aid to the farmers whose industry is threatened by the State of Queensland's franchise agreement with the Queensland cement and Lime Co. if legal action under section 50 of the Trade Practices Act is prolonged by the Company. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Did he state on 15 August 1978 that Commonwealth medical benefits, including the 40 per cent Government contribution towards scheduled fees for insured and uninsured persons, bulk billing and payments in respect of hospitals and health programs, will be made by his Department and not as formerly by the Health Insurance Commission. 
If so, will this require processing by both registered insurance funds and by his Department in cases where a fund benefit is also payable and in cases where a fund acts as agent for payments in respect of uninsured patients. 
What is the estimated yearly (a) number of claims and (b) cost for processing by (i) his Department,'ii) Medibank Private and (iii) other funds, of claims which involve Commonwealth benefits. 
What were the comparable costs in real terms of processing the same numbers of comparable claims in each case listed in part (3) under Medibank arrangements for the periods (a) 30 September 1975 to 1 October 1976 and (b) 1 October 1 976 to 30 September 1 977. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) How many Australian taxpayers claimed rebates on overseas dependants during each of the last five years. 
How many of these claims were approved in each of those years. 
Was misuse the reason given for the abolition of the rebate; if so, how many cases of misuse were found in each of the last five years. 
as many recent immigrants have a moral obligation to support dependants, mainly parents, left behind for various reasons including Australia's immigration laws, will he reconsider the decision to abolish the rebate. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Will the research project into middle ear infection at Bathurst and Melville Islands also survey the demographic and epidemiologic aspects of (a) vitamin intake and blood or urine levels during pregnancy and infancy and other nutritional influences, (b) nutritional and hygiene practices, attitudes and understanding, by engaging the assistance of interpreters and anthropologists and (c) the incidence and effects of associated infection, infestation, intoxication, exposure and hygiene hazards. 
Is he able to say whether it is recognised world wide that middle ear infection prevalence in fixed settlements is related to these environmental factors and that money spent on personal medical remedies and surveys is wasted in the long term in such communities and would be better spent on correcting the environmental factors. 
What anthropological advice was sought before the National Health and Medical Research Council recommended, and he approved, that the project was worthy of receiving scarce medical research funds. 
Will he table the relevant documents submitted to him for approval of the project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the August 1978 newsletter of the Environment Council of the Northern Territory that there were 9 public responses to the draft environmental impact statement of Pancontinental Mining Ltd for the extension of the Arnhem Highway, but a response prepared in a Government department was suppressed by a higher authority in that department. 
If so, and if the position is as reported, did those responsible for the suppression of the response inform the officers who prepared it that they could make a personal submission by the required date of 30 June. 
Which officers of what department were concerned in (a) the preparation and (b) the alleged suppression of the material concerned. 
Was the suppression with the knowledge and consent of a minister. 
What action has been taken to make public all relevant expert advice prepared for the Government at public expense. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) What income does the Government derive from sport, including sales tax and proceeds of totalisator administrations. 
What contribution does the Government make to sport from its revenues. 
What were the: 
a ) costs to the Government; and 
returns to revenue from the holding of international sporting competitions in Australia during the last 2 years. 
What are the estimated costs and returns for the next two years. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Do loan repayments now exceed loans for Defence Service Homes. 
If so, will the Government consider widening the qualifications for borrowers to include, progressively, TPI and other categories of pensioners who have mortgage commitments including, in some cases, a second or later home. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Has  Mr A.  E. Lucke informed the Trade Practices Commission of possible breaches of section 50 take over and merger provisions of the Trade Practices Act by Queensland Cement and Lime Co., in purchase of shares in the north Australian Cement Co. 
If so, what action has been taken to investigate and remedy these alleged breaches. 
Can he say whether that agreement provides for a monopoly of State contracts for the Company for 10 years contrary to normal practice. 
Can he also say whether some $18. 4m of Queensland's State Government Insurance money at housing loan rates has been allocated for this venture at Government direction. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) What income does the Government derive from sport, including sales tax and proceeds of totalisator administrations. 
What contribution does the Government make to sport from its revenues. 
What were the: 
a ) costs to the Government; and 
returns to revenue from the holding of international sporting competitions in Australia during the last 2 years. 
What are the estimated costs and returns for the next two years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does it take several weeks to restore benefit payments suspended during investigation of administrative, technical or occupational details. 
Will the Minister ensure prompt action is taken to (a) provide quicker decision-making or (b) maintain pan payments during investigations to avoid the humiliation, fear and hardship which often results. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
What approaches have been made to the Minister or the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and when were they made by (a) the Minister for Health, (b) the Department of Health, (c) the National Health and Medical Research Council, (d) the research personnel concerned and (e) others regarding the (i) planning, (ii) approval or (iii) implementation of the proposed Bathurst and Melville Island otitis survey. 
What advice has been given, and when was it given in response, with particular regards to timing and methods of contact with the subject population to ensure their understanding of the objects of the survey and the possible benefits. 
What co-ordination will be sought between the survey procedure and other surveys and evaluations aimed at assessing different methods of improving environmental factors in health and methods of health care delivery and administration. 
It is of the nature of governments to find scapegoats. For one-party governments, which reign over most of the world, these are usually labelled as foreigners or traitors. For two-party systems like ours, we tend to adopt a very similar approach. One party governments are hardly distinguishable from two-party governments. We pick on Russia, China, Indonesia or the United States as being to blame in various issues and crises round the world. Those in this House, from whichever side we come, who disagree with us on these judgments are seen very often to be in league with those enemies of justice and humanity. So, by definition, we see them as being against Australia. We see something of treachery in those who have a different opinion from ours. Before we pride ourselves as much as we so often tend to do on our justice and humanity as one of the fair nations of this world, let us remember that there is no nation that does not have some blood on its hands. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently referred to the actions of the Kampuchean Government as 'one of the most horrific records in history'. Similar accusations were hurled a short generation earlier at our present allies, Japan and Germany. But let us not forget our own sorry record. The most complete genocide that most of us have ever heard about took place in Tasmania. Similarly, in other areas of Australia whole Aboriginal nations, whole speech groups, whole tribes, whole cultures were wiped out. They disappeared. Let us not forget our sordid adventure in Vietnam for a little bit of paltry kudos. It was said that it was better to fight the Vietnamese there than here; better in their backyard than in ours. Yet events have occurred far closer to these shores when all we have done is make polite noises of protest; for example, when Indonesia promised to have a plebiscite to determine self-government in West Irian or East Timor and then contemptuously decided it was not necessary to hold an internationally supervised plebiscite. We just meekly accept that sort of thing. Yet it is all right for us to go and fight in somebody else's backyard when we can get some sort of flag waving credit for it. The record of our short history is just as bloodstained as the record of any other nation on this earth. So Australia is a guilty nation too. We are all guilty. 
Surely nobody suggests that we ought to be taught a lesson by some sort of black power movement coming down and invading the area? One would think that nobody would make that suggestion, but the Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in Queensland,  Mr Porter,  has warned us that that is what is coming, that if we keep giving land to Aborigines the black power will come and get us. We hear similar predictions that the Indonesians, the Japanese, the Chinese, the Russians and the Cubans are coming. We hear that all sorts of people are coming. Therefore we have to arm ourselves so that we can deter them. They are coming here, of course, to teach us a lesson so that we will behave better next time, so that we will not go on Vietnamese adventures, so that we will not persecute our Aboriginals or perhaps liberate them from our conquest. We are, of course, at this moment undergoing a peaceful conquest by some transnational corporations. I do not think it is too late for us to achieve freedom from that conquest peacefully. 
The main criticism I wish to make about Australia's foreign policy is not based on which side we take or oppose or who should be the fashionable scapegoat in this Parliament because it seems we change partners every three years. Allies in one war become our enemies in the next and vice versa. I do not think that is really what foreign affairs is all about. When the Honourable E. G. Whitlam was Prime Minister we recognised Chile and there was great dissension within the ranks of all parties in this Parliament as to whether this was a wise thing to do. They said that we should not send diplomats there. The then Prime Minister said that if we did not do that the very people we were supposed to be protecting by not recognising the military takeover would be at a disadvantage. He said that if we could maintain a diplomatic presence in Chile the refugees would have a tetter chance of coming to Australia. I think there are many times when we ought to adopt this approach. It is not a matter of posturing and gesturing, of deciding whether or not we should have a diplomatic presence. We ought to communicate even with our worst enemy. There is no human being on the face of this earth who has no good in him. There is nobody so perfect that he does not have some evil in him. 
I think when we start to disagree with a country, before we get to the stage of not talking with that country other than with guns that is the very time we should be sending more diplomats to that country, not pulling them out. We should double our diplomatic representationquadruple it if necessary- and get the talks going before the guns are brought in, not afterwards. One of the previous speakers on this side of the House mentioned the $ 10 billion worth of arms that was sent by the United States of America to Iran in order to keep a presence there and to keep the fight in somebody else's backyard. What he could have added is that not only did this achieve what was the object, in the view of some Americans, of keeping the fight away from their shores, but it also saved America's economy from a pretty bad collapse after the Vietnam war. Something like one quarter of America's gross national product is in the arms industry and it has increased since the Vietnam war. America had to get rid of arms somehow to keep the factories turning. She had to export them. Iran was a very good customer. No doubt the sort of trade which has been concentrated in the Arab region involves the export of very sophisticated arms, some of them so sophisticated that senior military people in America opposed their export in case, for instance, one of their super control planes should fall into the hands of the Soviets. 
This is one of the major reasons for what we see as our big problem today- inflation. Oil prices rose- quadrupled- about the same time that these arms deals were expanding. America paid in the price of oil for the market she got for armaments. The armaments were not only to fight Russians, Jews or whoever Iran might see as an enemy at a particular time, but also to fight her own people. Sophisticated crowd controlriot control- equipment made in America has gone to Iran. Some exquisite torture instruments which were made in America have gone to Iran. Questions have been asked in the United States Congress as to why this sort of thing is permitted. The answers have been very feeble, just as feeble as our protests to Indonesia, which I mentioned earlier. The world is sick mainly in that it makes the wars and the arms race and ends up in fights as the so-called means of solving a dispute, mainly because we refuse to see the alternative. It is an unpalatable alternative. It is a difficult alternative but it is the only alternative. It is the one that history shows is the only alternative to a warlike end to an arms race. That is the alternative of negotiation and the rule of law, if necessary with arbitration, with mediation of some kind. 
Every leader who has been faced with the question and who has answered the question frankly agrees that the ideal cause for which we should be striving is the rule of law to replace war. In other words, there should be an alternative to each sovereign nation standing up at arm's length and saying, 'Don't you dare come here or we will fight you' and then, when the other side does the same thing, finding some excuse, some provocation, to start a little bit of a warning or punishment or police action and so provoking a similar action on the first side. That is what has happened between Vietnam and China. Each country accuses the other of making the first incursion, of firing the first shot. Instead of doing that, which we did in World War I- and which, if we read the German records, we find that we did in World War II- instead of this sort of stand-off sabre rattling which leads to war as the ultimate solution, we should start sitting around the table before instead of afterwards. It is not just an idealistic, airy fairy socialist dream that this can happen. Winston Churchill, not noted for his radical teachings, said after World 
War II that he had never known a war that could not have been solved by negotiation. 
The honourable member can say yes, but such action requires goodwill on both sides. I have tried to say that the goodwill is on both sides and that there is also ill-will on both sides. As long as we show our ill-will and that is the only side that our opponents see, we are not doing all that we can to ensure that negotiation takes place before the fight and that we sit around the table first and not after everybody has started to lick his wounds. When any leader is faced with this problem he agrees, as I said, that the rule of law is the alternative to war. The difficulty is to get a rule of law which will be acceptable to the antagonists; to get some sort of world authority, world court, world police or world legislature which both the Soviet Union and the United States of America will recognise as being sufficiently impartial to warrant them surrendering that much of their national sovereignty that they will accept a decision, a compromise, short of an armed solution, which nowadays is no solution. 
Unfortunately, although all the leaders of the world admit that this is the ideal answer, when the acid is put on them and they are asked: 'Why do you not teach your people this? Why do you not campaign to have this as your accepted foreign policy in your country?', the answer always is that the other side would not do that. One gets this answer from Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union. Yet there are grass roots movements in communist countries- in Eastern Europe- in the West and in the Third World which say that this is what ought to happen, that there ought to be an elected world legislature with the power to pass laws on matters in dispute between nations. If we do not trust an elected government to be impartial- we do not trust our governments now to be impartial- on sensitive matters there could be a requirement for a two-thirds majority. If there were disagreement in the United Nations General Assembly or Security Council, a threequarters majority could be required. The people of this planet place such a high value on peace that in most cases a three-quarters majority would be obtained if the elected people accurately represented the people of the planet. 
The honourable member for Holt interjects that enforcement would be impossible. Enforcement requires only that people recognise the police force concerned. They do not recognise the police force in Queensland when it is being given stupid orders by the Premier. They do not recognise the police force in Iran when it is enforcing tyrannical rule. But if the leaders of the nations will teach their people to accept an international police force and the people will accept it, any tyrant who goes against it could be arrested, demoted or exiled. There are any number of ways to stop a man from raising an illegal army, whether it be  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  somebody in the southern states of the United States,  Mr Hider  or anybody else. In foreign policy we ought to stress this one positive alternative to the policy we are following. 
-by leave- I join the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  in commending the Committee's report on Aboriginal health to the House and to the public. Like him, I hope that the report will be acted upon more effectively than previous reports of its kind have been. Like him, I stress that one of the major glaring deficiencies in the field of Aboriginal health is the physical environment- so much so that, as the  Chairman  pointed out, the figures collected in Western Australia indicate that the incidence of conditions related to the physical environment treated in hospital is eight times higher for Aborigines than for non-Aborigines. Let me explain what is meant by the term 'physical environment'. It means situations about which governments can do something. It does not mean only the provision of fresh water supplies, the elimination of the sanitary pan system and the improvement of housing, although it does mean that to a considerable extent. 
I stress the Opposition's concern about the fact that although in the last Budget there was a slight increase in one aspect of funding for Aboriginal affairs- namely, housing- there was a decrease in real terms in the funding of other aspects. In spite of that increase in the allocation for Aboriginal housing, if expenditure for this purpose continues to be allocated at that rate it will take 30 years to make up the back log of housing for 
Aborigines that is required today. That backlog is getting worse year by year. At the present rate of spending the backlog will get worse and not better because houses will deteriorate and Aboriginal communities will increase in number at a faster rate than the rate at which the housing is being provided. So I stress that as far as the major environmental health problem is concerned, this Government has a major responsibility to regard this problem in the way indicated by the  Chairman.  He said that it is a problem that would not be tolerated in the general community and is one which should not and must not be tolerated for a deprived section of our community. Australia is judged not by what we say about Malaysian aeroplanes or about the export of merino rams or about almost any other question that has to do with defence or foreign affairs. We are judged in other nations by the way we treat our ethnic minorities, particularly our indigenous people. That judgment is that Australia does not care, Australia is racist, Australia is discriminating. I am most disappointed in recent statements from the Department and from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  which indicate that the priorities remain not in favour of Aborigines but in favour of mining.  Senator Chaney  released a Press statement which said: 
While mining is important to Australia, some consideration should be given to the Aborigines, who have been kicked around for so long. 
That does not reassure me that the Government has changed its priorities, and I think it is high time that it did so. The World Health Organisation, along with many other authorities and most people who have studied the environmental problems of deprived communities, particularly indigenous minorities, has said that it is essential that those communities determine their health care priorities and take a major part in planning and decision-making. This report confirms and supports that view, but still it is not being carried out. Almost daily, and certainly weekly, objections are coming on to my desk, and I have no doubt on to the Minister's desk, about how Aborigines are being required to tolerate more bureaucratic interference, not from Aboriginal organisations but from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of Health and others. We have to start reversing that trend. We have to start putting consumers in charge of health services, not only for Aborigines but for everyone. Professionalism has gone mad, bureaucracy has gone mad, to an extent where one can say almost that doctors are a health hazard and health departments are a health hazard. We have to start getting back to the consumer. 
I have one regret about the wording of the report. I was unable to attend the final meeting, but I think that the members of the Committee would have accepted this criticism. Whilst in the body of the report there is stress on the need for land rights and the central importance of land rights for Aborigines to regain their self-identity, which is essential to achieving a healthy life, a healthy community and a healthy individual, that was not listed among the principal recommendations of the Committee. I want to put on record, and I believe that this view is shared by the other members of the Committee, that we see land rights as being essential to the ability of Aborigines to return to their source of spiritual refreshment and social cohesion, that is, the land with which they identify in a very complex and important manner. They must have the ability to control that land to an extent that will enable them to restore their ancient rituals, which reassure them of their relationship and theninterdependence with their traditional land, and in many cases with the land of their ancestors, even when they have long departed from it because of the pressures of the white occupation of their nation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Did  Mr K.  Martin, Regional Director, Eastern Area of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs state on or about 12 May 1 978 at North Sydney at a meeting with other officers of the Department and officers of the Aboriginal Lands Trust of New South Wales, that the Trust was crippling or strangling his office's administrative capacity with reports, funding applications or paperwork generally and such an active policy could result in financial strangulation of the Trust, or words to that effect. 
Did  Mr Martin  withdraw this statement on a request by  Mr Ian  Kingsley, Administrator of the Trust. 
Have some communities been omitted from funding of essential services this year at the same time as other communities have received direct funding in lieu of funds made available to them as they were last year through the Trust. 
Have earlier undertakings that no discrimination would be exercised against the Trust for town maintenance and public utilities funding which this year averages $782 per Trust managed dwelling, compared with $2,093 per selfmanaged dwelling, been dishonoured. 
Did  Mr J.  H. Imre write to the Trust  Chairman  on 20 September 1978, stating that any suggestion by himself or other officers of the Department that the Trust did not spend rental income from the La Perouse Reserve on maintenance or improvements was unintentional and withdrawn unconditionally. 
Has the Trust broken off communications with the Department until adequate explanation of funding cuts is given. 
Will he ensure that (a) communities suffering misappropriation of funds or other difficulties are given the option of funding through the Trust if they prefer such an arrangement and (b) the Trust has full and frank explanations of funding changes and the role of Government policy in bringing about those changes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
What proportion of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs' newsletter is produced by or for Aboriginal authors or organisations. 
Will the Minister make a section or supplement of the newsletter available as an organ of (a) The National Aboriginal Council, (b) the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and/or (c) the Council for Aboriginal Development. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Did the motor cycle on which his son was televised performing duties on the property called 'Nareen' bear a number plate with the prefix Z. 
If so, does this indicate the ownership of the motor cycle. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Has the Yarrabah community applied for selfmanagement under Federal law; if so, when and how. 
What steps have been taken to process the application. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the cases of interference with telegrams by officers of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement which were cited by  Ms Lorna  Lippman in her paper 'Discrimination Against Aborigines by the Queensland Government' distributed at a seminar at Monash University on 25 September 1 977; if so, when and how. 
) Has he investigated these cases; if so, with what result. 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has put to the House a modest proposal which seeks to convince us that the Government really has done something about this flag of freedom flying at the masthead for Queenslanders. That flag of freedom is not recognised by the Aboriginal people. They have not been involved in the negotiations which produced the lease and they have not been involved in the negotiations that the Minister speaks of as going on now. They have never been involved in any of the negotiations which the Minister described as being carried out in a spirit of co-operation as distinct from confrontation. What is happening is that the Federal Government is appeasing or falling over backwards to please the Queensland Government. It is not implementing its legislation or the legislation of the Labor Government to remove discrimination. There are still people at Aurukun, Mornington Island and all the other State settlements in Queensland who are suffering under the heel of an apartheid-type rule and dictatorship which was imposed on them without consultation with them or their democratically chosen leaders or representatives. This has resulted in such things as a manager appointed by bureaucrats in Brisbane having the right to keep people off their traditional homeland, the land on which they were born and the land which traditionally belongs to their tribal ancestors. This prevents Aboriginal people visiting each other and sending messages to each other by telephone, telegram or post. It affects their right to travel to town, to call ambulances or to seek medical care. All these rights can be vetoed by a white manager who has nothing in common with the Aboriginal people, who is not chosen or employed by them, and cannot be sacked by them. He is a civil servant in the service of  Mr Killoran,  the Director of the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in Queensland, a man whose name is not one that Aboriginals respect, and that is putting it mildly. 
Not only is there a lack of self-determination in the matter of where Aboriginals are entitled to live or with whom they can communicate, but also there are many other human rights denied Aboriginals in Queensland. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Has the hostel acquired in North Rockhampton for Aboriginals reverted to a derelict state from being a well patronised, well kept caravan park. 
What proportion of the sum allocated for developing the site was used in architect's fees and what sum was spent on other items. 
When will the units be made available for the homeless Aborigines sleeping daily in Rockhampton. 
Can he say (a) how long it took to provide emergency accommodation for illegal migrants in Darwin in the last 12 months and (b) how many were accommodated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Why has the Government curtailed the resources of the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service which, like other similar services, provides essential services and results in long-term savings to other government-funded instrumentalities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) Has infant mortality among Northern Territory Aborigines risen to 75 per 1000 live births since 1 975. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an allegation in the publication  Farewell to Alms,  Vol. 2, No. 2, 1978, that the Social Development Branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has consistently refused to provide residual welfare services on reserves as distinct from services at Darwin, Katherine, Gove, Alangula, Tennant Creek or Alice Springs; if so, is there any substance in the allegation. 
Is there evidence that poverty contributes to high infant mortality. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) What (a) are the guidelines and principles upon which members of the Aboriginal Development Agency are to be chosen and (b) is the relationship of the Agency and its members to other (i) statutory and (ii) voluntary (A) Aboriginal and (B) other organisations and instrumentalities. 
Will the Agency have the powers of the Asian or Papua New Guinean Development Banks; if not, why not. 
Will the Agency have an annually updated minimum guaranteed allocation for a minimum of 3 years from each budget. 
Will the Agency have the power to raise funds other than from annual appropriations; if so, how. 
What funding levels have been set and how are these to be raised, guaranteed and audited. 
When will legislation be introduced and any decisions implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
What has been disclosed by the monitoring of orientation courses for teachers at Aboriginal schools as referred to in the Minister's reply to Question No. 1756 of 24 November 1978 (Hansard, page 3511). 
-I move: 
That, in the opinion of the House, the Government has repudiated its policy and legislation on Aboriginal affairs when these clash with powerful pastoral, mining or State Government interests. 
For  Vh  years this Government has persisted in its subservience to the sectional interests of privilege and wealth. Nowhere is this more evident than in Aboriginal affairs policy, particularly in Western Australia and Queensland. The Government has clearly refused to use the constitutional powers available to it against such oppressive legislation as that currently endorsed by governments in those States. Too often we have had to listen to  the Government singing its own praises. We have had to listen to the shameless distortions of the truth which climaxed last November when the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs patted himself on the back for five grotesquely misrepresented so-called achievements in Aboriginal affairs in 316 years. Aboriginal Australians have suffered the humiliations of being the victims of this Government's poorly camouflaged contradictions between policy and practice. 
Aboriginals have stated many times the importance of their relationship with and their attitude towards their land. They have patiently explained that it is inseparable from their culture, their self-respect, their identity as individuals and as communities related to all life forms, land forms, weather changes and the wider universe. They thought and hoped that the Government would understand that. But the Government, by its actions, and despite the fine phrases it promotes in policy documents and in statements by Ministers, has demonstrated that either it cannot understand or that it does not want to understand. 
In recent weeks, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has developed a disturbing train of thought. He thinks that land rights are little more than a slogan and that claims are made- I quote from his address to the Frankston Uniting Church- 'without regard to the legal and political realities of the Australian Federation'. With respect, I put it to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who represents the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in this chamber, that it is his Government that is unaware of the political realities in the Aborigines' fight to regain their land. Let us take Western Australia as an example. I am sure that I do not have to spell out to honourable members the political reality of the current fight by the Aboriginal people in Western Australia for the basic right to vote. Nor do I need to point out the political and judicial reality of illegal actions by the Western Australian Liberal Party to deny an equal voice to Aborigines in an election for the seat of the Kimberleys. Nor should I have to spell out again that a referendum in 1967 overwhelmingly gave the Commonwealth the responsibility of ensuring the welfare and rights of Aboriginal Australians by giving it power to make laws concerning those rights- a responsibility which this Governnent continues to evade, with the excuse that the States also retain such legislative powers. The Federal Administration has subscribed to international obligations to protect human and minority rights. It cannot, before the bar of public opinion, pass the buck- not even a few cents of it- to the States. Rights are not for sale and nor is federation a device for evading duties by splitting them between different levels of government. 
We have heard much of the Federal Government's attempts to restore integrity to Aboriginal people by returning their land and encouraging initiatives. But how can this happen when we force on them local government administrations which have no relationship to the activities that the Aborigines see themselves as performing as Aborigines and in deciding and correlating in Aboriginal ways. The Fraser Government has refused to fund those land councils which Aborigines themselves set up because it argues that the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the National Aboriginal Conference have the necessary funds to do the job. But this Government has down-graded the NAC. Only one meeting a year is authorised by the Government. We now learn from Appropriation Bill (No. 3) that the NAC is to lose $323,000 of its original $505,000 allocation for this year. Whilst the efforts of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission are heroic, it is powerless to purchase land when certain vested State government, mining or pastoral interests would prefer to keep that land within what they call sound land use planning guidelines. In other words, a fast buck comes before cultural survival. Questions in relation to preferential treatment to Mount Isa Mines Ltd over some of the islands, the McArthur River and Bing Bong sections of the Borroloola land claim in the Northern Territory remain unanswered. The deceitful secrecy of the Federal Government has not been explained. 
In Western Australia, the Australian Land Fund Commission is hampered by hostility from the Western Australian Lands Department. The Commission's tender for Laurell Downs Station on behalf of the Junjuwah Community was unsuccessful, even though its purchase offer was $5,000 above the highest bid received. The injustice is even greater when one considers that the community wished to use the small piece of land as a training centre for pastoral and agricultural work. The land went instead to a neighbouring pastoral station, Quanbun Downs. A request by the Lombadina Community for an area of vacant Crown land adjoining their reserve still has not been granted, even though the land formerly held temporary reserve status and the community has vastly improved that land by sinking bores, et cetera. 
The Federal Government also plays its role in restricting the Commission. In successive years, funds available to the Commission have been frozen and invested. The Government now has established a tradition by which the Commission is penalised financially for funds unspent in a previous year. Moneys allocated to the Commission are now down by 79.5 per cent in real terms since the 1975-76 Labor Budget. The Queensland Premier has made his mark on the Commission just as much as the Western Australian Premier. But let me quote what the Western Australian Premier, who is a member of the same political party as the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, had to say. He said: 
The Aboriginal people, whether as a race or as tribes or as individuals, do not have by reason or their aboriginality any legal claim to the territorial land of Western Australia. Nor have the Aboriginal people any moral claim of the exclusive right to the possession of the lands of this State. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have agreed to limit my remarks at this time so that a reply can be made by a member of the Government. However, I point out that there is much more that I could say. 
In June and July 1977 the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sought from  Mr Shann  Turnbull, of Management and Investment Services Ltd of Sydney, a report concerning the impact of mining royalties. The report was delivered on 27 October 1977. A report on the economic development of Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory was to be followed by a later report on how the money flow might be regulated to increase community self-sufficiency. 
The 1977 report contained four basic conclusions. The first was that revenues accruing to committees without accountability would jeopardise traditional life in undesirable ways. The second conclusion was that in the longer term, however, those revenues would enable economic self-sufficiency and self-determination in cultural development and integration with little need of government services. In fact,  Mr Turnbull  suggested that as a result of this socio-economic development the Department of Aboriginal Affairs would not be needed. He suggested further that Territory-wide political and economic selfmanagement would be rapidly forced upon these Aboriginal communities in such a way that they would be led to set up new institutions administering these royalties, rents and so on, and that these revenues would at that stage in fact shield all Aboriginal cultures in the Territory from the intrusions of white society. Therefore, although he argued that initially there would be cultural damage, eventually there would be cultural security and cultural integration as a result of such revenues. 
The third point I took from his conclusions was that the revenues would shield Aboriginal cultures from white society intrusions. The fourth point was that the Northern Territory economy as a whole would benefit from the royalties far more than they would from all other resource development combined. That was a very significant conclusion. It goes against the sort of so-called white backlash that we are hearing of increasingly from the Northern Territory. We are told: 'You are going to create black millionaires and you are going to impoverish the whites of the Northern Territory'.  Mr Turnbull  argued the very reverse; that the cash flow channelled through Aboriginal communities for community purposes would be the major boost to the Northern Territory economy. 
He said that the ownership reversion requirements in the mining lease arrangements and agreements would make the Northern Territory self-sufficient without the need for any State taxes so that the Northern Territory would become a business and retirement haven. He suggested that Aboriginal mining royalties would make the Northern Territory the most affluent part of Australia- that it would have no State taxes and that it would be a business, retirement and tax haven. He said that all Territory residents eventually would have sufficient income to live without work or welfare if they so chose. That, again, is a highly significant statement. He suggested that people would be able to exist- he was not talking only about Aboriginals but everybody in the Northern Territory- without doing any work at all if they so chose just on the proceeds of these royalties. He said that Aboriginal values and traditions would then be widely recognised and that whites who no longer were required to work would suffer cultural conflicts in that they would be faced with the failure, as it were, of the work ethic. 
The report, however, recommended that some urgent steps be taken. These steps have not been taken in the interim by the Government. It recommended, for example, that an urgent education program should be undertaken to explain to land councils, Aboriginal councils and Aboriginal associations both the implications of the conclusions reached and the implications for them of the phasing out of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs over perhaps 10 or 15 years in favour of clans, tribes or whatever. He suggested that financial accountability to federal authorities should be replaced by social accountability to Aboriginal organisations which would take over those government functions. I believe that this is a very healthy suggestion. It is suggesting the replacement of the unwieldy and centralised bureaucracy which now allegedly administers Aboriginal affairs, to the great frustration of Aboriginals and their community, by selfmanagement, which is the policy of all major parties in this country but which, in this regard at least, has not been carried out. Nor do we see any steps towards it. 
So far we have seen no evidence that any department is accepting responsibility for coordinating the education and advisory services for the design and setting up of information systems as checks and balances in selfmanagement, as the report recommends. There is no sign that the Government is assisting the recommended integration and institutional structuring of the Aboriginal political economy. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has influenced such organisation only in the direction of buying off key Aboriginal leaders in the Northern Land Council and allowing the same sort of buying off of the traditional leadership at Nabarlek to be done by mining interests. Far from phasing out the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, he has directed it to intervene illegally at Maningrida. He has given preference to mining firms in the acquisition of the traditional land of the Borroloola people. In obtaining the Ranger agreement by coercion he has instigated breaches of the law and of normal meeting procedures by the Northern Land Council.  Mr Turnbull  quotes Aboriginal attitudes to land, to community, to corroboree and to belief, which bind together the Aboriginal world. He shows how Aborigines and their culture are destroyed by white economy, white industries and white social customs introduced on a cold cash and contact basis. 
The Opposition is not opposed to Aborigines agreeing to mining on their land as such. We agree with many of the reservations that  Mr 
Turnbull has expressed. Our reasons for opposing uranium mining have little to do with the Bill before us and were well spelt out in a previous debate this evening. The Bill before us proposes to tax royalties from the mining not only of uranium but also of aluminium, manganese, other ores and minerals generally. This will be done not only in the Northern Territory. I objected when this proposal was first announced and in this regard I wish to quote from a report on page 1 of the  Northern Territory News  of 2 1 July 1978. The report stated: 
The Northern Land Council chairman believes the new Federal tax on Aboriginal mining royalties sets a precedent for taxation of compensation payments. 

 Mr Galarrwuy Yunupingu said he wonders why Aborigines are the first people to have their compensation payments taxed. 
The Shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr Everingham,  today described yesterday's announcement as an outrage. 
He said the Government had decided that Aboriginals, whose lands were interfered with by mining companies, should benefit from a fixed royalty on profits from the mining operations. 
The decision to tax those royalties is yet another blatant attempt by the Government to try to reduce its budget deficit with backdoor methods,'  Dr Everingham  said. 

 Dr Everingham said: 'As usual the Fraser Government is seeking to hit those people with the least muscle to fight back. 
While Aboriginals are expected to pay tax on money which they were led to believe was tax free the government is busily handing out massive concessions to foreign mining companies. ' 
We still stand by those objections. Let us look at the miserable level of these royalties paid in recognition of the lack of any other adequate compensation for the conquest of Aboriginals and their displacement from their land, for their social disruption and, in many cases, for their despairing dependence on acquisitive white society, The demoralised and decimated Yirrkala people, whose territory at Gove has been occupied to provide us with saucepans, soft drink cans, milk bottle tops, aeroplanes and other aluminium products, get a magnificent  2'A  per cent royalty. Thanks to the insistence of Anglican missionaries, the Groote Eylandt people get a princely  Vh  per cent. These sums are now to be taxed. For the first time 10-year-old agreements are to be subject to tax. The reason that this Bill has been brought in is that during those 10 years the taxation authorities have not been able to find out who they should tax for these royalties. 
We heard during the previous debate this evening that the Peko-EZ organisation is not to be taxed at all except by way of payroll tax and State taxes. It is to be exempt from tax. But the Aboriginals who get royalties will not be exempt, although those royalties are going to non-profit Aboriginal organisations for the benefit of Aboriginal communities. After costly negotiations, which incidentally used up a great deal of such royalties that accrued to the Northern Land Council, and after months of delay caused by the mining companies, which were cheeky enough to blame these delays on the Aborigines, the Ranger royalties were set at a much higher level. I repeat that after very expensive legal negotiations they were set at 4'/4 per cent. This was after what I referred to previously as the illegal conduct of meetings, the breach of legal obligations to traditional owners by the Northern Land Council and the breach of obligations to the Oenpelli people and their communities. 
It was said by Stephen Zorn, one of the major consultants in these negotiations for the Northern Land Council, that one of the reasons he was prepared to accede to what he described as miserably low royalties was that he had managed to have written into the Ranger agreement considerable amounts to be provided for environmental protection, which he estimated would bring the total to something like 9  'A  per cent. Of course, environmental protection is not just for Aborigines and the royalties paid will still be far short of some of those paid in other countries. The minimum royalty paid to Indians in Canada for mining on their land is 5 per centhigher than any of the four rates that I have cited- and they also get other material benefits. 
The Papua New Guineans at Bougainville objected to terms negotiated by Australia and some of them- illiterate people- laid down in front of bulldozers. I think that got them about 20 per cent. At the moment Papua New Guinea is not giving tax free status to mining companies, as we are doing with Peko-EZ. Papua New Guinea is putting on a 33% per cent company tax and also a super profits tax. This is a trend round the world that Australia is still resisting. Mind you, the firms in Papua New Guinea are still making profits. One is opening another copper mine. The Papua New Guinea Government has taxed any returns of more than 20 per cent of total funds employed and is taxing at 70 per cent all earnings made after the payment of company tax. Not content with whittling down royalties by comparison with the compensation paid to other dispossessed indigenous people round the world, the Government of Australia now wants to cut the net royalty after tax to 2.34 per cent at Gove, 3.276 per cent at Groote Eylandt, 3.976 per cent at Ranger and 4.209 per cent at Nabarlek. That would produce figures something like this: The $400,000 already paid to the Northern Land Council will not be taxed, but the Northern Land Council will be taxed on the $200,000 to be paid annually through the Ranger agreement, the $300,000 to be paid annually during the construction phase, the $150,000 to be paid annually for Northern Land Council costs during the construction phase, and the  4lA  per cent royalty on the net production proceeds. The exact amount of that will vary according to what those proceeds are, and that will depend on how much uranium ore is sold and on the world price- the selling price. 
If only 3,000 tonnes is mined annually, which is half the capacity planned for, at $30 per lb, that will work out- according to  Mr Zorn's  figures- at $8.5m. At the other extreme, if 6,000 tonnes is mined annually, at $40 per lb, that will amount to $22.25m. The tax will vary accordingly between $544,000, or a bit over half a million dollars, and $ 1.424m yearly. At Nabarlek no tax will be payable on the $735,000 already paid, but tax will be payable on the amount of $800,000 in the first year and again in the second year, $900,000 in the third year, $500,000 in the fourth year plus any balance of the 4l/i per cent of the net uranium value produced. 
There is a story about creating Aboriginal millionaires. In fact, even the highest estimate indicates that at most this will produce $600 per Aboriginal in the Northern Territory. This money is spread over the Northern Territory; it does not all go to the locals. That amount is substantially less than the Government now spends on Aboriginal affairs. I have no doubt that the amount spent on Aboriginal affairs will be whittled away further, as has happened in the past three years, depending upon how much the Aborigines get in royalties. It would be well within the capacity of existing budgets for the total amount which the Aborigines will receive in royalties- about $12 a week a head- to be cut out entirely from Aboriginal funding. If that amount is enough to feed the smallest Aboriginal, I think we are being a little bit niggardly. The Opposition rejects that miserly attitude. We also seek an assurance from the Government that the money will not be flung contemptuously to unprepared communities. If the Government is to force that tax on those people who mostly subsist below the poverty line, let those taxes be used to provide some backup expertise to advise the Aborigines on how to get the best long term result from that money. 
Some of the money no doubt will be spent on plonk. Even though it will not be paid to individuals but to communities, some of it will be diverted, just as it is in every white administration, from the Parliament down to each government department. No doubt some of it will go on booze. Some of it will be spent on housing, some on cordials, coffee, cornflakes or cars, charter flights or beef cattle, fencing or fishing boats. Whatever it is spent on, I have no doubt that it will be spent as efficiently as the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has managed to spend it over the years. As much of it will benefit the Aborigines as does now when most of the money allocated to Aboriginal affairs goes to white bureaucrats. But eventually, slowly, it will effectively be administered for Aborigines by Aborigines. 
Less of the money will pass directly into white people's pockets. But as  Mr Shann  Turnbull pointed out- the businessman engaged by the Minister to talk about the impact of those royalties- it will not be long before the money is in the pockets of the white people anyway because all of those consumer goods and capital goods which I have mentioned will not be provided by Aborigines paying other Aborigines for the goods, but mainly by Aborigines paying white people for the goods. White people will get the money which passes through those Aboriginal communities. That will have a multiplier effect in creating prosperity, mainly for white people once it has passed the first spending stage. 
As in most consumer societies, the rich rapidly will get richer in the Territory. If governments do not intervene the poor will not only get poorer but also more decimated, demoralised, depressed and desperate. Unfortunately the people who will determine some of that spending are not interested in seeing that Aborigines are protected from the profit-seeking of people who go there to sell plonk, to pressurise people into the consumer society and to buy some of the items which I mentioned, which they can live without, whether it be cordials, or cornflakes or the charter flights. Some of the money will be wasted. Let us be ready to help and to protect the Aborigines and to put some curbs on the exploiters. 
We must be able to do better at Ranger than we did at Weipa, where the net effect has been mainly slow cultural genocide. We should learn from examples overseas. As the  AM  program reported on 27 November last, the American Indians have four-fifths of the uranium reserves, one-third of the low sulphur coal reserves and one-tenth of the oil and gas reserves in the 
United States of America. They have not had adequate information about the impact on them of developing those resources. A Harvard study found that the Navajos, one of the most organised tribes, get $2.5 million a year from coal at Black Mesa, Arizona. They run the power generators, using the coal. But Arizona State collects from them $10 million a year in taxes. The Navajos get about one-quarter of what the State gets from their mine and their power generation. They control the roads and the rivers, but their land is polluted. They still suffer poverty and under-development. They lack the strength to fight for their legal rights to get what others get in the short or long term. 
In the Melbourne  Age  of 8 January it is reported that on more than 40 reservations Indians own one-sixth of America's energy resources, two million hectares of commercial forests, 16 million hectares of the poorer grazing land, which is in demand when beef prices rise, and one million hectares of crop land. But their average life span has risen to only 65.1 years, compared with America's average of 70 years. Nearly half of them are out of work. Their rate of teenage suicides is 100 times the rate of suicide of white teenagers. Incomes on reservations average one-quarter of the national average. Over two-fifths of them are problem drinkers, compared with one in 17 nationwide. More than half, or twice the national average, drop out before finishing high school. Despite this, birth rates have stopped falling. Indians are becoming more politically active and successful in European pursuits. Dozens of tribes have instituted over 100 law suits which have had a high success rate in restoring dishonoured treaties, particularly with regard to land ownership. 
We should not only conclude treaties of commitment to compensate conquered Aborigines, but also we should ensure that compensation paid is lasting in its effect and not a mere fireworks display for a part of one generation. Of the royalties that we leave them, 30 per cent will go to the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account, 40 per cent to the land councils, which could become vehicles for self-determination if profitdominated administrations would help instead of harassing them, and 30 per cent to traditional communities through councils and associations which will need all the help, communication, interpreting and trans-cultural skills that we can muster, to plan, invest and provide wisely for the time in a generation or so, when the mines run out. 
We oppose the Bill and we ask for a moral and financial commitment by the Government to its victims. The Northern Territory government, having blackmailed the Federal Government into getting a 1  Va  per cent royalty on uranium, ought to do its share, as its economy receives a boost from Aborigines' mineral royalties which it hopes, as  Mr Shann  Turnbull has predicted, will make it the richest, lowest taxed region in Australia. Far from resenting Aboriginal incomes, the Northern Territory Government should welcome them. There is no more widespread myth among know-it-all old hands in the Territory than the myth that illiterate Aborigines average bigger incomes than do unemployed whites. They see the odd gambling winners driving big cars and splashing money about, but they do not see so many of the losers who perhaps are forced to go bush to forage in order to survive. Nor do they see so many of the defeated, who give up trying to get into the work force for even the short time required to qualify for unemployment benefit. Some of them have not had work for even that long and are getting no benefit. Rather, they are living on the goodwill of their group. 
The Territory built its wealth mainly, perhaps, on cattle, using Aborigines as slave labour and turning their abundant land into grazing leases. Now many of these grazing interests want to spurn station hands, evict their families and turn them into parasitic fringe dwellers, while the white get-up-and-go miners deface their land for perhaps a score of years and then withdraw, leaving pollution and plonk as their legacies to the ancient conservers of that land. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to remove all reference to taxation on mineral royalties for Aboriginal organisations'. 
We also intend to oppose the second Bill which is being considered in this cognate debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Braithwaite)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at 11.6 p.m. 
I wish to correct a few of the observations that were made. by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  who suggested that when I was referring to a report by  Mr Shann  Turnbull I ignored and neglected recommendations contained in a second report by the same gentleman. The honourable member suggested that under the figures produced by  Mr Turnbull  money need not be provided by any government department for health, education or other services for Aboriginals; that, in fact, there would be no need for taxes- all services could be paid for from the proceeds of royalties. Last night I referred to that suggestion, which was intimated in the first report of  Mr Turnbull.  But I referred also to the figures produced by  Mr Stephen  Zorn, who was mainly concerned in the negotiations when the rate of royalty payment to Aboriginal organisations was agreed upon.  His  figures differ greatly from those of Shann Turnbull. He suggests that on the figures available to him- the mining of 3,000 to 6,000 tonnes of uranium ore at $30 to $40 a tonne- the Aborigines of the Northern Territory could expect to receive between $160 and $600 each per annum, which is less- 
He arrived at a percentage, and it was agreed to. The figures that he produced showed that a few hundred dollars- at the most $ 12 a week- would be received by each Aborigine. That is not as much as the allowances that most of us receive when we are out of work. 

 - Mr Turnbull, as the honourable member for Dundas suggested before the suspension of the sitting, said that there would be available so much money that there would be no need for any taxes to be levied- it would provide for health, education, roads and other services. I dispute that. I believe that the figures of Stephen Zorn are far more realistic. I believe that the amount involved will be far below the sum that is presently provided in the Northern Territory for services to Aborigines. I suggested last night, in the course of the debate, that if the Government felt so disposed it would be possible for it to eliminate a corresponding proportion of the money that it now spends on services for Aborigines, as Aboriginal organisations will be getting royalties. I do not think that  Mr Zorn's  figures were unrealistic. I believe that the sum that will be obtained under the formulas set out in the existing legislation will come nowhere near paying for all of the services that 
Aborigines now receive let alone, as  Mr Turnbull  would suggest, all of the other public services provided in the Northern Territory. What is more, I do not see the royalties as providing adequate compensation. If these royalties, in themselves, provided good and sufficient compensation for all of the suffering of Aborigines at the hands of the Western commercialised society of whites, we would not be quibbling about 6.4 per cent of it being taken away for taxes. 
The honourable member asks what would be adequate. He has studied this matter in great depth and knows very well what would be adequate. He has made a submission to the Remuneration Tribunal, which sets his rate of pay. I wonder how many submissions he has made on behalf of the Aborigines. I consider it would be adequate if the Aborigines were allowed to make decisions for themselves as to what they need. The first suggestion that they made was that they would be happier without any royalties at all, without any mining. That suggestion was rejected, not by Aborigines, not by the Northern Land Council, not by any of their legal advisers, not by the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account, or any of the organisations that will be collecting royalties on their behalf; it was rejected by white bureaucrats- administrators- and the Government whose members sit opposite. That was one of the propositions that would have been acceptable to Aborigines, but the cost was too much for the white people. 
Another proposition they advanced was that they get 1 5 per cent of the royalties, which is the level that is normally and usually accepted by the white rulers of the United States of Amercia when they take minerals from land owned by tribal Indians with whom they have made treaties of commitment- treaties signed by both the tribal leaders and the white rulers. In this country we do not have such treaties, yet years ago our Senate passed unanimously a motion which stated that the Aboriginals and Torres Strait island people deserved compensation for deprivation of their land, culture and social structure, which are inextricably bound one with the other. Every time a mining project intrudes on Aboriginal land, additional destruction occurs of their culture, structure, indentity, dignity and self-regard. 
We bought Ranger on terms which we said would be negotiated following the principles of the Fox report, which we set out. Those principles have not been met. The principles of the Fox report were sold out by the land rights legislation, which was emasculated in 1976 by the change of government. They were sold out again by the Northern Land Council, which refused to carry out its obligations under that emasculated Act because of pressure from Ministers who sit opposite, who went to Galarrwuy Yunipingu and said: 'Sell it or else you will not have any Northern Land Council, or any other land councils and you will not have any legislation. You are not going to go to arbitration. Sign or lose the lot'. That is how it was done. 
Do not give me that gaff. The Government bought Ranger and sold out the Aborigines. The people who sold them out, the people who leaned on them, are the people who sit on the opposite side of the House and talk great pious hypocrisy about land rights, human rights and Aboriginal culture and then torpedo it whenever there is a mineral, pastoral, State government or Northern Territory government interest which says: 'We cannot afford those blacks; we want the minerals at any price'. They want at any price the minerals which they can sell to the Australian people and make it look as though they are being fair. This Bill is a bit of the back-door treachery that torpedoes any concession that was originally given to Aboriginals. It is all very well to say that taxation was provided for 10 years ago when Gove and Groote Eylandt commenced to be mined. That taxation was never mooted, never spelt out, until last year. It is to apply to Aboriginal organisations, nonprofit welfare organisations. That is what the Government is taxing. It is not taxing private entrepreneurs. It is taxing welfare organisations that have miserable income far less than is needed for Aboriginal welfare in the Northern Territory. Honourable members opposite ought to be ashamed of themselves. There is no morality, no consistency and no honour in the Bill before the House. 
-In summing up the Opposition's objections to this Bill and the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2), which have been debated cognately, I say that it would have been much simpler to have allowed the points that we wished to be made, of which there are not many left, to go forward without the interruptions that have occurred- the sort of thing that has been occurring in the last 24 hours- as these Bills would have been well behind us by now. Every argument that has been raised by the Government to counter the Opposition's arguments has been unsubstantiated. In particular, I have been misrepresented as arguing for money as something that could compensate the Aboriginals or would be preferable to the other values that Aboriginals have lost by accepting the mining agreement that they had forced on them. 
I made it clear in the second reading debate that it is not the money that Aboriginals want. Shann Turnbull 's report was not asking for money. Certainly it was claiming that an extravagant amount of money would be available, but I do not accept that. But one thing which he clearly recommended to the Government a couple of years ago, and on which the Government has not shown any sign of action, was that the Aboriginal people should have been prepared for that money. If one wants to destroy people who do not know how to handle money, one gives the money to them without preparation. That was the central theme with which I started and concluded my speech. I want to make it clear that any suggestion that I am arguing in a niggardly way for more money as a solution to these problems is very far from the truth and is a gross misrepresentation. 
Damage will be done to Aboriginal people, their culture, their communities and to individuals, by the mining operations. The amount of so-called compensation is niggardly and insufficient. It will not compensate for the damage that will be done. Most of the money will be disposed of in a way that is at least as responsible as the way that government departments have disposed of it because it will be disposed of primarily by Aboriginal organisations, which, by and large, get better value per dollar for Aborigines and put less into white administration. Nevertheless there is a need to assist those organisations to make the best use of that money in the long term because it will dry up. Those mines will not last for every. For example, the Nabarlek company aims to rip out all the ore in one year and then sift through it at its leisure so that if, among other things, there is a change of government that company will not be able to fill in the hole without having a chance to extract the ore. 
The Opposition does not accept that this is just an argument about tax. It does not accept the formula of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  that an imputed $1,000 is to be given to each Aboriginal family in the Northern Territory and that it should be taxed because they are getting other income. The Opposition does not accept it and the responsible Minister's formula does not accept it. That formula accepts only an imputed one-fifth of that royalty money as noncapital money. He accepts that around four-fifths of it will go into capital works, which means that it is not taxable. Capital gains are not taxable, even for Lang Hancock. If we divide that $1,000 by five we find that $200 per Aboriginal family is the amount that is to be taxed at the rate of 32 per cent- at an income tax rate- the honourable member for Dundas is asking honourable members to believe that a taxable rate of income should be applied to the Aboriginal families in the Northern Territory because of the $200 they will get from these royalties. 
The Opposition rejects that formula. Even it it were true, the Opposition would reject the suggestion that this tax is justified. Compensation in any sense of the word, is not adequate because the royalties were a miserable settlement by any standard of comparison with Papua New Guinea, Canada and North America and with the royalties that are paid to private owners of mineral leases, such as Lang Hancock. The Opposition does not accept it as a fair formula. It thinks the tax is a miserable back-door way of doing what the Government continually does when it tries to reduce its deficit. It does not impose further taxes on mining companies. It does not impose super taxes or resources rentals. It gives investment incentives but it cuts down on social services. It cuts down on the real amount being given to Aboriginals for their housing and health. It cuts down on the mineral royalties that in some cases they have received for 10 or 15 years without tax. The Government does all that to help it balance its Budget because the Aboriginals do not have the muscle to fight back and resist. The Opposition has done its best to fight back and resist. On those grounds, I believe that the Opposition ought to have divided at every stage of this legislation but because of the guillotine that has been applied this evening and because every time we divided this Parliament the House would be deprived of its more precious right to debate. I have had to content myself with registering the Opposition's objections to these Bills. I take it that everyone who reads  Ilansard  will understand that the Opposition is united in its opposition. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March1979: 
) Is  Mrs June  Tapp of Killarney Station subsidised by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to advise Aborigines on community work. 
If so, (a) when was she appointed, (b) for what period and (c) what subsidies have been paid to her in each financial year since her appointment. 
What duties and responsibilities have been assigned to her, under what conditions and when were they assigned. 
Has  Mrs Tapp  provided regular reports on her work and are these open for inspection. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 29 March1979: 
) Is the Minister able to state whether legislation has been introduced in Queensland to provide award conditions for Aboriginal and Islander residents of reserves. 
If so, will this belated recognition of human rights be eroded by (a) persistence of slow worker permit laws and (b) imposition on wage-earners of new levies for rates, rentals, etc., on reserves. 
What action has the Australian Government taken to provide human rights and land rights in Queensland in accordance with (a) international conventions, (b) national policies and (c) anti-discrimination laws. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice on 4 April1979: 
What is the present status of housing (a) construction, (b) repairs, (c) finance and (d ) needs at Mornington Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May1979: 
When may I expect an acknowledgement of my suggestions dated 20 October1978 on behalf of  Mrs N.  M. Skuta, National Aboriginal Council Member of area VCB, and others, addressed to his predecessor. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
What steps have been taken to implement recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare concerning drug abuse, in particular the adjustment of excise to ensure that the cost of beverage alcohol does not decrease relative to average consumer costs or incomes. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Will he investigate the possibility of trade practices legislation to limit or restrain the imposition on small businesses of rental loadings based on turnover. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Will mining royalties paid to Aboriginal land owners in the Northern Territory be taxed at the rate of 32c in each $5. 
Are mining royalties paid to States, the Northern Territory and some private, non-Aboriginal owners of land in Australia, exempt from such Federal taxes. 
Will Aboriginal Land Councils' mining royalties be used for non-profit community advancement projects. 
If so, why are Aborigines singled out for such taxes contrary to international conventions, British custom and Australian precedents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a reply in Parliament by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs (Queensland  Hansard  21 March 1979, page 359 1 ) criticising a report on racism in Queensland by the Community Relations Commissioner as bias and provocative nonsense which will not alter one iota the proud record of Queensland in care for Aboriginal people. 
If so, has the Minister any information as to (a) which parts of the report are objected to as (i) nonsense or (ii) biased and (b) who has been provoked and to what effect. 
Will the Minister seek clarification from the Queensland Government as to what it intends to do to correct alleged breaches of Federal and international law detailed in  Mr Grassby  's reports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Vestey family company rents a million acres of land at Gordon Downs and other stations totalling 20,000 square miles, from the Western Australian Government for less than $ 1 ,000 a year. 
Have 50 Aboriginal families, including a handful employed on the station, inadequate housing, water and sanitation facilities while the manager's homestead has lawn sprinklers. 
Did the community ask for 40 square miles of the station land and 60 square miles of vacant crown land, where they have traditional ties, over 7 months ago. 
Are itinerant relatives of the employees discouraged from camping on the property by being offered no help with social security applications and by having no rights to cash cheques or buy from the company store, and are retrenched employees encouraged to leave the property. 
What steps have been taken by the Federal Government to correct this situation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Is Carlemo Wacondo a traditional leader of Torres Strait Island people. 
Has Carlemo Wacondo been refused an appointment with him, after a special trip and a 3 day stay in Canberra, on the grounds that only representatives elected under Queensland Government elections will be recognised as Islander representatives. 
Was  Mr Wacondo  refused (a) legal aid by the Attorney-General and (b) information on the proposed Papua New Guinea border agreement by him after written assurances by the Prime Minister that legal advice would be available to assist a challenge to the border settlement. 
Will he satisfy himself independently of Queensland Government agencies of the real concerns of Islanders in consultation with anthropologists and long-term residents of the islands whose security is not dependent on the goodwill or patronage of State officials. 
Does the proposed border settlement forfeit possible commercial fishing or other development rights of traditional owners of fishing zones. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister and have other Ministers examined the National Black Health Program submitted by the National Aboriginal and Islander Health Organisation; if so, what action has been taken as a result. 
Can the Minister say which State authorities have examined the submission; if so, what action has been taken or is expected as a result. 
) Have detailed reasons been prepared for any disagreement with the costing of the program; if so, where may those reasons be seen. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Prospect, who referred to the report on the rationalisation of hospital services tabled a week ago. I ask the Minister whether he agrees that the report warned against increasing the share of hospital care going to private hospitals because it costs taxpayers much more, on account of the increased subsidy to the doctors concerned under the current version of Medibank. Will the Minister assure the House that the $45m hospital acquisition and development project in Australia by the Hospital Corporation of America will not be allowed to proceed in a way that will move the more affluent and the more desperate patients out of a public hospital sector which is being cut by government policy without a corresponding provision for the expansion of nursing home, day care, rehabilitation and community health services? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement of  President  Carter that human rights constituted the soul of American foreign policy and that the United States of America would demonstrate its affinity with democratic nations through its allocation of assistance funds and will not hesitate to convey its outrage- nor will it pretend that its relations are unaffected- if human rights violations persist in Cambodia, Chile, Uganda, South Africa, Nicaragua, Ethiopia and the Soviet Union. 
If so, has Australia protested and acted similarly at Indonesia's failure to allow free access to Timorese rebels by Red Cross and news services and to allow independently supervised plebiscites there and in West Irian. 
Has Australia assured Papua New Guinea of Australia's firm support in the event of dispute with Indonesia over granting of political asylum to refugees from West Irian. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the boundaries of the proposed Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef 
Marine Park overlap the area of permits Q/4P and Q/5P? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by Pro fessor B. L. Cole to the effect that a paper by Oakley and Young shows a very small reduction in rate of progression of myopia with use of bifocal glasses and although the difference between the experimental and control groups was statistically significant it was within the limits of experimenter bias and was probably due to that bias. 
If so, was the statistical difference referred to on aver age the difference between 0.5d and 0.025d yearly for three to four years, or a total difference averaging some 1.5 to 2d. 
Is it credible that this cumulative difference could be due to experimenter bias. 
Is Professor Cole's statement alleging  Mr Brumer's  failure to promote his case through professional channels, misleading in that  Mr Brumer  has (a) been possibly uniquely, repeatedly refused membership of the Victorian College of Optometry, (b) had a paper rejected by a Congress in Melbourne and (c) received no support from any colleague after resigning in protest from the Australian Optometrical Association, 1 1 years ago at a general meeting. 
Has his attention also be drawn to the Commonwealth 
Medical Association Journal, 8 March 1975, wherein Stephen M. Drance, M.D.,  Chairman  of the Department of Opthalmology, University of British Columbia, in an article entitled 'Myopia- genes or environment?' states that a study of an isolated community failed to support the orthodox view that myopia is influenced by heredity, suggesting that schooling could be a factor, quoting supporting evidence from experiments on primates and calling for research which may prevent myopia and reduce blindness. 
Will he ensure that objective assessment is made of  Mr 
Brumer's claims to be able to prevent, retard and relieve myopic patients and others by modified approaches to refractive correction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Cairns  Post  of 1 7 May 1979, apparently referring to a charge placed by an alien against a Torres Strait Islander,  Mr Bob  Ware, based on his use of turtle meat. 
If so, what steps has the Minister taken to ensure adequate legal protection for  Mr Ware  and compensation for the confiscation of the meat, harassment and indignity. 
What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that (a) traditional and State law entitling indigenous people to take traditional foods for their private use is respected,  (b) prima facie  baseless charges are not placed or (c) penalties are applied for insult to the rights of minority ethnic groups, including repeated discriminatory practices of Queensland officials documented by the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Of each dollar spent on Aboriginal Affairs in the last 6 years, how many cents have been paid as (a) wages, (b) salaries, (c) allowances or personal benefits, (i) directly or (ii) through other administrations to Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Did the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council agree in May that the Commonwealth must spend more and make advance triennial commitments (a) to achieve the ideal of self-management, (b) to overcome urgent social problems, (c) to provide employment, training and health support, and ( d ) to provide a target date for housing the homeless. 
) If so, does this confirm that in the Council 's view funding cuts in real terms over the last 3 budgets have disadvantaged Aborigines in all of these aspects of need. 
Does the Minister support the stated view of all the State Ministers that funding from the Commonwealth is grossly inadequate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the policy of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement that its primary objective is to provide accommodation for married persons and their dependants and to its claim that, consequently, no specific accommodation can be provided for single persons at Palm Island. 
If so, will the Minister take steps to see that suitable accommodation is made available at Palm Island for single persons and their dependants as well as for married persons. 
When will sufficient funds be available to enable Aboriginal housing to be supplied at a rate exceeding the growth in demand for it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
When may I expect a reply to my representations of 6 March 1979 in support of  Mr P.  Ivory's letters of 19 December 1978 and 26 February 1979 and what action has been taken to relieve the position. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on page 7 of the  Australian  of 8 May 1979 that the United States of America Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare,  Mr Joseph  Califano, has launched a national campaign against alcohol abuse with a counselling and referral service in his own department which has about one problem drinker for every 1 8 staff members. 
) If so, will he give a similar lead in Australia to improve his Department's efficiency and decrease the costs of alcohol abuse in terms of public expenditure and private suffering. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs recommending legislation to support each specific community in Queensland wishing to achieve selfmanagement because co-operation is unlikely from the Queensland Government to discharge Australia's obligations to indigenous peoples. 
Will the Minister assure the House that the recommended legislation is being prepared and that no further dilution, equivocation or delay will be tolerated in awarding control of (a) traditional land, (b) appointment of administrators, (c) the setting of funding priorities and (d) the type, style and structure of community administration to democratically chosen representatives of the indigenous community concerned in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 May 1 979: 
1 ) Does Australia own, or has it owned, land in the New Hebrides; if so, how was it acquired. 
Has Australia disposed of its land; if so, when, how and to whom, and after what consultation with traditional owners. 
When will Australia return, or has it returned, New Hebrides territory to traditional owners. 
Can he say whether France or Great Britain has returned land to traditional owners; if so, when and on what terms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government been informed during the last 2 months by the Northern Territory's Chief Minister that the Territory Government wishes to see Kakadu National Park declared as soon as possible? 
2 ) What is the present delay in declaring the Park? 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to figures which show relative amounts of leave taken by males and females including sick, compensation, maternity, paternity and/or compassionate leave; if so, where may these figures be obtained; if not, what steps have been taken to obtain them. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on page 1 3 of the  Australian  of 8 May 1979 that chewing tobacco and snuff are being actively promoted in the United States of America and while cigarette consumption rose only 3.9 per cent in that country in 1977 non-smoking tobacco products increased retail sales about 30 per cent. 
Has he evidence that snuff and chewing tobacco are a health hazard comparable to cigarettes. 
Will he take steps to get a commitment from the States and initiate laws for the Australian Capital Territory to forbid advertising of drugs, including alcohol and tobacco, beyond balanced, factual information approved by health authorities and devoid of favourable image-building or balanced by equal promotion against the drug concerned by organisations promoting the contrary view and at the expense of the drug promoters; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 3 May 1979: 
1 ) What land rights have been claimed in the Lake Nash region. 
What surveillance is being exercised or contemplated to see that King Ranch employees meet their legal obligations to Aboriginals. 
3 ) What penalties have been incurred by pastoralists and pastoral company officers in each of the last 5 years for breaches of these obligations which result in great hardship for some Aboriginals. 
What rights are now guaranteed by law and surveillance for Aboriginals on properties which include part or the whole of their traditional land. 
Will the legal and other costs of the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress in enforcing the rights of Aboriginals at Lake Nash be met by the Government. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has a resident of Woorabinda Aboriginal Settlement apparently suicided while imprisoned at Woorabinda. 
Have reports from myself and others indicated to the Minister and his predecessors the lack of effective selfmanagement, self-determination, cultural independence, religious tolerance and of Aboriginal beliefs, respect for traditional ritual relations with the land and civil rights in State-administered settlements in Queensland. 
Has Australia subscribed internationally to Conventions guaranteeing the rights of minorities which require specific programs and policies to ensure that intercultural communication is promoted and developed in a nondiscriminatory way. 
If so, what progress has been made and what targets have been set for the elimination of discrimination which leads to degradation of Aborigines in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
Will he ensure that no commercial sea food harvesting licences are let for the Torres Strait and northern Barrier Reef region until 
full consultation has occurred with Aboriginal and Islander Communities interested in beche-de-mer and other sea food industries and 
adequate help is provided to these communities to ensure that they can provide a management structure and submit tenders and/or applications with priority over other interests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the Western Australian Institute of Technology course for Aboriginal alcohol counsellors been successful in providing Aboriginal social change agents, who offer one of the most cost-effective approaches to prevention of alcoholism by relieving social environmental and cross-cultural problems. 
Have funds been refused for renewal of the course next year on the grounds that funds are not available to employ the trainees. 
What evidence is available to suggest that denying such essential functions will save public money in the long and medium term. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Did Yindiji people resettle on Buddabuddoo land in 1974 with the help of a Federal Government grant. 
Has funding to Buddabuddoo Council been stopped to appease the Queensland Government. 
Are Buddabuddoo people pooling social security income to buy farm equipment. 
Did the North Queensland Land Council persuade Australian catholic relief that they should assist the outstation. 
Was this assistance blocked by the former Yarrabah Council under pressure from the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
Were funds refused the Aborigines Advancement League of Victoria for a Victorian Aboriginal Women's Refuge during 1 978-79; if so, on what grounds. 
Has he been informed that, without his written approval, the League cannot receive proceeds of a deceased estate which would fund the 25% of the cost not met by the Government under its current limited funding policy. 
Will he commit for this project funds not spent from 1978-79 federal allocations or give an advance commitment for 1979-80. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
Have Swift Australia Co. (Pty) Ltd and a pastoral company of the American King Ranch group attempted twice in 5 years to evict the Aboriginal population at Lake Nash station. 
If so, are results of these actions likely to affect United States of America/Australian relations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister for Local Government in Queensland declared his intention to gazette roads in Aurukun Shire to give locals something to do. 
Has the Queensland Minister declared land rights agitation in the Shire is largely sloganeering prompted by outsiders. 
Is one of the first roads to be gazetted to connect Aurukun township with Weipa. 
Is this the road most Aurukun citizens want least because it will expand grog-running from Weipa. 
Will the Minister ensure that with or without slogans or outsiders communicating with them no action is taken by the State of Queensland in Aurukun Shire without endorsement of the people or their Council. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to the Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice which was adopted by the Commonwealth heads of government at Lusaka on 7 August. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  the text of that Declaration. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice 
The following is the text of the declaration adopted by the Heads of Government on 7 August: 
We, the Commonwealth Heads of Government, recalling the declaration of Commonwealth principles made at Singapore on 22 January 197 1 and the statement on apartheid in sport, issued in London on 1 5 June 1977, have decided to proclaim our desire to work jointly as well as severally for the eradication of all forms of racism and racial prejudice. 
The Commonwealth is an institution devoted to the promotion of international understanding and world peace, and to the achievement of equal rights for all citizens regardless of race, colour, sex, creed or political belief, and is committed to the eradication of the dangerous evils of racism and racial prejudice, 
We now, therefore, proclaim this Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice. 
United in our desire to rid the world of the evils of racism and racial prejudice, we proclaim our faith in the inherent dignity and worth of the human person and declare that: 
The peoples of the Commonwealth have the right to live freely in dignity and equality, without any distinction or exclusion based on race, colour, sex, descent, or national or ethnic origin, 
While everyone is free to retain diversity in his or her culture and lifestyle, this diversity does not justify the prepetuation of racial prejudice or racially discriminatory practices, 
Everyone has the right to equality before the law and equal justice under the law, 
Everyone has the right to effective remedies and protection against any form of discrimination based on the grounds of race, colour, sex, descent, or national or ethnic origin. 
We reject as inhuman and intolerable all policies designed to perpetuate apartheid, racial segregation or other policies based on theories that racial groups are or may be inherently superior or inferior. 
We reaffirm that it is the duty of all the peoples of the Commonwealth to work together for the total eradication of the infamous policy of apartheid which is internationally recognised as a crime against the conscience and dignity of mankind and the very existence of which is an affront to humanity. 
We agree that everyone has the right to protection against acts of incitement to racial hatred and discrimination, whether committed by individuals, groups or other organisations. 
We affirm that there should be no discrimination based on race, colour, sex, descent or national or ethnic origin in the acquisition or exercise of the right to vote, in the field of civil rights or access to citizenship, or in the economic, social or cultural fields, particularly education, health, employment, occupation, housing, social security and cultural life. 
We attach particular importance to ensuring that children shall be protected from practices which may foster racism or racial prejudice. Children have the right to be brought up and educated in a spirit of tolerance and understanding so as to be able to contribute fully to the building of future societies based on justice and friendship. 
We believe that those groups in societies who may be especially disadvantaged because of residual racist attitudes are entitled to the fullest protection of the law. We recognise that the history of the Commonwealth and its diversity require that special attention should be paid to the problems of indigenous minorities. We recognise that the same special attention should be paid to the problems of immigrants, immigrant workers and refugees. 
We agree that special measures may in particular circumstances be required to advance the development of disadvantaged groups in society. We recognise that the effects of colonialism or racism in the past may make desirable special provisions for the social and economic enhancement of indigenous populations inspired by the principles of freedom and equality which characterise our association, we accept the solemn duty of working together to eliminate racism and racial prejudice. This duty involves the acceptance of the principle that positive measures may be required to advance the elimination of racism, including assistance to those struggling to rid themselves and their environment of the practice. 
Being aware that legislation alone cannot eliminate racism and racial prejudice, we endorse the need to initiate public information and education policies designed to promote understanding, tolerance, respect and friendship among peoples and racial groups. 
We are particularly conscious of the importance of the contribution the media can make to human rights and the eradication of racism and racial prejudice by helping to eliminate ignorance and misunderstanding between people and by drawing attention to the evils which afflict humanity. We affirm the importance of truthful presentation of facts in order to ensure that the public are fully informed of the dangers presented by racism and racial prejudice. 
In accordance with established principles of international law and, in particular, the provisions of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, we affirm that everyone is, at all times and in all places, entitled to be protected in the enjoyment of the right to be free of racism and racial prejudice. 
We believe that the existence in the world of apartheid and racial discrimination is a matter of concern to all human beings. We recognise that we share an international responsibility to work together for the total eradication of apartheid and racial discrimination. 
We note that racism and racial prejudice, wherever they occur, are significant factors contributing to tension between nations and thus inhibit peaceful progress and development. We believe that the goal of the eradication of racism stands as a critical priority for governments of the Commonwealth, committed as they are to the promotion of the ideals of peaceful and happy lives for their people. 
We intend that the Commonwealth, as an international organisation with a fundamental and deep-rooted attachment to principles of freedom and equality, should cooperate with other organisations in the fulfilment of these principles. In particular the Commonwealth should seek to enhance the co-ordination of its activities with those of other organisations similarly committed to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
When one considers the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  in regard to the responsibilities of the States to raise their own revenue and to make the most of the generous provision', as he described it, of the Fraser Government, one should bear in mind that the grants to the States are still based on the formula agreed with the Whitlam Government. On the formula proposed by the Fraser Government the States would have received less. Nevertheless, the Federal Government has undertaken commitments to the States which are of particular relevance to the matter of racism and racial prejudice. This Federal Government has not followed the example of the Whitlam Government. I refer particularly, for example, to the agreement with New South Wales- the previous  speaker  referred to New South Wales- signed in 1975 by the Federal Government, that the Federal Government would pick up the tab for all services to Aborigines. This has not been done and there is still grave deficiency in the services to Aborigines in all States and Territories. There are particular points that I believe are of relevance to our Aboriginal policies in this country and which to my mind perhaps will have more significance for Australia than the much publicised communique on Southern Africa. For example, one is the paragraph which reads: 
While everyone is free to retain diversity in his or her culture and life style, this diversity does not justify the perpetuation of racial prejudice or racially discriminatory practices. 
Yet I believe every member of this House who has bothered to take notice will realise that such discriminatory practices persist in Queensland despite laws passed by the Whitlam Government banning such discrimination and despite actions under that legislation taken by the  Hon.  A. J. 
Grassby, Commissioner for Community Relations, to overcome it. They will also realise that the Fraser Government not only is dragging its feet in implementing measures to end that discrimination, which are within Commonwealth legislative ambit, but also, we have heard, is moving to abolish the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations as part of the winding down of so-called surplus bureaucracy. Another paragraph of the Lusaka Declaration reads: 
We affirm that there should be no discrimination based on race, colour, sex, descent or national or ethnic origin in the acquisition or exercise of the right to vote, in the field of civil rights or access to citizenship, or in the economic, social or cultural fields, particularly education, health, employment, occupation, housing, social security and cultural life. 
In every one of these respects the Australian Government is lacking and previous Australian governments have been lacking. The policies of every major political party in this country, indeed every political party represented in any parliament in Australia, all agree with this Lusaka Declaration. But it is on their work that we should judge them, not on their stated and published policies. We should judge them on the priorities which they accord to these high ideals. The priorities set by this Government for Aboriginies are very low. The sorts of things which have higher priority include States rights, amicable relations with the States, the new Federalism policy, the need to develop and to sell our mineral resources, the need to attract investment in mining and the exploration for and development of oil resources, the tourist industry, the pastoral industry and the fishing industry. Indeed, just about any industry, unless it happens to be Aboriginal industry, will take precedence of these high ideals. I have repeatedly drawn the attention of the House to examples of that. 
The next paragraph in the Declaration states: 
We attach particular importance to ensuring that children shall be protected from practices which may foster racism or racial prejudicce. Children have the right to be brought up and educated in a spirit of tolerance and understanding so as to be able to contribute fully to the building of future societies based on justice and friendship. 
That cannot happen unless the aims in the preceding paragraph of the declaration are carried out. In particular, it states that there must be equality in cultural fields and education. We do not give to Aboriginal children or white children equal access to the riches of Aboriginal culture but for European children or possibly children from other continents who come to this country there is special provision for the teaching of their own culture and language. I know that all governments have been remiss in this regard. All governments of recent years have done something about it. 
I regret, however, that a look at the Budget Papers introduced this week shows that virtually every line of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been cut in real terms. In most cases, but not in every case, the proposed expenditure has increased, but when one allows for inflation one sees that there has been a decline in expenditure in real terms. This trend has continued through all the Fraser Government's Budgets. The Whitlam Government increased spending in these areas in each of its Budgets, whereas funds are now being cut in each Budget of the Fraser Government. 
I do not pretend that money should be the be-all and end-all of the commitment to Aboriginal rights. I know it is not. I know that in many instances Aborigines would prefer other kinds of commitments, particularly quicker moves towards self-management, which is something that is being eroded. In many areas white bureaucracy is increasingly taking over functions from Aborigines who are thought in Public Service terms not to be responsible in their bookkeeping, their auditing or whatever. But if a less strict monetary yardstick were applied and if more humanity and humane values were applied if would be found in most cases that selfmanagement by Aboriginal organisations is cheaper and better. Many of them are doing a better job of balancing the books and auditing than many of the government bureaucrats. We know that many of their projects have gone on for years without proper accountability. Nevertheless, if proper attention in terms of this Lusaka Declaration instead of to monetary considerations were paid to human values and the human advances which are made it would be found in most cases that self-management is cheaper and better than increasing bureaucracy. 
The Lusaka Declaration also states:   the acceptance of the principle that positive measures may be required to advance the elimination of racism, including assistance to those struggling to rid themselves and their environment of the practice. 
I know that Ministers have made high-sounding statements about that from time to time but I wish that some of the increasing amount of promotion money that is being paid to advertising experts to promote various Government concepts like ' Let 's Advance Australia ' and ' Life. Be in it* could be devoted to the project for removing the remnants of racism which unfortunately pervade our community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! It being 12.45 p.m., in accordance with Standing Order 106, the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on page 1 3 of the  Australian  of 8 May 1979 of a marketing seminar address by Seagram's  president  wherein he (a) chided other liquor marketers for relying on trade discounts, (b) advocated (i) marketing to increase profits not market share, (ii) continually raising prices and (iri) reinvesting the profits in advertising, and (c) described as a creative strategy the determining of consumer desires rather than consumer preferences, relying on data pools and international communications. 
Will he initiate a comparable international counter-strategy. 
Can he say whether Seagram's aim and success as the 5th biggest United States of America advertiser refutes claims of liquor and tobacco interests that their advertising aims to shift brand loyalties but not to increase consumption. 
-As a result of the Budget I wish to survey some of the funding as it affects the Aboriginal people of Australia. As with previous Fraser Government Budgets, funding which goes to Aboriginal people has been cut in regard to housing, health, education, employment, enterprises, town management, public utilities, cultural and recreational funding, legal aid training and consultation and research- in fact, in every category except for general welfare where there has been a small increase. Since the Labor Government's period in office, total spending by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in inflation-adjusted terms, has dropped by 30.7 per cent. Last year there was an under-spending by $5m of the appropriated amount, which has not been accounted for in this year's appropriation. The original appropriation for 1978-79 was $120m. 
This year's allocation is $223,000, which is 0.2 per cent less in real terms. If we look at some of the details, for housing, the drop in real terms, since the 1975 Labor Budget, has been 23.8 per cent. In inflation-adjusted terms it is $9m less. 
At the rate of spending in this Budget it would take 30 years to accommodate those Aborigines who are at present on the waiting list. For many years the standard of housing has not improved beyond something like 10 people per house in most Aboriginal houses. The housing is very dilapidated and the amount allocated for repairs is less in real terms. In last year's Budget there was a $405,000 grant to the Northern Territory Commission which was unspent. It has been allocated again this year. Perhaps it will be spent this year. The total budget for Aboriginal housing did rise in real terms by 6.4 per cent on the figure for last year, but I stress that that is still below the level of Labor's last Budget. One of the areas within which it did increase but was much needed was in non-metropolitan Aboriginal housing, but 34 per cent of housing in that area is below standard and the waiting time for housing loans for Aboriginals wishing to buy a house is eight years. If anything, it is a little bit longer than the waiting list for ordinary Housing Commission houses in most States and areas of Australia. These are deprived people and yet we hear complaints from the white population- particularly in areas where they are aware of the existence of high Aboriginal populations within their community- that Aborigines are getting preference for housing. In order to obtain their own homes there is an eight-year wait, and if they want to rent a home there is a 30-year wait. To my mind no manipulation or rhetoric can excuse this sort of priority of the Fraser Government. 
In regard to health, another area of wellknown deprivation where Aborigines are far behind the rest of the community, spending is down on last year by 1  lh  per cent. On the last Labor Budget it is down by more than 15.3 per cent. For the first time there is no funding for health services in the Northern Territory. These funds are now channelled through the vote of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the Northern Territory health services. In real terms the Government is spending $7m less on Aboriginal health programs than the Labor Government spent in 1975. It is not as though all health indicators were improving. There has been a fluctuation in infant mortality, which rose last year but seems to be on the way down overall, and there is a greater discovery- if not incidence- of many diseases that are a sign of poverty which existed in the tropics 100 years ago in the white population. I refer to leprosy, trachoma, malnutrition, anaemia and so on, which were very widespread, particularly amongst the young. 
Our health programs are being cut. Virtually every Aboriginal health program around Australia- run by Aborigines more efficiently than by government departments or private enterprise- is complaining about the cuts and the need to restore the sorts of services that they want to give Aborigines. It is not as though these health services are lavish. If one goes to any Aboriginal health service in Australia, which is run by Aborigines, one will find that it is in modest surroundings. Very often it is in cramped surroundings and is working with not very high standards of furniture, equipment or vehicles. These people certainly are paid lower salaries than many of their members could obtain in other kinds of employment. 
One could make invidious comparisons, of which the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  no doubt will be well aware, with the services in Canberra in things like our community health services or the Woden Hospital. There can be no argument for cuts in the health program at a time when there is an increasing and obvious need, a need which has been recognised at every investigation by every committee set up by either House of this Parliament or anybody else. It has been recognised world wide as an area of need. 
In education there has been a cut in both grants in aid and grants to the States. In real terms these grants in aid are $98,000 below the level under Labor, and for grants to the States $2.Im below. In real terms that is $2.2m below the level under Labor, or down 10.1 per cent on last year's figures. There has been quite a debate on the question whether we are getting value for money in education spending. I believe that there is no better investment in the future- this is a government that speaks of investing in the future and of encouraging efficiency in the future and investment- than educating people to be independent and self-supporting. In this way, they may be able to make work or jobs for themselves. Yet the position is that with only one in every 50 Aboriginal children, representing 2 per cent, going beyond grade 9, as compared with nearly one in four white children, representing 24 per cent, going beyond grade 9, there are cuts in this most needy area of education, the education of Aborigines. 
If one turns to employment, the same sort of sorry picture is seen. It is almost as though Aborigines do not have votes or the Government does not want them to have votes. There is a drop of 9.6 per cent, nearly one tenth, on last year's funding in real terms, and 13.4 per cent, more than one eighth, as against the level of the last Labor Budget. Both grants to the States and grants-in-aid are cut again in the area of employment. Some of the cuts have been made up in training programs but by no means all of them. This is at a time when Aboriginal unemployment is growing and is six times the national average. About 50 per cent of the Aboriginal work force is registered as unemployed. Probably more Aborigines would be willing and able to register if they were assisted. Between 1978 and 1979, Aboriginal unemployment increased by 12 percent; yet there is a cut in employment funding. This is only the second year that the Department has funded special training projects. They are certainly much needed, particularly as 40 per cent of the Aboriginal population is under the age of 15. Their life expectancy is not high, but in the next few years these youngsters will be in increasing need of training programs. Ninety per cent of all employed Aborigines are unskilled. Surely the need for funds here is obvious, but the employment and training funds are still below the 1975 level and obviously are having little impact on the employment situation. The one line where there has been a slight increase is the welfare area. It represents an increase of less than one-fortieth, 2.3 per cent in real terms over Labor's last Budget, and is up 8.9 per cent over last year's appropriation. It will allow 14 new projects. 
I refer to the area of enterprises. This is an area where there should be encouragement to Aborigines to manage their own affairs, to become independent and self-reliant. The policy of all major parties in Australia is to encourage Aboriginal competence so that Aboriginals may become self-reliant and independent. However, the funds appropriated for enterprises have been slashed by nearly one tenth, $9.9m in real terms, since the last Labor Budget. Nothing has been paid to the States since 1976-77. The grants in aid have been cut by $6.6m since the last Labor Budget. Funds to the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission have been reduced every year since the change of government, no doubt to the delight of some State Premiers who do not want Aboriginals to be able to acquire land. I mention particularly the Queensland Government. This Commission is the only means open to Aborigines to purchase land in the States. It now has to purchase land with $1.3m less than it had under the Labor Government. In total, the grants for enterprises funding is 81.9 per cent less in real terms than under the Labor Government and 39.7 per cent less than last year's sum, down nearly four-tenths. That is the priority which this Government gives to Aboriginal enterprises and land acquisition, a bit of capital for the people most in need of it in our economy. 
In the area of town management and public utilities, funding is down 9.6 per cent in real terms due mainly but not entirely to the assumption of responsibility by the Northern Territory Government. In real terms the grants to the States have dropped by $ 19m in the last three or four Budgets. The statistics indicate that more funds- not less- are needed because of the great deprivation in these particular areas. The Whitlam Government introduced quite massive aid to all kinds of local authorities that were in need with regard to water, sewerage and like facilities. Most in need of all were Aboriginal communities. Today more than one in seven of these Aboriginal communities has no water supply- 14.8 per cent. Three out of ten communities, or 29.7 per cent. have no electricity. About the same number of communities, some 28.9 per cent, has no sewerage services. These particular local authority environmental services are the ones most needed to combat the terrific backlog in public health and hygiene in Aboriginal communities. Unless these urgent priorities are met, we will be fighting a losing battle with trachoma, scabies, impetigo and many of the nutritional problems. Anaemia afflicts more than half the children in these communities because of hookworm. This can be virtually eliminated if the communities are sewered. It is not just a matter of local authority funding but it is one of basic standards ofliving that have been taken for granted by most white communities for most of this century. 
In the recreational and cultural fields there has been a rise in funds of 18.7 per cent since last year. However, compared with the last Labor Government, it is down about 10 per cent. It is a fairly small area of expenditure and the increase in real terms since last year is only $ 1 38,000. So it is not as though the Government is very lavish in recreational or cultural terms. A new category this year protects sacred sites. Grants to the States have completely stopped; there are purely grants-in-aid. 
In the legal aid field the same sort of story can be told with a slight rise of 4.6 per cent on last year but down nearly twice that much in real terms- 8 per cent- since the Labor Government's term. The legal aid agencies are not able to handle all their applications and they have to deny certain categories of legal aid completely. The Government is attempting to make up some of the leeway by defining more rational priorities and guidelines. I note that the agencies are receiving some nominal fee from people for their legal services, presumably to bring home to these people that they are getting a service that costs something. I do not object to that charge so long as the people who are not able to pay are not required to pay; and that is the proposal. But it should not be thought that these are people who can well afford private legal aid. In most cases Aborigines have to be much more desperate than white people before they will appeal for legal help. They do not do it in order to devise tax avoidance schemes, for example. They very rarely use conveyancing services, which provide the main income of private solicitors, because they are very rarely in a position to buy and sell properties. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which summarises those points and which I have shown to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott). 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909125_36_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909125_37_2.jpg"></graphic>

In the short time remaining I should like to refer to some of the aspects that do not bear particularly on the Budget but on what I see, and on what increasing numbers of Aborigines see, as the inhumane priorities of this Government in contemplating Aboriginal concerns. I have said many times, and quoted examples, when mining projects have impinged on Aboriginal rights, that the Government seems to give first priority to appeasing and co-operating with the States and to getting the consensus of the States even with a State like Queensland where the relevant Ministers are, frankly, totalitarian in these matters and have no intention of putting Aboriginal rights ahead of their philosophies. The next priority seems to go to mining. This was well illustrated by the Ranger agreements. Aborigines were brushed completely aside and ordered to sign something that they did not understand. That was contrary to the law which provided that they must have it fully explained to them. Then the Government gives priority to things such as pastoral development, tourist development, commercial fishing and so on. If there is any priority or concern left or any need to salvage some of the Government's credibility against the outrage of the public and the Aborigines, the Aborigines come after all those other commercial priorities and political Federal-State relations priorities. I think that is the real point that must be made. 
That is true. That is the real point behind these figures of neglect and betrayal of promises and duties to Aboriginal people by a Federal government which was given a mandate in every polling booth in Australia, at a referendum in 1967, to look after Aborigines. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to draw attention to the position of Aborigines in Queensland. After the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Act 1978 was passed by this Government in April last year, the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  said: 'This law stays. It is on the books. It has received royal assent. It is still available to any other community in Queensland to achieve self-management'. This law was, of course, side stepped shortly afterwards by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  Since that time Aboriginal communities at Weipa, Kowanyama, the Gorge and Yarrabah have applied for the Act to become law in their communities, but the Federal Government has disregarded these appeals except in the case of Yarrabah. Negotiations are continuing. State Ministers and people from Yarrabah have come to Canberra. 
At the moment it seems that all the Government is concerned about is negotiation. Queensland will carry out its own law. The Queensland courts have determined that award wages should be paid to the people at Yarrabah. People who were sacked because they joined the Australian Workers Union have been encouraged at a meeting with members of that union, the Industrial Commissioner in Cairns and representatives of the Federal and State governments to go back to work on the old basis of a training allowance, which is about half the award wage, until November when the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland has carried out a survey of all the reserves to find out which people it thinks should get award wages. We know the record of Queensland Government surveys of what Aborigines want and should have. Their surveys have been totally discredited by every other survey on, for example, how many Aboriginals on State reserves want self-management and how many would prefer a Federal takeover. A later survey showed that 70 per cent would prefer such a takeover. That was established in a careful survey carried out jointly by the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the FAIRA, a research organisation based in Brisbane, and the Aboriginal Legal Service. The attitude of the Queensland Government is that it knows best what the Aboriginals want. Anything the Aboriginals say they want is stirring, provocative and is induced by the Federal Government. 

 Mr Porter when he visited Yarrabah I believe it was the first time he has ever spoken to an elected council of Aboriginal people- said: 'The Commonwealth Government is the enemy of the Queensland Government. It is no good relying on them. They will not be in power after the next election and they know it. There are no negotiations going on between Queensland and the Commonwealth Government about Yarrabah. If the Federal Government wants to fund any project I will not let it function on Yarrabah'. This man continues his behaviour unchecked. He is supposed to be a member of the Liberal Party but obviously he is one of the totalitarians who has the ultimate say in what happens to Aborigines in Queensland. It is time that this Government took the advice of the Senate Committee, negotiated no longer with Queensland, and took over Aboriginal land to exercise the functions of this Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
What (a) allocation and (b) expenditure was made in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs' budget or otherwise for welfare relief on settlements and missions during each year since 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
What progress has been made in implementing the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs reports on alcoholism and health since those reports were presented. 
I would just like to relate a little of my experiences with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to indicate that the Opposition is not talking theoretically. The sorts of fears that we have are genuine fears and are based on actual happenings. In my student days I was misguided enough- because I had a father who campaigned for  Sir Earle  Page in his electoratewhen I heard about the formation of a new political party called the Liberal Party to accept the invitation which came into my letterbox to go to the inaugural meeting. I was nominated as secretary of the local branch. I declined because I was rather busy with studies in those days. In the course of my universities studies I met saner counsels who persuaded me that I was on the wrong side of the fence. 
The political fence. 
I am because I am suggesting that if a government of a certain colour used the law that we are debating tonight to decide that association with a party was an undesirable thing and it labelled the person who associated with that party as somebody who was not favourably known which is a phrase that was used by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  - 
I am speaking directly to the amendment which says that there ought to be the provision that the action which leads to surveillance is an illegal action. It was not illegal for me to have attended that party meeting, but in later years I attended meetings of another kind which led to my being under surveillance by ASIO. I attended peace meetings. I became the  president  of a peace committee in Rockhampton. I organised the Peace Conference. I put propaganda opposing Australia's involvement in Vietnam- when Australia got to that stage- on the walls of my waiting room. From two separate sources I was informed that I was on the files of ASIO. One could of course say that I was paranoid to have believed such hearsay. One of the sources was a medical man who happened to be my partner at that time.  His  brother-in-law worked in ASIO and he had, of course, breached the confidentiality of his job by informing my partner of certain information. 
My partner informed me of this because he felt uneasy about the exposure he was receiving following letters I had sent to a newspaper editor in Rockhampton, and the discussion that went on about the 'odd bod Everingham and his queer ideas'. He informed me gently that ASIO did not really think I was a communist but that they were warning me that they were keeping an eye on me. I will not relate the other occasion. Nevertheless there was no doubt in my mind that my name got onto the files of ASIO in those days. 
I received confirmation of that information. After I became a member of Parliament I had in my office a notice which declared my intention to give moral support to young men who were defying what I considered to be an unjust lawconscription for Vietnam. I had a courteous visit from a courteous man in plain clothes from the Commonwealth Police. He questioned me at length about my attitudes, involvement, knowledge and contacts regarding breaches of the conscription law in force at that time. That did not stop my being promoted. I later became a Minister of the Crown. I have had access on occasions even to secret documents. That does not mean that the small man who was referred to last night by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  would have that kind of immunity from that kind of surveillance. The small man is threatened by this legislation. 
It does not matter whether he goes to a peace congress, declares that he is against an unjust law or whether he joins a new and unheard of party called the Liberal Party. If the Minister of the day happens to see that as a security threat he can invoke this clause because it is wide enough to drive a horse and cart through. Anything can be represented as interfering with the plans of the Government to defend the security of the State. Those blessed words are the talisman that justify every kind of totalitarianism on the face of the earth. Those great ringing words 'the security of the State' are the sort of slogan with which Hitler went to war and with which he legally took control of the German people who one would have thought were a sophisticated people- politically aware. He legally took control of them by using exactly the same laws and regulations as are proposed here. 
He persuaded them with such fine speeches as the Minister delivered when he said: 'Oh, but of course, you are quoting innocent cases'. I have no doubt that Hitler and Goebbels said exactly the same when people objected to the sweeping terms in which they wrote laws for the security of the German state. Hitler would have said: 'Oh, but of course you are quoting innocent cases. We would not slaughter innocent Jews. Obviously it is the subversive people we are getting at'. That is the danger in this law and that is why the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  if he has any sense about this matter and any knowledge of political history, will accept this minor amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Have negotiations been held between the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Queensland Government regarding the request of the Yarrabah community and others for freedom from the administration of Queensland which they regard as paternalistic, bureaucratic and discriminatory, and effective self-management, freedom of choice and responsibility only to their members, as envisaged in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1 978. 
If so, have Aborigines been excluded from these negotiations. 
3 ) When will the Government enforce the Act. 
Will the Government respond to the request of the citizens of Aurukun and Mornington Shires for termination of the local government originally agreed to by them under duress for a 6 months' trial period by amending the Act to apply to reserves existing as at 3 1 March 1 978, and enforcing the law as promised. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Were visas to visit the United States refused to  Mr Peter  Noble and  Ms Cilia  Prior by the United States Consulate in Sydney, after  Ms Prior  was promised on 14 May 1979 that a visa would be available at 12.30 p.m. on 16 May. 
) Is he able to say whether this reversal of a decision was due to advice from Australian Government sources; if so, was any political discrimination exercised and, in particular, was (a) the Australian Government a party to restriction of movement to representatives of minorities seeking international support for removal of discrimination or for compensation for dispossession of indigenes by later settlers in Australia and (b) an Aboriginal subject to refusal of a visa on account of unsubstantiated political objections raised by a State Government, but not applied in the case of non-Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book  A Black Reality: Aboriginal Camps and Housing in Remote Australia,  which has a dozen contributors and which was edited by  Dr Michael  Heppell, who was recently dismissed by the Government from the Aboriginal Housing Panel. 
If so, does the book argue that Government planners are arrogant and that the Prime Minister has increased bureaucratisation in providing Aboriginal housing by making the Department of Housing and Construction responsible for all remote Aboriginal housing programs. 
Does the book also state that increased drunkenness and violence has resulted from the construction of $40,000 houses in remote Arnhem Land and that there is a better acceptance of free palm thatched houses than of $45,000 ones being constructed in North Queensland; if so, is there evidence to support these statements. 
ls current expenditure inadequate and are more families being inadequately housed each year contrary to the recommendations of every Government investigation into Aboriginal housing and all related problems and in breach of election undertakings of the Government. 
Does the book concur with these investigations and policy in insisting that constant and sympathetic contact with Aborigines is required to prevent squandering of funds on the European-devised programs now entrusted to officials with little opportunity to achieve such contact: if so, is any action being taken to correct the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
1 ) Have (a) Yarrabah, (b) The Gorge, (c) Weipa and (d) Kowanyama Queensland Aboriginal communities applied to the Federal Government for self-management under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978. 
If so, what stage of negotiations had been reached as at 30 July 1 979 between the 2 Governments in each of the 4 cases. 
If any of the negotiations have been delayed, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
What percentage of those Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders eligible for (a) age pensions, (b) invalid pensions, (c) widows' pensions, (d) other pensions, (e) social security sickness benefits or (f) unemployment benefits, is estimated not to be receiving these payments on account of limited motivation, awareness or capacity to obtain the payments. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  deserves a little attention because of some of the points he made. I think all honourable members of this House would agree with him that it is highly commendable for Community Youth Support Scheme programs to train people in office work, metal work, carpentry or whatever. However, I think it needs stressing that training people in those particular activities will be training people for jobs that are fast disappearing, for jobs for which the demand is declining. It has been stressed in this House, particularly by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and others, that Australia now produces more food than ever before with only 8 per cent of its population on the land, whereas two or three generations ago perhaps 90 per cent of Australia 's people were engaged in that type of activity. We now manufacture more than ever before with only 1 5 per cent of our work force. The trend is accelerating rapidly. The intake of apprentices by Telecom Australia has virtually dried up because of technical changes. So it is necessary for governments to take an entirely new look at the employment position, not merely to continue to encourage the young people who want to take up traditional types of employment. 
The threat of nuclear war was also raised by the honourable member for Holt. He spoke of war as being unthinkable. He spoke of the hope that resides in the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty agreements and the consultation network that has been set up between Japan, the United States and Commonwealth countries to ensure, as he said, that a war does not get out of hand. I would agree with his statement that there is no immediate threat of a major invasion of Australia. There are no powers that are likely to feel disposed to deploy the enormous naval and air forces that would be required to establish a beach head here. In World War II the combined forces of the two strongest powers on earth were amassed to cross 22 miles of ocean on D-Day. Our little moat happens to be more of a deterrent than that. But I would question the argument that because of that Australia should not feel that it would be a target in the event of World War III. There was a time when I believed that, as the honourable member said, it was unthinkable that we could have World War III. I no longer think this way. I belive that it is coming. 
As the late Lord Russell said: 'Man, since Adam and Eve ate the apple, has never refrained from any folly of which he was capable'. Before World War II, I can remember well the learned discourses by experts in politics and military arts about World War II being unthinkable, that it could not happen, that no sane person could possibly plunge the world into another world war because of the horrible nature of modern weapons. They said that it was even possible to wipe out whole cities in one mass bombing raidmass obliteration bombing, something unheard of in World War I. Of course, that proved entirely correct. Hamburg was wiped out. Coventry was wiped out, perhaps not in one night. Large slices of Berlin and other places were wiped out in mass bombing raids. From what we read of Idi Amin, of Pol Pot, and of some of the luminaries and leaders of the modern world, we can say that Hitler could not hold a candle to them for their brand of sanity, which one day is going to have its finger on the buttonwhether it be in Pakistan, Brazil, Israel or any country which at the moment is contemplating getting nuclear bombs or whether it be some bandit who reads one of the popular versions of the recipe for the home grown nuclear bomb, which is now a possibility. I believe that we are going to have World War III. I do so because the world has refrained from taking the essential step towards what is the only proven and known antidote to war, that is, to sit around a table before the war and not after- to make law and not war. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I wish to draw attention at this stage to further matters concerning the Aboriginal people and the provision which was made for them by the Government. According to the  Northern Territory News  of 9 September a further complaint was made by  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu, of the Northern Land Council, about pressures being placed on him or on the Council to agree to mining development at Nabarlek. I have adverted previously in this House to the pressures that were applied to  Mr Yunupingu,  in particular as  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, to sign the Ranger agreement and how he in turn applied pressure to traditional owners to sign that agreement. 
It seems that the Government has not learned from its disgraceful exhibition on that occasion what a demoralising effect it has on the Aboriginal people and particularly on traditional land owners when they are not consulted, do not have the agreement explained to them and are given an ultimatum which says: 'Sign or else'. The implication was that if they did not sign they could lose the Northern Land Council, the Land Council could lose some of its rights, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act might be amended, or the Government might appoint an arbitrator. In any case, any of those outcomes was more likely than the appointment of an independent arbitrator to determine Aboriginal land rights in the event of the Aboriginal people not toeing the line and not signing the agreement which the Government felt they should sign within the time specified by the Government. Various allegations were made by senior Ministers. Some of them were closeted for hours with  Mr Yunupingu,  particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who also assists the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and is a member of the Cabinet. 
The mining companies concerned, in which the Government has a major interest, delayed for many months replying to the initial proposals put by the Northern Land Council on behalf of the traditional owners. Yet the Aboriginal people were expected to respond within six weeks to the request to sign on the terms put forward by the Government in the mining interests. There was no opportunity for the local owners to have a translation of even the simplified English version of the agreement. They were harangued for some hours by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the  Chairman  of the Council in a way that alleged that they were responsible for holding up the progress of Australia. Four of the owners were induced to sign the agreement and a great celebration was then held at which souvenir pens were handed out. But at no time did the bulk of the owners or any members of the Northern Land Council feel that they understood what was being signed, why it was being signed or what their options were. In fact, no options were put to them. 
The then Minister and the Government have alleged that tapes were prepared in order to put the Government's proposals to those people in their own language. We have had no report in detail to this Parliament as to how these tapes were distributed, what facilities the Aborigines had for listening to them, whether the proposal was discussed with them after they had heard these tapes and, if they heard them, whether they were told that this would be the basis of the ultimatum that was being offered to them. I am sure that this has been a major factor in the loss of confidence of various Aboriginal groups in the Northern Land Council. There are now moves for various groups, such as the Walpiri people, to set up their own independent land councils. They feel disillusioned and let down. It seems that even though  Mr Yunupingu  has been induced to work for the Government in these negotiations, he is still complaining of pressure being exerted over the Nabarlek agreement. 
I think that it is high time that the Government brought forward in this House for debate- it has been debated in the Senate and carried unanimously- the motion which  Senator Bonner  moved in that chamber and which I have placed on the Notice Paper of this House though in terms adapted to this House. That motion recognises the prior ownership of this nation by the Aboriginal and island people and expresses the need for the Government on behalf of the later settlers who have dispossessed the Aboriginal people to make some firm and lasting commitment to compensate them for that dispossession. We have succeeded not only in wiping out whole tribes, language groups, nations, if you will, of Aboriginal people- this is so not only in Tasmania but also more particularly in the south eastern States- but also we have gone far to destroying other Aboriginal tribal structures throughout the nation. 
Since 1788. It is time that we did what has been done by the invading and conquering settlers in other British possessions, including New Zealand, North America and even South Africa, where formal treaties have been negotiated with particular national groups, tribal groups or language groups. It may be that we can negotiate a single agreement with a body that speaks for all of the Aborigines of this country, but that is a matter for them to determine and to negotiate. 
I commend to all Australians for discussion the proposals put forward by non-Aboriginal Australians headed by  Dr H.  C. Coombs. I hope that the negotiations involving those proposals will result in the emergence of a form of covenant or treaty of commitment between the present Government and the Aboriginal people. It will be a disgrace if something is not negotiated between now and 1988. I think that some move should be made this year. I think that the land rights issue has been expressed in the policies and platforms of all the major parties as a matter which is vital to the preservation of Aboriginal culture and to the recognition of the right of Aborigines to their identity and to selfmanagement. If the Aborigines do not have some guarantee of land that they can call their own, of some permanent economic structure to replace that land in cases where they cannot be permanently identified with it, then we are condemning them to an inferior status which should not be tolerated in this day and age. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Neil)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Is he proposing to sell the Fawnmac group of companies for a price less than three times their annual profit to the Government and less than half the price for which the Whitlam Government acquired the companies. 
What are (a) the grounds for this sale and (b) the disabilities which may result to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories if no priority is reserved for contracts undertaken for the C.S.L. by Fawnmac after the sale. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Has counsel for the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement disputed in court that payment of $74 per week for work entitling employees to an award wage of $ 1 35.82 as building workers was in breach of Federal law passed in 1975. 
Will the Minister support any proposal by Aborigines that back pay, due to them for the 6 months before proof of underpayment, might be given to their community in the form of land titles to the whole of their gazetted and/or traditional land. 
Will the government give adequate self-development funds to genuinely autonomous Queensland communities and deduct corresponding amounts from Federal grants to Queensland over a period of years corresponding to the period during which Aborigines have been underpaid by Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Will the Minister present the departmental assessment of the Nabarlek environmental impact study. 
) What has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs done to make good the criticism in that assessment of the lack of information in the study regarding the impact of the mining venture on Aboriginal people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
What steps were taken to ensure that former pastoral employees had adequate income to nourish their families since abolition of the training allowance in 1 973-74. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a petition drawn up by  Mr Ted  Skerse, senior partner of Dean Mildren and partners, directed to the Northern Territory Chief Minister, requesting termination of an Alice Springs Aboriginal Housing project in favour of constructing a separate village for the proposed Aboriginal tenants. 
If so, does the petition claim that the proposed tenants are: unemployed; unacquainted with the work ethic; incapable of removing unsanitary, putrid, domestic garbage and litter; ignorant of hygiene, by-laws and reasonable urban behaviour: subject to alcoholism; accustomed to extended families of scores of humans and canines; noisy, untidy in the streets; not desirous of coping with the responsibilities and stresses of urban living and therefore unhappy in urban housing; and that the proposed tenants damnify the non-Aboriginal petitioners of the neighbourhood who are different in all such respects; who are unable to maintain surveillance of their properties in working hours; are required to withstand the ravages of tax collection and provide essential services at all hours and who will lose sleep, health, the beauty of the town and the value of homes in which they have invested life savings, if the project proceeds. 
Have the petitioners been advised of the falsity and defamatory nature of those allegations. 
Has the Northern Territory Government acceded in large part to the petition despite allocation of Federal funds for the project. 
What consultation has occurred with prospective tenants before taking this action. 
Was the legal firm which drafted the petition retained by the Northern Land Council at $96,000 during 1978 and did it further engage as senior counsel for the NLC,  Mr Eric  Pratt for $30,000 in 1978. 
Has the same legal firm increased contract work with (he Aboriginal Legal Service since recent ALS committee changes and the informal appointment of a new Director on proposed terms drafted by the same firm. 
Are the minutes of the last annual meeting and the terms of the proposed agreement available to Aboriginal Legal Service members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
How many (a) Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and (b) others were employed at each level in (i) the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and (ii) organisations deriving their major public funding from the Department in (A) 1972-73, (B) 1975-76 and (C) 1978-79. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Can the Minister say whether members of the Northern Land Council on one or more occasions attempted to replace the  chairman  of the Council; if so, has the Minister's attention been drawn to allegations that the  chairman  avoided the issue by breaches of regular meeting procedure. 
Is the Minister able to say whether the  chairman  is alleged to have dismissed an employee of the Council without due authority. 
Can the Minister say whether the  chairman  satisfied the Council that he had met the requirement of land rights law, that traditional owners should fully understand the Ranger agreement before signing; if so, are the relevant resolutions of the Council recorded electronically and will a transcript be made public 
Did the Minister's immediate predecessor intervene to exclude employees at Maningrida against the expressed wishes of the community. 
What guidelines and rules govern the Minister's decisions or those of the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs to intervene in Aboriginal self-management where it may conflict with government policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that (a) Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders are trained to take over management of their communities in Queensland without inhibitions due to control by others of their domiciles, movements, transport, communications, employment, political activity or equal access to public amenities, ( b ) Aboriginal and Islander communities have similarly unfettered rights to (i) negotiate terms of entry to their land by mining interests, (ii) expand Federal Government grants with responsibility to Federal sources of State intervention and (iii) acquire joint ownership of pastoral or other leases or freehold land directly or through a Land Council or Federal authority as freely as other Australian or foreign interests do or to have reasons for refusal given to them or Federal authorities and (c) those aspects of Queensland law which breach Federal laws or international conventions on human rights are overridden and State Officials who breach these laws or conventions are punished. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports in the North Queensland  Messagestick  of September 1979 attributing certain comments to  Mr C.  Porter, Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Affairs Advancement. 
Has the Government legislated and undertaken to give self-management to Aboriginal communities on State reserves which demonstrate a two-thirds consensus in favour of this action. 
Has such a consensus been twice demonstrated by over two-thirds of the resident electors of Yarrabah electing Councillors on a platform of independence from the State Aboriginal Act. 
If so, is the Government's delay in meeting its obligations motivated by a desire to negotiate and obtain agreement first with the Queensland Government and later with the Reserve Council. 
In view of the consistent spurning of the letter and spirit of Federal law and policy by the Queensland Government and the remarks of  Mr Porter  about the impermanence of the Federal Government, will the request of Yarrabah Council be met before Parliament rises in 1979 or ever while the present State and Federal Governments remain in power. 
Will the Minister now disclose to Yarrabah Council the legal advice given to him on his power to remedy breaches of Federal law by the Queensland Government and provide adequate funds to the Council and the Aboriginal Legal Service in Queensland to expedite as far as possible the presentation of their case to Governments and Courts; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) What would be the base rate pension after adjustment, in November 1979 using (a) the existing indexation formula and (b) the (i) highest and (ii) lowest proportion of average male earnings reached by the base rate pension during the years 1970-79. 
When were the proportions referred to in part 1 (b) attained. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer whether the Moscow Narodny Bank is increasing its activities in Australia, even to the extent of lending $550,000 to one person. If so, what action has been or will be taken to ensure that Australian property acquired with loans from foreign owned and controlled banks will not be subject to mortgage agreements which provide that, in the event of failure to honour the loans, the property would be subject to foreign takeover? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
1 ) Were Bruce McGuinness and Gary Foley informed at Australia's Bonn Embassy in mid-June 1979 that the film  The Land My Mother  was not held there? 
Was the film made available from the Embassy to  Ms Nina  Gladitz about a week later? 
Were instructions received by the Embassy to restrict availability of the film; if so, why? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1) Has the Australian Capital Territory advised against the use of Bliss Symbols since 1978 but no other education authority has done so on any occasion. 
If so, was this ban based on legal advice in view of litigation pending in Canada by  Mr C.  K. Bliss, A.M., against violators of his copyrights. 
Did this advice also recommend that the Authority seek copyright from  Mr Bliss;  if so, has the Authority done so during August 1979 when meeting  Mr Bliss  in Canberra, so that handicapped children may resume the authorised use of his symbols which are in many cases their only available medium of significant communication. 
Will the Minister undertake to discourage only unauthorised distortions of Bliss Symbols and not the original logical symbols system made available freely by  Mr Bliss  and which have been praised by world leaders in philosophy, semantics linguistics, anthropology and medicine. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Has an employee of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Townsville, Queensland, been transferred as a result of findings by the Commonwealth Ombudsman that unemployment figures of Aborigines and Islanders have been falsified. 
If so, what is the extent of this falsification. 
What plans does his Department have for the future of the Aboriginal and Islander Employment Section at Townsville and to ensure that falsification is not occurring elsewhere. 
Has a  Mr Eddie  Marboo resigned as a result of the falsification in Townsville. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
Have directives, memoranda or minutes of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs been issued to the effect that no further Aboriginal housing is to be constructed on the reserve at The Mallee, New South Wales; if so, why. 
asked the Minister  respresenting  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
Is it a fact that early in 1 979 the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was instrumental in having a house built for the Nyampa Company at Menindee on the wrong block of land; if so, what action will the Department take to rectify this mistake. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
Did the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs grant Almond Growers, a non-Aboriginal company from Tamworth, NSW, an amount of $35,000 for growing almonds on the understanding that the company would employ 20 to 30 Aborigines. 
If so, did that company use the money to buy cattle for its own use and subsequently not employ any Aborigines. 
What action has the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs taken to recover the money so that it may be spent to the benefit of the Aboriginal people and not to the benefit of a non-Aboriginal company. 
Has the relevant Regional Director of the Department taken any action in relation to regaining the money. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Were 8 concrete block houses built at a cost of between $50,000 and $87,000 per house by Bakanji Ltd of Wilcannia and opened officially by the Prime Minister in 1976 condemned by the Central Darling Shire following a report from their Health Inspector. 
If so, why was there a rapid deterioration of those houses and why were funds not made available to ensure their maintenance at a level fit for the inhabitants. 
What was the official reason given by the Shire for the condemnation. 
Could the situation have been avoided by earlier action by the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs. 
If so, what is the justification for this negligence on the pan of the Depanment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs granted an amount of $3,750 to an unincorporated organisation, the Stanley Village Co-operative of Moree, to pay for rates and essential services debts. 
Did the unincorporated organisation use that money to pay for wages and motor vehicle and lawnmower repairs and not for the initially agreed purpose. 
If so, why did the Trustee of the moneys fail to ensure that they were spent according to the terms and conditions of the grant. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that $100,000 was provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for connection of sewerage and electricity to the Mallee by the Central Darling Shire. 
Is it also a fact that since those connections have been made, Departmental directives have been issued to the effect that no housing is to be constructed on the reserve. 
If so, is it a Departmental practice to provide funds for facilities and then ensure that those facilities will not be used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Central Land Council asked ( a) for Uluru and Katatajuta titles to go to a Land Trust under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, (b) the Trust to lease land to the Director of National Parks and (c) for a management body to be set up under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act with Aborigines having half the membership. 
If so, what has been done to meet these requests or otherwise to provide for preservation of Aboriginal control of the sacred places involved in accordance with traditional ownership acknowledged by the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
Were gazettals in 1977 and 1978 of the Ayers RockMount Olga National Park in breach of the freeze on alienation of Crown land until August 1980. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
1 ) Have Gulf of Carpentaria rivers south of Edward River recently been declared closed to commercial fishing; if so, has this resulted in a concentration of commercial fishing at Archer River and is this the major fishing ground of the Aurukun people. 
Have commercial fishermen been buying liquor by arrangement with a State Government employee based at Aurukun. 
i  If so, has this resulted in increased liquor sales to local Aborigines at black market prices. (4.) What steps has the Government taken to (a) safeguard the traditional fishing and hunting rights of the Aurukun people and (b) discourage illegal liquor sales and exploitation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister adopted the principle enunciated by his Department in November 1978 to the Aboriginal Affairs Council that individual States may have their own systems for conducting States services and the role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is in part to co-ordinate total inputs as part of the Commonwealth policy planning and financing responsibility based on Commonwealth legislation and the subject of agreements with States. 
Is this principle subject to the principles enunciated in Government joint party policy guaranteeing Aboriginal selfmanagement whenever and wherever State policies are not in agreement with Government policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon -notice, on 25 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an interim report of a South Australian Government working party on the need to strengthen the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act of that State. 
If so, did the report call for legal anthropological assistance if necessary to help Aborigines prepare a case for compulsory State acquisition of land on their behalf, with other interests providing opposing views. 
Was such a State power relinquished to the Federal Government in 1 973; if so, will the Federal Government implement the principles of this recommendation. 
Does the report also recommend that (a) entry permits the Aboriginal land be granted by Aboriginal representatives instead of by Government proclamation as at present and (b) disposal of crown mineral rights should be publicly debated. 
Are these recommendations consistent with (a) the Woodward report, (b) published Federal Government policy for the Northern Territory and (c) the Queensland Supreme Court findings on Aurukun which were rejected by the Queensland Government and reversed by the Privy Council; if so, will the Government seek the support of State Governments for the recommendations. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the water supply on Palm Island is unacceptably polluted? Is he aware also that, according to Palm Island hospital, in the past six weeks 90 Aboriginal children have been admitted to that hospital with gastro-enteritis, 20 of them being so seriously ill that they were transported to Townsville Hospital? How long has the Government been aware of the problem? What is being done to prevent further preventable grave illness and public health hazards in the region and in Aboriginal settlements run or serviced by the State of Queensland? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) Did he agree with other Ministers at the International Energy Agency Governing Board Meeting of 2 1 and 22 May 1979 that (a) the international nuclear fuel cycle evaluation is incomplete and needs to be completed successfully by early 1980 if effective action is to be taken to resolve long term waste disposal and non-proliferation questions and (b) there is an urgent need (i) for national and international efforts to ensure adequate safety systems to minimise the occurrence and consequence of nuclear plant accidents and (ii) to inform the public of the results. 
) What steps has he taken to meet these urgent needs. 
Does the statement make no declaration regarding other power sources and so conflict with previous assurances by Ministers that (a) safety of the nuclear power industry was higher than that of alternative power producing systems and (b) remaining technical arrangements to achieve commercial exploitation of solar power production are more complex. 
Does he support the New South Wales Government's decision to build a pilot solar power plant in western New South Wales. 
What hazards are likely and what precautions should be taken, for this project. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What are the (a) maximum and (b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the costs of administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Have Aborigines been expelled from Aurukun Shire for possession of liquor; if so, was this done by specific decision of the Aurukun Council or on the initiative of a paid official. 
Is possession of liquor on the reserve forbidden by Council regulation. 
Do regulations also forbid anyone leaving the Shire without authority; if so, whose authority. 
What regulations peculiar to Aurukun and/or Mornington Shires have been adopted on the recommendation of any Government official or any employee of the Council appointed or recommended for appointment by a Government or Government instrumentality. 
In what other Aboriginal communities in Queensland do similar regulations apply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1 979: 
1 ) Is the Minister able to say whetherthe Northern Land Council failed in its duty to satisfy itself that the Oenpelli land owners understood and accepted before signing an agreement allowing Queensland Mines to move ore by road instead of by sea as originally proposed. 
If so, what steps has the Government taken to ensure that the Council (a) is properly constituted pursuant to the events alleged to have occurred in question No. 4593 and (b) adheres to its obligations under land rights law. (3)Do the recent decisions of the Walpiri, Aranta and other peoples to form land councils independent of the N.L.C. indicate a growing disillusion with the bona fides and /or capacity of the N.L.C. to represent diverse Aboriginal interests in its region. 
If so, will the Government facilitate more direct access of Aboriginal communities to legal, anthropological and administrative aid not provided by the N.L.C. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What conditions were imposed, foreshadowed or suggested for restoration of Federal funding to Maningrida Council at or about the time of cessation of that funding. 
What action was taken by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to exclude former employees of the Council from Aboriginal land at Maningrida and under what authority. 
What was the response of the Maningrida community to this exclusion. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
Are pensioners and others in Queensland at times charged several hundred dollars for interim artificial limbs because in Queensland, but not in New South Wales, the State Government is held to be responsible for interim prostheses under the Commonwealth/State hospital costsharing agreement and a severe means test is applied to Queensland patients for exemption from these charges. 
Has this anomaly prevailed since my inauguration of the Free Limbs Scheme in 1973 when I was Minister for Health. 
Will he ensure that all limb prostheses recommended by public hospitals and veterans' hospitals are provided free of charge irrespective of the State and method of funding and, if necessary, at Australian Government expense. 
-The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has told us that the people at Yarrabah do not want the confrontation which the Australian Labor Party would offer them but that they want negotiation with Queensland. He thank them for their patience; but all patience has its limits. The people of Yarrabah applied on 30 January this year for federal intervention to achieve self-management. They have kept on asking not only for self-management but also for the very awards which the courts and the law of Queensland have not granted since that date. They released a statement on 4 June as follows: 
We, the elected persons constituting the Yarrabah Community Council, wish to notify the public of the following: 
On 14 May 1979 this Council sent a telex to  Senator Chaney,  Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, requesting: 
results of negotiations between the Federal and State Governments regarding self-management, full freehold title to land, mineral rights, water rights, fishing rights, timber rights, etc.; 
a meeting with  Senator Chaney  prior to any agreement being drawn up between the Federal and State Governments; and 
fulfilment of promises made by  Senator Chaney  to provide Yarrabah Council with funds to employ a project officer. 
To date no response has been made to the issues raised in that telex and we believe we are being ignored and treated with contempt in the same manner the Aurukun and Mornington . Island peoples were. Therefore we insist that this Council be involved in all discussions and at all levels with Federal and State representatives concerning Yarrabah. 
This Council has decided that prior to any work or use of land presently under our jurisdiction (that is within Yarrabah boundaries) permission must be given from this Council and not the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
This decision has been made to stop the mis-use of our land by State authorities who in the past have displayed wanton disregard through bulldozing our land, blatant destruction of our fauna, the unauthorised handing over all our land for things such as deep water ports, tourist complexes, pine tree forests, etc., etc. 
This callous destruction has raped us of our natural heritage and has had a soul destroying effect on our lifestyles and values. 
This Council has become an incorporated body and therefore has the power of right to manage our own finances. Accordingly we demand that in respect of all aspects of funding concerning Yarrabah the Federal Government fund this Council 'direct' not through the State Government. 
We investigated all the facts as far as possible during the time we were in government. In Opposition we have continued to investigate them. The present Government has continued to investigate these matters since. The action that was not taken by the Labor Government should have been taken long before this stage as it is almost a year since the Yarrabah people applied. I am not against negotiating with the Queensland Government. When I became shadow Minister for Aboriginal affairs, one of my first acts was to write to  Mr Porter,  the Queensland State Minister. I offered him consultations to find out on what matters concerning Aboriginals we could co-operate. I offered him discussions, but his response was that there could not possibly be anything we could have in common and he did not propose ever to meet me. On another occasion, I courteously requested him to release to me the statements that he made publicly.  His  reply was that I could read them in  Hansard.  That is the sort of person whom the Minister says one can negotiate with. The Minister must get a different response from  Mr Porter  if he thinks that he is negotiating. 
The Minister told us that it would be premature to announce what the negotiations have achieved. He then told us what the negotiations are hoping to achieve. He said that selfmanagement of the Council, the land and land tenure is being sought. For God 's sake, how long does one have to say these are being sought? They were being sought even before the Yarrabah people asked about them. They were being sought by the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has flown there twice, and will go there again to seek the proper tenure or use of the land by those people who own it. 
In the Northern Territory this problem would have been solved in one hit. We have achieved this objective in the Northern Territory simply by not giving the Northern Territory Government the sorts of powers that the Queensland Government has arrogated to itself in defiance of the 1967 referendum which decided that the Federal Government ought to have the power to pass laws in these matters. In the light of that referendum result, I believe that there has been enough negotiation. Had the Labor Government continued in office, I confidently state that, within a matter of months after we were thrown out of office, this confrontation would have occurred. We were preparing for it. Ministers have only to look at the records of the Department to see that the escalation of confrontation was continuing. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  I, and other honourable members on this side of the House have indicated our bona fides in this matter by the amendments we have moved to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Bill. I asked the Minister to discuss this Bill with me. I tried twice to discuss the matter with him before the Bill came to this House. I said that he should accept the Opposition's amendment that it not be just the designated reserves that the Government take over but all reserves gazetted as at 3 1 March 1978. He said that there was nothing we could discuss about the Opposition amendments; the Government had made up its mind. That was said by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs who is at the table when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
A few weeks after that conversation, when it appeared that the Opposition amendments could have saved the day, prevented the de-gazettal of the reserves and given the people genuine selfmanagement not a local council which has to be observed by the Minister every few monthsSenator Kathy Martin from Queensland said that in retrospect it may have been wiser if the Government had had a closer look at the Opposition's amendments. The Government did not have to ask the Opposition's permission to look at the amendments. Anybody concerned with land rights in Queensland could have told the Government what was about to happen. There is no excuse for dilly-dallying. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised the matter of poor housing and atrocious town planning. The houses are cheek by jowl within spitting distance of each other. Dust clouds from the road are going over the houses each time a car passes. However, once one gets out of the township onto the rest of the reserve, there is a beautiful sealed road all the way into Cairns. Town planning takes note only of priorities that save money for the State Government. If the houses were spaced properly apart it may be necessary to put in a few more yards of water pipes. There is no consultation with the Yarrabah Council. The Yarrabah Council issued a Press release on the matter in June and it is still saying: 'Why cannot we be in on the negotiations? You are negotiating for selfmanagement, not for a modus vivendi between the Federal Government and the State Government'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for joining the philosophy of democratic socialism and establishing for us this evening that the biggest influences on centralism and dehumanising the economic system under which we live are to be found not in the public sector but in the private sector. I want to follow up several of his points because I think that they are relevant to the system of grants to Queensland, to the future of Queensland and to the philosophy of the Queensland Government, which is an extreme example of the philosophy of this Federal Government. 
The honourable member spoke of the handing over to the Federal Government of the rail systems in Tasmania and South Australia. Of course, the metropolitan rail system in South Australia is still a State function. The Queensland Government could have handed its losing proposition- its losing enterprise in the railways- to the Federal Labor Government at the same time if it so wished, but it chose not to do so. It may well be that that sort of preservation of a decentralised control of railways may have been productive. I will not argue for or against it at this stage, although Australia would have been enormously better off if we had had a unified railway system from the beginning, particularly uniform rail gauges. I want to take up the honourable member's point about the mining railways, the new rail systems that have been put down to take enormous tonnages of coal in particular for export to Japan and mainly from open cut mines in the Bowen Basin in Queensland. These mining revenues are enormous and are growing faster than those of any other mining enterprise in this country. 
I believe that the Federal Government was correct in putting a higher levy on the open cut mines than it put on the underground mines, that is, the deeper coal recovery that occurs particularly in New South Wales. After the cream has been skimmed off, as it were, and the more accessible edges of the basin have been taken by open cut mining, one then gets into a more expensive operation. This is what will happen eventually in Queensland. I think that it is fair enough to put a loading on the open cut mines so that it becomes more economic and more reasonable to exploit the deeper coal deposits from the older established coal mining areas. I am not arguing for my own State in this regard; I am arguing for a sensible and rational policy that spreads the burdens and benefits as evenly as possible. 
When we talk of the enormous burst of prosperity in Queensland, Western Australia and to a lesser extent the Northern Territory, where uranium and other projects have been boosted to the skies as the great saviours of our economy, I think that we ought to look a little further ahead and ask ourselves what will be the eventual outcome of this sort of emphasis, this sort of stress. Are we really going to restore self-reliance, a permanent security and prosperity to this country by concentrating on getting our limited resources, our finite resources, out of the ground at a faster and faster rate? Certainly it has a snowballing effect and a multiplier effect. As the coal is taken out by bigger and bigger machines using more and more imported capital machinery, meaning fewer and fewer jobs for every $lm invested, Australia becomes a cheaper energy country. This cheap energy attracts other industries. In particular, it attracts aluminium smelting, which is now going ahead at a faster rate in my electorate than it is anywhere else in Australia. 
The construction of the biggest aluminium smelter in the world is now commencing at Gladstone. It already has the biggest alumina refinery. One or two other companies are hopping on the band wagon to smelt their aluminium in central Queensland, which has the cheapest power in Australia. It is cheaper than the power from the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. The aluminium will be exported in much lower tonnages than would the coal if the smelting were to occur overseas. The enormous savings in freight by exporting refined aluminium rather than coal and alumina are the only factors which determine that the big producers of aluminium are coming to Queensland and to this country. 
The Queensland Premier in particular, the Queensland Government and to a lesser extent the Commonwealth Government, have made much of the enormous wealth that this brings to Australia. What they do not tell us is who gets that wealth, where it goes in Australia and how much of it goes straight out again. They do not stress the fact that most of the capital equipment involved is imported and has to be paid for with Australian dollars. They do not stress the fact that because of the enormous mechanisation in mining as compared with any other industry a comparatively trivial amount goes into labour costs and into providing jobs for Australians. They do not stress that the companies which invest in these mines also invest in or have associates in shipping, insurance and manufacture overseas and in buying the aluminium overseas. They can so manipulate the costs and charges that they can make no profits or minimum profits in this country from the exercise of turning bauxite into alumina and alumina into aluminium. 
For at least 10 years I have been saying publicly in my electorate and in this Parliament that the people who produce alumina do not disclose their cost structure. They are overwhelmingly foreign-owned firms. They sell overseas most of their alumina or the aluminium which is produced from their facilities at Bell Bay and which will be produced from their facilities in Queensland as well as at smaller facilities in New South Wales and elsewhere. They do not have to make any profit on that exercise at all; so they do not have to pay any company tax. If they were genuinely showing the costs and market prices that would exist in a free enterprise system they would be paying substantial company tax. Something like half their profits would be going to the general public. That is not the case. They do not disclose these figures. 
Years ago when I first raised this matter, the manager of Queensland Alumina Ltd in Gladstone wrote me a letter. He said that he noticed that I had made public statements about this matter. He asked: 'Do you not realise that the Federal Treasurer has the authority to declare what he thinks is a fair proportion of tax, what he thinks is a fair assessment of the profit made in this operation, and he can tax us accordingly?' I wrote that I was not terribly concerned about what power he has. What I am concerned about is whether he is doing it. Does he take that tax off the company? Years later I am still waiting for a reply to that letter. There are enormous resources in Queensland. Some of them are far more renewable than coal and alumina. There are enormous water resources, but they will be much more costly to harness comparatively, than the waters of the Snowy scheme because of the highly irregular seasons and rainfall on the Queensland coast. If we are to have an industrialised community which will use enormous quantities of water in industry as well as a bigger population in this country, I believe that that is where the increased population will have to go. 
I do not think it has been stressed enough that when the last large dam was being built in the Murray-Darling system- I am speaking of a time within the last decade- there was great debate, dispute and acrimonious argument between the farmers of Victoria and the Melbourne water authority as to who was to get most of that water. Melbourne was suffering severe water restrictions. It was going through a bad drought and the farmers were having a bad time. In my view, there is no case for increasing the population of Victoria while we have to get our water in the sorts of ways we get it now- without taking it out of the sea or through some other very costly system. The only place where more people could be put if we are going to need water on the scale on which we use it is coastal Queensland. But it is going to cost. 
Many cost benefit analyses have been done on the main water systems of coastal Queenslandthe Burdekin, the Burnett, the Fitzroy, the Herbert and two or three other rivers. These water systems certainly offer potential but there is no long range proposal coming forward from this Government to give money to or to assist planning in Queensland to develop that sort of permanent and renewable resource for permanent and renewable settlement and industry. I believe that cost benefit analyses have been doneparticularly those initiated by  Dr Rex  Patterson who was Australia's first Minister for Northern Development- to assess whether it is worth while to implement the Burdekin scheme and the Bundaberg region. It was proposed that similar cost benefit analyses be provided on other proposals. I do not know whether this Government has followed up the proposal sufficiently. Even to this day I do not think that it has done a thorough assessment of the costs and benefits of the Burdekin proposal. This is an urgent need. Unless we are prepared to look at such long range planning on which all private industry depends- it depends on the public sector to do this basic planning- I believe that State and Federal governments are copping out. They are not meeting their obligations with regard to Queensland's development. It is the north of Australia where development must occur. Industrial and social development must be planned on a large scale with Federal assistance not only in Queensland but also in Western Australia and in the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member for Lilley said that he is concerned that the quicker development that is occurring in the north, particularly in Queensland, is not reflected in household incomes. This is a concern that members on this side of the House have been expressing for a long time. It is the first time that I have heard it expressed from the other side of the House. The Premier of Queensland for months and years has been claiming: 'We are the greatest. Queensland is the State that is carrying Australia on its back. It is the State that year after year has its budget in the black while Canberra is going into the red. ' Why is it that he can get away with those sorts of statements when Queensland has the lowest standard of living? As the honourable member said, if it is not the lowest, it is the second lowest in recent years in the whole of Australia. The honourable member gave us what I believe is a simplistic explanation. He says that all we have to do to solve that problem is to make the big companies smaller, spread the head offices and put more head offices in Queensland. To an extent I agree with him. I agree that there needs to be decentralisation in the private sector and in the public sector. I am not very enamoured of the sort of decentralisation that Fraser federalism implies, where one hands over one's responsibilities entirely to the States, which are acting very irresponsibly in some of the areas in which they have had responsibility given to them. I do not have to go past Aboriginal affairs, which was discussed in this House today, to give an example of that sort. 
It is certainly a good move to have head offices and management skills spread around, to get the management a little closer to the people to whom the honourable member referred- the people at the coal face, on the factory floor, and so on. I am all for it. Honourable members on this side of the House are all for it and always have been. We have always stressed the need for more participation, more co-operation, more collaboration and more discussion between the employees, the employers and the Government- a tripartite approach. We can make that a four-way discussion by bringing in the consumers as well. Governments are concerned primarily in representing consumer interests, and consumers are becoming better organised and more vocal as time goes on, just as unions in past decades have become more organised and more vocal in representing the work force. 
Unless we can get decentralisation and genuine participation in all those senses- with a sharing of the control of industry between not just the investors and the bureaucrats employed by their money, where the manipulators who sit on the company boards manipulate their bureaucrats in the private sector and manipulate the workers and the consumers through advertising and otherwise, as puppeteers might- and unless we get interest and concern from consumers and employees, then we do not have industrial democracy and we are going to have all the evils of the centralisation of the private  sector  which has been stressed by the honourable member for Lilley. Those evils will include increasing industrial disputes, increasing industrial confrontation and increasing dislocation of essential services in this country. The Government's solution is not to decentralise and to facilitate discussion between those sectors. The Government's solution is to use the big stick, to put in restrictive laws aimed at one side only in the dispute; namely, the side which does not have the control of market decisions, which does not have the control of the monopoly interests which are increasingly taking over the coal, alumina and other industries that are getting so big so fast. 
The honourable member also did not tell us what happened to the money that goes into these huge developments. I could perhaps draw to his attention countries such as Bolivia, which rode on the backs of the tin mines, and Chile and the Congo, which made their export wealth out of copper. Are we to go the way of those countries? Is that the sort of wealth Bjelke-Petersen is offering us? It is the sort of argument that he is using. We are getting more and more coal and bauxite out. We are going to have more and more steel mills. We are going to put a railroad across to Western Australia to enable Queensland and Western Australia to exchange their coal and iron ore. That is the approach of Bjelke-Petersen. That is the approach of" Congo, Bolivia and Chile development. It is not an approach for a better standard of living for the people who have to do the mining and the people who have to live at the ends of those great railroads. 
Finally, I stress that the worst centralisation in the public sector in this country is not the centralisation that was alleged to have been initiated by the Federal Labor Government. We did a lot of decentralisation with the Australian Assistance Plan, our community health schemes, our school dental schemes, our urban and regional development schemes and many other schemes. The biggest and the most inhibiting centralisation is occurring in the State of Queensland where one cannot even order a new brand of syringe for a hospital without consulting Brisbane; where there is such secrecy and such a centralised dictatorship developing that Queensland has been compared not only to the deep south of America but also to some of the central and south American republics; where, if things were allowed to develop that way for too long, we would have a change of government with guns. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 6 June 1979 by Shaun Mcllraith stating that there is a 75 per cent higher chronic bronchitis rate and 100 per cent higher death rate among Aboriginal asbestos miners than non-miners and a 40 per cent lapse in health standards at the Baryulgil asbestos mines detected by the New South Wales Department of Mines. 
Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs suspended housing grants to the district pending a decision on the health risks of living there. 
) What steps have been taken to obtain a prompt assessment of that risk so that the appropriate advice on living sites can be given to those urgently in need of housing. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Was a cost benefit analysis conducted on the Burdekin River Dam; if so, what were its conclusions. 
Will he make available to the Parliament a copy of the report or analysis. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What are the (a) maximum and (b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the cost of administration of his Department devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the Prime Minister promised in the 1977 election campaign to provide a government guarantee for savings in permanent building societies. 
Did the Minister for Finance reaffirm the Prime Minister's pledge in April 1979. 
If so, what progress has been made to fulfil the promise. 
Is he able to say when these savings will be as safe as those in savings banks. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) What sanctions, other than warnings of non-renewal or in fact not renewing a licence, are appliedby the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to enforce television program standards. 
What monitoring of standards is carried out by the Tribunal. 
What publicity, including encouragement of viewers to report breaches, is given to the standards and by whom. 
Does the Tribunal make public the warnings it issues; if so, where may these be seen by viewers; if not, will he take steps to ensure prominent publicity, including admission by the broadcaster on a comparable program of the breaches, in terms satisfactory to the Tribunal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
Will the Minister arrange for screenings in Parliament House, Canberra, of a series of films produced for public information and education by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
-As my colleague the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has indicated, the Opposition is not opposed to the Sugar Agreement Bill. We welcome moves towards stabilising the basis for the setting of prices. Of course, I join with the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  in the hope that the Government will make use of the escape clause if it appears that the formula is too rigid. There are some features of the formula which have not been explained. It may be that in spite of the very long negotiations which took place to arrive at this formula it was not possible to state with absolute precision the terms upon which it was arrived at. Certainly, the Industries Assistance Commission was not unanimous in its recommendations. Perhaps this formula is the best compromise that it was able to come up with in the time available. 
The honourable member for Werriwa stressed the fact that the nitrogenous fertiliser has been one of the major cost inputs of the industry. The Government has not abided by its policy in this particular area. In the 1977 election campaign it guaranteed that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty would not be touched. As it happens, it has eroded this fertiliser subsidy to an extent which has had a major impact on the costs of the industry. That is one of the major reasons, perhaps, for the very high rise in the domestic price of sugar which has been agreed on this year; it is much higher than would have been achieved had the present formula applied. 
It is also pertinent to draw attention to the honourable member for Werriwa 's reference to the fact that this price rise is related to the Government's fuel policy. Certain honourable members opposite were interjecting their objection to this proposition. Let me point out how the fuel policy has been unrealistic and as the honourable member said, has been a revenue raising policy rather than a fuel policy. Seventy per cent of our petroleum is Australianproduced. In the case of petrol, 90 per cent is Australian produced. The Australian Labor Party is not opposed to world parity pricing for newly discovered oil deposits. We are not opposed to the encouragement of the search for oil, the production of new oil, by offering the world parity price. We are opposed to the imposition of this price for old oil, such as that produced by Esso-BHP. Esso-BHP gets something like $5 a bartel for oil that costs it a little over $ 1 a barrel. The Government is raking off something like $17 a barrel, so every petrol pump has become a tax collection centre. We reject the proposition that extending the world parity price payment to old oil has encouraged exploration in this country. It is the extension of the world parity price to new oil which has encouraged exploration. It is not the old oil price which has encouraged the discovery of oil reserves at Surat in Queensland. It is not the windfall handout to Esso-BHP which has encouraged moves to ' develop Rundle shale oil in my electorate. 
Not only has the Government reneged on its promises with regard to the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty, but it has also, I believe, been less than frank in its policy in relation to another major input of the sugar industry in determining its predictability and its independence from the vagaries of the weather^ I refer to the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. As late as about four months before the 1977 election the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was saying that the Federal Government would not be putting money into water resources programs; that that was a matter for the States. It was only in later months when the Government's credibility and its appeal to the electorate appeared to be waning that it decided that perhaps it had better do something about a water resources program. It made available $200m over a five-year period. Very much less than one-fifth of the funds for the five-year program have sq far been released. To that extent the Bundaberg project- the project that is most important for the stability for the sugar industry- has been allowed to lag and the skilled workforce has been allowed to erode and disappear. In fact, a very low priority has been given to the project. The result has been that this year some growers who are dependent on irrigation for viability, stability and some continuity in their rate of output have been gravely disadvantaged. Certainly, those growers in irrigated areas have not been disadvantaged. Many of them have produced well above the quotas and peaks for this year. 
The Government ought to be giving priority to implementing the findings of the cost-benefit analysis that was done in relation to the Bundaberg irrigation scheme under  Dr. Rex  Patterson as Minister for Northern Development during the Whitlam years. That cost-benefit analysis proved the viability of this scheme. In the terms that he as Minister then expressed, it was one that would benefit an area of proven capacity- an established area which was demonstrably devastated periodically by drought. In fact, the Bundaberg area has the most uncertain rainfall of any of the sugar producing areas and is one of the least developed areas with regard to irrigation resources.. 
Let me refer again-to a promise made by the Leader of the National Country Party in the 1977 election campaign when he said that the great achievement of the International Sugar Agreement would be that it would shortly increase the price of sugar to the target floor price of $2 10 a tonne. Until the last month or so when this price was reached the ISA certainly was not able to achieve that objective. I do not think it would have achieved it had it not been for a panic in the world currency markets which led to people rushing to buy resources of any kindcommodities that could be stored, including sugar. That probably accounted for that sudden rise in price to something over $200 a tonne, which price has no great prospect, f believe, of lasting for any great length of time. 
I wish to refer also to the charge that is frequently directed towards the Labor Party, in government or in opposition, that we stand for some kind of centralised bureaucratic socialism which is inefficient, which will downgrade the quality of life for Australians and which has been proven to be counter-productive in achieving economic growth. The sugar industry is the clear and continuing example of the fallacy of that sort of argument. Labor governments set up the first agreement between the Queensland Government and the Federal Government in what the honourable member for Herbert nicely described as a 'managed industry' with 'administered 'prices - 
That is right. He quoted from the Industries Assistance Commission report. I am not denying that at all, but it is interesting that these terms are used when members opposite find an agreement acceptable. When they find ari agreement unacceptable they say it is a product of doctrinaire socialist bureaucracy. They call it communistic dictatorship. If that is so, the most communist administration in this country must be the Queensland Government. The point is that all industries - 
Guided democracy like Sukarno, as the honourable member interjects. The fact is that every industry in this country ought to be managed. I do not believe that one would have to have centralised government dictatorship and government bureaucracy, any more than one would have to have private enterprise centralised bureaucracy but, unfortunately, in many industries, that is exactly what we do have. If one wants to call a centralised bureaucracy communism, one of the most communised industries in this country must be the oil industry. 
There are many major industries which control, plan, manage and administer our economy and prices that are in the so-called private sector and in many cases beyond the reach of governments- even the biggest governments- in the world because they are capable of moving their resources and pricing across legislative borders. 
The sugar industry then is a sensible and logical mix of private enterprise and public control. I believe that is what democratic socialism is all about. It is what the Labor Party is all about and has achieved. It has become acceptable to all parties in an industry like the sugar industry. It is just a shame that the Government had not moved a little faster to achieve some sort of management and administration for an industry that has been crying out for them since the days of the slump in the beef industry. There is room for a referendum probably at this stage among beef producers to see what sort of management and administration of prices they could well do with to stabilise their industry for the sake of producers and consumers. 
The formula is something that will tend to puzzle people who try to read the legalese of the schedule to the sugar agreement. I refer to one paragraph concerning factor E. In the agreement it is denned as: 
E is the ratio of the average return on exports within mill peaks in the season that precedes the season immediately prior to the year in respect of which the price is to be ascertained to that same average return in the season immediately prior to that year. 
One needs to be something of a bush lawyer to work out that paragraph. After many tries I found out that it means the ratio of the years previous export price to the ratio of a year later. In other words, the ratio of two years ago over the ratio of one year ago - 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  has said that in his words. I am trying to explain how one has to unravel this involved wording to understand that formula. As the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  pointed out, for some reason we are not told why this counter-cyclical formula is used for sugar but the reverse is used for wheat and other industries. Nevertheless, with the escape clause, no doubt some adjustment will be possible if this agreement appears to be unworkable or unjust. 
The matter of the fixing of fruit prices also was raised by the honourable member for Werriwa. I stress here that, when the Labor Government went to the people of Australia suggesting that prices and incomes ought somehow to be managed, administered and controlled on a national basis and not just on a State basis, every member of the present Government parties was opposed to that proposition. That proposition was fairly narrowly defeated. It appears so obvious and logical that we ought to have some controls and administration of prices, in the case of sugar and preserved fruits using sugar, that one wonders how the Government can accept its own proposition on this occasion and yet be so blind to the benefits of the proposition in other industries. How can it accept the pricing of petrol which is doing much to prop up its policy of eliminating the deficit and yet cannot accept it for bread, for meat or for the ordinary commodities that the man in the street is concerned about? Indeed, the Government cannot accept it for all the prices included in the Consumer Price Index- which is the way to control inflation, as the Curtin Government did. I think it limited inflation to 2 to 3 per cent over several years - 
The Curtin and Chifley governments. 
They had other controls, but basically national controls. They had the sorts of controls that the States have now and are unwilling to exercise or give to the Federal Government. This is an excellent example how prices can be stabilised. The Labor Government was in a position where it could say: 'All right, if you can demonstrate that the price of your inputs has gone up, we will allow you to increase your prices accordingly, but no more. You do not put a percentage rake-off on top of that'. If it was an item that was in the CPI, a subsidy was put on it at that point. For example, if somebody had to import aluminium which was needed in the production of one of the essential foods which was at that stage featured in the CPI, the price of importing that aluminium was subsidised and no rise in the price of the item occurred. If this Government really wanted to control inflation it would have backed the Labor Government in its referendum to control prices and incomes. The Opposition supports the Bill. We commend the progress in negotiations with free enterprise growers and the more stable basis for their industry and their livelihood. We regret the secrecy that still prevails among the oligopoly that represents sugar processing. I do not believe it would occur if there were more sugar cooperatives in the industry and less of the 60 families which sit on the boards of management and control the biggest business in Australia. I believe that we have to move towards more open government in the industrial scene as we do in the political scene. When that day comes I believe that growers, consumers and the smaller investors will be recognised at last as the people who should have a say in our industry- whether it is sugar or anything else- and not a few people with knighthoods who sit on the boards of management keeping secret their transactions among each other, the industries that they administer, including the financial institutions, and their deals with multinational firms with which they trade. The sugar industry is a good example of control within this country. Fortunately, its control has not become transnational. Let us hope that it never becomes so and that it moves towards greater democracy and that the formula now arrived at will be revised in the direction of greater inputs from the consumers of this country, the growers who produce this sugar and the small investors in the companies which are concerned with the processing, selling and distribution of sugar not only within our country but also overseas. 
The only other aspect that I think might be given some attention is our overseas marketing arrangements. I believe that the sugar industry should not be left with the burden of having to make these arrangements. They should be a matter of national policy. Indicative planning in all our industries should include the full range of marketing, not only the home market but also the foreign market. I hope that the Government will look at all these matters and that it will increase its consultation with the growers and with consumer organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1 979: 
1) Did a finance and planning officer of the Aboriginal Lands Trust,  Mr George  Kolsky, resign in September 1979 charging the Department of Aboriginal Affairs with wasteful funding by appointing trustees, usually accountants, for nonincorporated Aboriginal bodies (a) without a trust deed and (b) with no authority to see that the conditions of the grant are met and thereby rendering them liable for actions beyond their control. 
Did  Mr Kolsky  also describe Bourke and Broken Hill regional funding conferences as irrevalent to problems of Aborigines, providing no contact with them to determine their needs. 
Did  Mr Kolsky  allege misspending because public servants go on a splurge to balance books each 3 months to ensure continued funding. 
If the position is as stated, what steps have been taken to revise the funding, monitoring and accounting methods concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Have any houses built at Wilcannia for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs or Bakandji Ltd, been condemned by the Shire of Central Darling; if so, how many and why. 
Has the area officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs duly reported the deteriorated state of any houses. 
Were funds available to ensure adequate maintenance; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 October 1 979: 
1 ) Was a former employee of the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs subsequently engaged by an Aboriginal organisation at Katherine in the Northern Territory. 
Is this former employee still employed with that organisation; if not, what were the circumstances which led to the cessation of his employment. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will recall his reply to my question on notice of 4 April, as recorded at page 1545 of  Hansard,  wherein he outlined plans to provide coin telephone links for Cape 
York and Torres Strait communities by about mid- 1979 as a means of obviating censorship and eavesdropping on behalf of the Queensland State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to  Senator Keeffe  's disclosure- as recorded in Senate  Hansard  of 8 November- of the text of a strictly confidential telex from a Federal official and a telegram from the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the Yarrabah Council near Cairns, and to the honourable senator's reference to other telegrams copied by State employees on behalf of the State Minister? Has his attention been drawn to assurances of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs as recorded in Senate  Hansard  of 13 November, page 2154? What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that telegram operators at Yarrabah and at other Aboriginal settlements in Queensland observe their oath of allegiance and do not continue to act as undercover agents of the State Aboriginal affairs administration? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to a circular to all Members and Senators requesting a resolution of the Parliament to facilitate a Treaty of Peace and Friendship with the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
If so, is the proposal consistent with stated Government policy. 
Will a committee of the Parliament concerned with Aboriginal Affairs be asked to investigate the proposal and report to Parliament their recommendations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
How much rent from how many houses (a) was collected and (b) should have been collected at Toomelah, NSW, Mogo, NSW, Purfleet, NSW, Cowra, NSW and Roseby Park via Nowra, NSW in 1 978-79. 
What sum has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs provided to each organisation to meet local government and public utility charges as a result of non-collection of rent. 
Do these funds come from the provision for expenditure under Grants-in-Aid- Housing; if not, under what budget item is it paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 October 1 979: 
What sum was granted to the (a) Jerringah Tribal Council Housing Company Ltd, (b) Bakandji Limited, (c) Aboriginal Housing Company of the South Coast Ltd and (d) Aboriginal Housing Company of Redfern in 1978-79 and how many houses were built with that money. 
Did these organisations also receive funds from other Departments; if so, what sums from which Departments and for what reason. 
If additional grants were provided, were they used in the construction of housing by those organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
What charges are owed to local councils and public utilities by the Aboriginal housing organisations, situated at Toomelah, Mogo, Purfleet, Cowra and Roseby Park, New South Wales. 
Is the Government still funding these organisations regardless of rent collected. 
Does the Government provide money to other Aboriginal, organisations, such as the New South Wales Aboriginal Lands Trust, to pay overdue council rates and public utility charges in the same circumstances; if not why not. 
-As I indicated in the second reading discussion we do not believe that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has adequately explained this clause. We believe that the original funding formulas are the most appropriate for funding land councils. We do not propose to divide and detain the Committee but we request that the Minister review the question raised by this final clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
Clause 6, page 2, proposed section 37a, sub-section ( 1 ), omit' Minister' (twice occurring), substitute 'Parliament'. 
As I explained at the second reading stage we believe that financial statements coming from land councils should be open to the perusal of the Parliament, an elected body, and not just a member of the Executive. In view of the stringencies of time on the debate we have agreed not to divide on this clause but the Opposition stands by this amendment as it did in the Senate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 13- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Certain payments to be deemed to be, and to have been validly made). 
Opposition members have been limited to 15 minutes for discussion of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1979. That is a little outrageous when one considers that six people spoke in the Senate for a total of some hours. However, the order of discussion was a matter for the Presiding Officer in the Senate as it is for you in this chamber,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  There are many ramifications of land rights which can legitimately be commented on in debating this Bill. However, I must confine myself mainly to reiterating what has already been outlined in the Senate. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Government as soon as possible should extend by legislation the rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory to Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory '. 
The reason for moving this amendment has been put succinctly in the Senate debate. What this amendment amounts to is that Aborigines at Wreck Bay have had their reserve land progressively whittled away in the interests of the sort of economic exploitation that has occurred in relation to Aboriginal land from the day of white settlement in this country. The Aboriginal people at Wreck Bay are the traditional owners of the land, the descendants of the traditional owners and their visitors and friends. When their land is taken from them, it it used largely for the recreation of people who do not want to settle there for such long periods as do most of the Aboriginal people. The Aboriginals there are just as entitled as the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory to have an independent determination of their attachment to the land, their traditional ownership of the land and their need for the use and development of the land. 
The response of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in the Senate was to the effect that he thought that it was more appropriate to deal with the matter as the Northern Territory Government dealt with land claims in such cities as Darwin and Alice Springs. I submit to the House that that is not an appropriate course. The whole aim and spirit of land rights legislation indicates that this land should be dealt with on the same basis as any other land which is assigned, recognised and reserved for Aborigines as their traditional land. Because of the limits of time and because I desire to leave time for other speakers to follow me in this debate, the Opposition does not propose to divide on its amendments. We believe that the divisions in the Senate indicate the position of the parties and the commitment of the Government to oppose all of our amendments. Nevertheless, we will put them to the vote merely on the voices. 
I turn to the other points in the Bill to which we wish to object. I refer, first of all, to the fairly arbitrary assignment of money from the Aboriginal Benefit Trust Account to the land councils of the Northern Territory on the grounds that they have had exceptional expenses. The Ranger agreement was arrived at after very expensive expert opinion had been called by the Northern Land Council. That agreement was then recognised as legitimate by the Government. It was written into the Ranger agreement that special funding would be given by the Government to cover those costs. The Aboriginal Benefit Trust Account formula is for 40 per cent of the royalty payments for minerals extracted from the land to be paid to land councils, 30 per cent to be paid to the local traditional owners of the land concerned, and the remaining 30 per cent to be paid towards the general welfare of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. That formula is to be departed from by taking some money out of the 30 per cent for the general welfare of Aborigines in the Northern Territory and giving it to the land councils to cover extra administrative costs. 
If it is good enough for the Government to recognise that in the case of the Ranger agreement costs beyond that 40 per cent should have been met from other than the agreed mineral royalty payments, surely it is also good enough for other unforeseen administrative expenses to come from general government revenue and not from particular benefits that are gained under royalty agreements. Certainly, that is not laid down in the terms of the Ranger agreement, but there is an understanding which the Aborigines are entitled to have honoured in the 40:30:30 formula. In my view the Minister has not given an adequate reason why this understanding should not be recognised and honoured. There is also provision in the Bill for legal aid to be given to persons other than Aborigines who appear before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. Surely, if the administrative costs of others are seen to be costs which can legitimately be met from general revenue they should not also have to come out of land council funds by manipulating the formula in relation to royalties. 
The Opposition agrees with the Minister when he says that there should be funding to persons other than Aboriginals who incur legal expenses in appearing before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. The Minister did not spell out- if a Minister is to respond to this debate I would like him to spell it out- that among those appearing before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner whose legal expenses will be met by the Government will be pro-Aboriginal organisations other than land councils. Land councils have shown themselves not always to be fully apprised of the rights and interests of local traditional land owners. In fact, they have caused quite a deal of dissillusionment, particularly in the Ranger case, through their lack of communication and consultation with the traditional owners. I think it would be most appropriate if the Minister were to indicate clearly that legal assistance would be given to anyone who appeared before the Commission and who had legitimate interests on the side of the Aboriginal claimants. I refer to such organisations as the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, Aboriginal legal services or voluntary organisations like the Campaign against Racial Exploitation. 
We appreciate the co-operation of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in accepting what he defined as the Cavanagh amendment.  Senator Cavanagh,  on behalf of the Opposition, suggested the amendment to him as a means of ensuring due supervision by the Parliament of changes to statutes. However, I think the Minister did not adequately explain why he does not accept a similar principle in relation to clause 6, proposed section 37A, sub-section ( 1 ), where we have foreshadowed an amendment to omit the word 'Minister' twice occurring and substitute the word 'Parliament'. If it is good enough for the Parliament to supervise anything, surely it is good for it to supervise the land council reports that are proposed to be made to the Minister? I propose to discuss the amendments further at the Committee stage. 
-We are proposing that the clause be omitted. I propose that we divide on it unless there is an explanation from the Government. If the Government does not have a specific explanation to counter our contentions, then I will ask for a division on this clause. The reason for our wanting to omit the clause is simply that it gives to the Minister a discretion to vary the findings of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in one direction only and that is, against the Aboriginal claimant. It does not give him a discretion to increase the claim put by the Aboriginal claimant against the finding of the Commissioner. We believe that it is a one-sided provision and that it is contrary to any concept of independent arbitration. It is quite understandable that the Minister may, on occasions, want to agree to part of the claim being allowed and not other parts, but unless the Government can assure us that a disallowed claim can be made again on another occasion- I have had occasion to ask the Minister for an assurance on this, which he has not given me in the past- we must oppose this clause. For example, in the case of Borroloola, there was a disallowance by the Commissioner of part of the land claim. The Minister has still not stated whether an opportunity will be afforded to the claimants to prepare a more detailed, revised claim on the parts of the claim that were disallowed. The Opposition opposes clause 3. 
Question put- 
That the clause be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 November 1 979: 
What Aboriginal monitoring and appraisal will be provided by the Institute of Cultural Affairs and/or by governments in the Institute 's model project at Murrin Bridge. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to draw to your attention an anomaly in the records of the House. On page 1205 of the  Votes and Proceedings  of20 November 1979, the last two lines read: 
Debate adjourned  (Dr Everingham),  and, by leave, the resumption of the debate made an order of the day for a later hour this day. 
My recollection is that leave was not obtained. The  Hansard  record has not indicated this and I draw your attention to it because it was a matter of debate with the honourable member for Corio (  Mr Scholes  ), earlier in the week. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) What sums were (a) allocated and (b) expended in (i) urban and (ii) rural areas, in the miscellaneous relief vote in the Northern Territory in each year since 1967. 
Has the allocation declined in size; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) How many Aborigines have been recruited as welfare officers in the Department of the Northern Territory Development Branch and its successors in each year since 1 970. 
What scales of maximum assistance were (a) laid down and (b) made public, and when. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) Do Northern Territory authorities make children State wards before making fostering payments to relatives or others. 
Are non-Aboriginals preferred as foster parents for Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a report from the NSW State Branch of the National Aboriginal Conference on its visit to inspect Dodge City, an Aboriginal settlement at West Brewarrina, NSW where they described conditions as vile and hellish. 
Does the Minister recognise Federal Government undertakings in 1975 to relieve the NSW Government of financial responsibility for essential public funding of services for Aborigines. 
) What funds has the Government allocated to meet the urgent needs of the community through (a) untied grants to the NSW Government, (b) special purpose grants to the State or the Aboriginal Lands Trust of NSW for the needs of Dodge City and (c) grants to a local government or Aboriginal organisations for similar purposes. 
What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that these urgent needs are promptly met. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
What are the (a ) maximum and ( b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the costs of administration of his Department devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
What are the (a) maximum and (b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the costs of administration of his Depanment devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and /or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What are the (a) maximum and (b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the costs of administration of his Depanment devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and /or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
What are the (a) maximum and (b) minimum estimates of the (i) past and (ii) projected proportion of the costs of administration of the Department of Science and the Environment devoted to the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
Do Education Programs for the Unemployed Youth courses provide unemployed youth with several weeks of technical training in non-certified skills for no specific employment vacancies. 
What is the estimated commercial value of any productive work done by the trainees during the training: 
How many teachers does the scheme employ as a fulltime employment equivalent per 1 00 trainees on average. 
What is the cost per trainee of the scheme in terms of 
additions to unemployment benefit income for trainees; 
teacher salaries and (c) other costs. 
How many trainees on average are listed as (a) National Employment and Training systems participants and (b) unemployed. 
What would be the extra cost or estimated cost per trainee on average to pay them minimum award wages for approved labour-intensive public works and abolish the training scheme and the associated benefits and allowances, assuming that all non-labour costs for these projects were met by public authorities from other sources. 
What assessment is made of the comparative effectiveness of the scheme and of subsidised public works in providing job satisfaction, continuing employment and increased consumer demand to boost economic recovery. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 12 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the  Northern Territory News  of 4 September 1979, claiming that ( a )  Mr Solomon  Nayilibity, employed for some years by Queensland Mines as an Aboriginal Liaison Officer, lived with his family for about 6 months in a core shed belonging to the company, (b) the shed and a nearby tank containing radioactive samples were marked as radioactive, (c) the company has claimed that (i) unmineralised dust samples only were in the shed and were not dangerous and (ii)  Mr Nayilibity  did not mention any fears of radiation to a company spokesman who saw him during August 1979, (d) the company has not replied to  Mr Nayilibity  's request for a medical test, (e) the test would be unlikely to disclose irradiation effects which might take decades to appear, (f) uranium samples were spilt from a split bag over a former company exploration camp site and registered more than the maximum 5000 microrems/hour on a counter, 85 times the safe public exposure limit and (g) Aborigines hunt and camp in the area but the company has no commission to re-enter the area. 
Does the Depanment of Science and the Environment override the Depanment of Health in monitoring safety. 
What steps have been taken by uranium rnining companies to increase safety and correct bad housekeeping practices. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
With reference to the Minister's reply to a question without notice asked by  Senator Georges  (Senate  Hansard,  26 September 1979, page 953) concerning an Aboriginal group which recently visited Europe, will the Minister explain in detail what he meant by saying that a highly unfavourable picture of Australia presented by the Aboriginal group was distorted and exaggerated and why the group did Australia a great disservice. 
Are official domination, intimidation and paternalism for Aboriginal people in Queensland substantially worse than those for Aborigines in other States and Territories. 
If the Minister's hope that  Mr Porter  fairly presents the position as it exists does not eventuate, will the Minister take steps to see that the publicity media in Europe obtain a balanced view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statutory declarations by G. D. Rose,  President,  and C. E. R. Simpson, manageress, both of Barwon Aboriginal Community Limited, regarding conversations in June and July 1979, and a letter enclosing those declarations to K. Martin from F. Roberts dated 3 October 1979. 
If so, has funding to the Barwon Community been restricted or curtailed because of personal friction or a failure of the principles of Aboriginal self-management and a lapse in public service ideals by a public servant. 
What steps have been taken to reassure  Mr Roberts  and the Barwon Community that non-involved responsible decision-makers will ensure that justice is done and seen to be done in this case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs intending to proceed or proceeding with bulk billed insurance of Aboriginal assets. 
If so, what stage have negotiations reached. 
) Were public tenders called as is normal practice; if not, on whose instructions were they not called. 
How many firms are now involved in negotiations with the Department and what are their names. 
Have any insurance firms dropped out of negotiations, or been dismissed from them by the Department negotiators; if so, what are their names and why have they ceased negotiating. 
Was an approach made by former Liberal Member of Parliament  Mr John  Jess to a Government Minister in relation to the bulk billing arrangements. 
) Did that Government Minister then approach the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in relation to the same matter. 
What instructions to the Department by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs resulted from that approach. 
What actions did the Department take in relation to bulk billing insurance following an internal memorandum from the then Minister to his Department referring to that same subject. 
10) What is the estimated value to an insurance company of handling this policy. 
What is the estimated value of the Aboriginal assets to be bulk billed. 
1 2) What types of assets are they. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
Did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs grant money to Government, semi-government or private companies with which  Mr Paul  Stewart of Tamworth, N.S.W., was associated during the last 3 years. 
If so, how many companies received these grants. 
What was the total value of these grants. 
To whom were the grants given. 
Were the grants used for the purposes for which they were given and what were those purposes. 
If they were not used for those purposes, what were they used for. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) How many Aboriginal employment positions did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs fund in the Tamworth, N.S. W. area, during 1 977 and 1 978. 
) What was the total value of the funds provided. 
Were private companies required, as their part of the bargain, to keep an equivalent number of Aborigines employed with their own funds for an equivalent period of time after the Department of Aboriginal Affairs' grant had been spent. 
How many Government funded companies fully complied with those obligations. 
Was a  Mr Paul  Stewart, or a member of his family, associated with any of the companies which complied. 
What action has the Government taken to recover Government grants from companies that did not keep their part of the bargain and what sum is to be recovered in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to 1978 publications of the Queensland Government predicting major development of Aurukun Associates' mineral leases. 
What representations have been made to the Australian Government for development and when were these representations made. 
What discussions have taken place with Australian Government Ministers and officials concerning the terms of the development. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
Does Commonwealth legislation require the resignation of an official of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd before that person can contest an election for (a) the Federal or (b) any State Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1979: 
1 ) Will workers under Community Development Employment Projects comprise all formerly unemployed members of the participant community or all those formerly entitled to unemployment benefit. 
If not, what other categories of worker will be included and what other income will be available to unemployed non-workers. 
What monitoring, audit or assessment of work value will be carried out and by whom on behalf of each community. 
What proportion of C.D.E.P. funds will be allocated to (a) wages, (b) other resources for public works and (c) administration and evaluation. 
What effect does the scheme have on unemployment figures produced by the (a) Commonwealth Employment Service and (b) Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
