I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the entry into this country of a journalist who is alleged to have assisted two Asian countries whose soldiers were fighting Australian soldiers. Has the Government records which would show that this person did assist the enemies of Australia? If so, has he broken any of our laws? If he did assist the enemies of our country, but by doing so did not break any Australian law, is it the intention of the Government to alter our laws so as to make future actions of this sort an offence? 
I desire to ask the Minister for National Development a question concerning public relations in his Department. The Minister will be aware that there is sometimes insufficient knowledge, both in Australia and overseas, of the achievements in national development in Australia. Can the Minister take steps to see that every effort is made to make the public aware of the great development that has been and is taking place in Australia? Will he see, in particular, that the quarterly magazine 'National Development' is given as wide a distribution as possible, particularly overseas? 
I had always hoped that we might have a bipartisan foreign policy in Australia as has applied to such a great extent in both the United States and Britain. But after hearing tonight's speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  I realise that this is further from fruition than ever before. 
And why would it not be? How could we ever expect to get a bipartisan policy with a party that undoubtedly is controlled enormously by the left wing? I have seldom heard the Leader of the Opposition so caustic as he was against our great ally the United States of America. All of us know that the Americans have their faults but do we not have faults ourselves? At least, when it comes to our corner of the world it is the United States which is carrying the free world on its back; but the United States is getting mighty little thanks from people like the Leader of the Opposition for doing so. Perhaps he is getting ready for the Vietnam Moratorium. I understand that one of the 13 members who had not signed the document giving support to the Vietnam moratorium was written to and asked why he had not signed it. At least he had the courage of his convictions to say that he believed it would be disastrous for Australian troops to be immediately withdrawn from Vietnam. 
No, he will not last long. What will happen to him? Why would the Opposition not support this Vietnam moratorium? Its policy on Vietnam is identical with the pol'icy of those who are organising the moratorium. They believe that all Australian troops and in fact all foreign troops should be withdrawn from Vietnam. When they refer to foreign troops they do not for a moment mean the North Vietnamese; they mean those who are fighting the North Vietnamese. They believe that Australian troops and American troops should be withdrawn. The Labor Party believes in this and so do the Vietnam moratorium organisers. Everyone in Australia realises that the moratorium is being supported financially by the Communist Party through its front movement, the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament. 
We were told by the Leader of the Opposition that the intervention by the United States in Vietnam had been a Vietnam aberration. But what would happen if the Americans were to withdraw. It is terribly easy to make these cutting and caustic remarks when you have no responsiblity. What would happen if the United States and Australia immediately withdrew, as has been advocated both by the previous Leader of the Opposition in his policy speech of 1966 and by the present Leader of the Opposition in 1969? There would be chaos. I am sure that no-one would think for a moment that all troops supporting Vietnam - I was going to say all the foreign troops - could be withdrawn without chaos. A recent visitor to this country was a very great Englishman,  Sir Robert  Thompson, who is a great expert of counterinsurgency, having assisted enormously the British in Malaysia-Singapore and now assisting the Americans in Vietnam. In a book he wrote recently he said: 
The consequences of a defeat need to be carefully weighed. In South Vietnam itself a people would go under. Judging from past experience in China and North Vietnam perhaps several hundred thousands, who have supported the war and fought valiantly and who would certainly oppose the conqueror's subsequent collectivisation programme, might be slaughtered. This will not be shown on television and so may not worry subverted liberals and fellow travellers, but others may have it on their conscience. There is after all no Formosa to which the victims can escape, nor has any area been set aside for them in the C'alifornian desert. In a year or two they will be conveniently forgotten and the consequent stagflation of the economy is advanced as a specious argument for international aid. 
The Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party are advocating this and will do this if they have their way but, thank goodness, we know they will not have their way. Even though the Americans are de-escalating the war at the present moment we know that they realise and we realise that it is necessary and will be necessary for support to be given to the South Vietnamese for some time to come. 
The Leader of the Opposition talked about the 3 elections that had been held since the Vietnam war commenced, but he did not make the point that one of those 3 elections in which the Vietnamese policy was the vital issue, the 1966 election, saw this Government returned with the greatest strength that any Government has had during the 70 years history of federation in this country. Surely that shows - and thank goodness it does - that the ideas of the Leader of the Opposition and the ideas of the Australian people are poles apart. 
The Leader of the Opposition believes that we should have rushed in and signed the Treaty for the Non-Pro! iteration of 
Nuclear Weapons. He can always find someone to quote, and in this instance he quoted New Zealand as an example. I suppose he says that Australia should automatically have done what New Zealand did. We have signed the Treaty, but with certain reservations. It is only right that we should not blindly charge in and sign something just because the Leader of the Opposition thinks that by doing so we might encourage someone else to sign it. We would all welcome a really watertight treaty, but we want to find out whether it will prevent proliferation. Personally  1  have great reservations in my own mind as to whether it will prevent proliferation. I have heard a very eminent scientist recommend that if a country wanted eventually to become a nuclear power the first thing it should do is to sign and to ratify the Treaty. It will then have access to all the information it requires. It will be able, under inspection, to build up supplies of plutonium, and if and when it desires to become a nuclear power all it has to do is pull out of the Treaty and within a matter of months it can become a nuclear power. 
Before we go ahead and ratify the Treaty we want to be sure that it is watertight and that it will reduce proliferation. I would like to give to the House some of the conditions the Commonwealth Government would like to see fulfilled before it will ratify the Treaty. The Australian Government hopes that the Treaty will be effective in its operation and will lead to improved relations and enhanced co-operation between the nations of the world. It believes that a condition of an effective treaty is that it should attract a necessary degree of support. Some progress in this direction has been made but the Government will nevertheless want to be assured that there is a sufficient degree of support for the Treaty. 
It is of interest to note that the support which has brought the Treaty into operation has come from those countries which have no possibility or feasibility in the near future, or even in the fairly distant future, of becoming a nuclear power. We want to know what is to happen to the greater powers. For example, we know quite well that neither France nor China will sign. They are both nuclear powers but they will not sign or ratify the Treaty. We know that India will not ratify it. West Germany and Japan have recently signed but like Australia have very strong reservations about ratifying it. They want to see that something is done to satisfy the reservations they have about the Treaty. South Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Pakistan and Thailand have not ratified it. Thailand has not even signed. Indonesia has not ratified, neither has Israel, Italy, any of the Euratom countries, or Spain or even for that matter Byelorussia or the Ukraine. Surely before we press ahead with committing ourselves - and we could commit ourselves irrevocably on this matter - we ought to determine what support the Treaty will get, and whether it will reduce proliferation or whether it will be like the nuclear test ban, during the operation of which we discovered that 2 new countries had become nuclear powers. The Australian Government went on to say in paragraph 7 of a paper issued by the Department of External Affairs: 
Notes that Article 10 of the Treaty provides that any party has the right to withdraw in circumstances that jeopardised its supreme interest. 
What does this 'jeopardy of supreme interest' mean? If a country can say its supreme interest is jeopardised and so easily get out of the Treaty, what on earth is the use of the Treaty? If it is hard to get out you bind yourself for all time. No one can foresee what the future holds for us. So these are reasons - and there are others - why  1  believe the Commonwealth Government was very wise indeed to take its time before it decided to sign and, when it did decide to sign, to put in these reservations. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition I believe that the Government deserves to be congratulated on the recent statements that it has made on foreign affairs. They go a long way towards meeting the criticisms that have been made of the inadequacy of the Government's recent approach to foreign policy. They signify a very necessary adaptation to the changing circumstances of Australia's international environment. I mentioned the Government's recent statement on foreign affairs. While tonight we are debating the statement of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  we need also to take into account the recent statement of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In outlining his strategic thinking behind the new approach to the defence of Australia he covered much of the ground also covered by the Minister for External Affairs. Here I would like to issue a word of warning to the Government. As I see it, the strategic assessment of the international situation is primarily a matter for the Minister for External Affairs and his Department. After the strategic assessment has been made and accepted, perhaps with some variations by the Government, it is then for the Minister for Defence to determine, in the light of that appreciation, what should then be our defence forces and equipment. On this occasion, apart from some minor variations, the two Ministers have been singing the same tune. But I can foresee problems and misunderstandings ahead for the Government if both these Ministers feel themselves free to put forward their separate views on external' affairs, unless there is the closest collaboration between them. 
To return to the statement of the Minister for External Affairs, this is a new policy; let there be no mistake about that. The main difference from the old foreign policy is that the main emphasis is no longer on supporting the traditional great and powerful allies and upholding military alliances. The main emphasis is on Australia looking after its own interests and protecting itself as a significant power in the South East Asia region. An active and more independent role for Australia is seen as the best way in which Australia can advance its security in the changed circumstances of the 1970s. None of this is to say that Australia should lightly do anything which might in any way weaken its relations with our traditional great allies in the United States and Britain. On the contrary, every effort should be made to preserve and even strengthen relations with these countries. But, as realists, we must recognise that our traditional allies will not loom as large as they did in our part of the world. It is therefore sheer prudence to base our foreign policy on a greater measure of self reliance than in the past. The new foreign policy of the United States - as outlined by  President  Nixon in his report to Congress on 18th February - must have had a great impact on the formulation of the Government's new foreign policy.  President  Nixon's report has obvious significance for Australia. The first point is that, in this 40,000-word review of the whole range of American foreign policy and defence commitments, Australia and the ANZUS Treaty do not get any mention at all. It would be wrong to conclude that the Nixon Administration has written Australia off and that Australia ranks as quite insignificant in American calculations. But, at the same time, it may be an indication that Australia does not loom as large in the thinking of the American administration as Australians may have been led to believe by the emotional attachment of  President  Johnson. 
President Nixon, in his statement of the new American foreign policy, states in one place that the United States will not be involved in the world because of its commitments. 'Our interests must shape our commitments, rather than the other way around', he said. He went on to say: 'The fostering of self reliance is the new purpose and direction of American involvement in Asia'. In other words, America, which in Asia has been carrying the free world on its back, is getting a little tired of doing so, and is looking round to see what contributions the other democracies are making or are prepared to make in this area. 
The other three largest democracies who have or have had interests in South East Asia are Japan, Great Britain and France. I was very pleased to see therefore that the Minister for External Affairs devoted a major part of his speech to the growth of Japan and the even greater growth which is likely in its influence in the region and beyond. Japan is almost completely lacking in fuel and natural resources for its vast industries. We know this to our profit as a major supplier of many raw material's to Japan. Any interruption to the flow of these supplies, which consist of oil from the Middle East and Indonesia, rubber from Malaysia, and metal ores, wool, coal and wood chips from Australia, would be quite crippling to the Japanese economy and intolerable to the Japanese Government. That fact alone is likely to impel! the Japanese Government to increase radically its self defence forces. The extreme pacifism of the Japanese people following the disasters they were led into by the militarists in World War II is quickly waning, and the Japanese people are increasingly sensing the need for military forces for defence, like other peaceable countries. They are raising the proportion of their gross national production spent on defence above the present low level of 1%. They plan to treble the amount of money spent on defence in the next 5-year programme compared to the 5 year defence programme they have just completed. I welcome this move, even bearing in mind the history of Japanese aggression in the Second World War. 
I mentioned that the other two major democracies who have or have had interests in South East Asia are Great Britain and France. The Minister, quite rightly, said that it would be a major misfortune if, at this time, the benign British influence east of Suez was diminished, when the region is faced with such new and complex problems. He said that we therefore strongly hope that the British withdrawal may be delayed. He has been called naive and unreal in expressing the desire that Britain retain an influence east of Suez. It is true that, at the present moment, the only hope of reversing the current trend of British withdrawal from Malaysia appears to be a Conservative win in the approaching elections. Some British even ask: Why should we waste money stationing troops thousands of miles from Britain when our vital interests are not immediately in jeopardy?' One could have said the same thing during two world wars when Australia's vital interests were not immediately threatened but when hundreds of thousands of Australians flocked to the aid of Britain and France and a great many of them now lie buried far from their native shore. For our size, we probably made a greater contribution than any other nation to the success of the allies. Yet, only in the latter part of the Second World War were our own vital interests at stake. Again, in both the Malaysian emergency and the confrontation in Borneo - countries from which Britain has in the past drawn great wealth - Australian aid was readily forthcoming. One would have expected therefore some sympathy and understanding from the two great industrial nations of Britain and France for us in our dilemma in Vietnam. What have we received? 
The French are making a small contribution towards the civilian expenditure of the Vietnamese Government on schools and hospitals, but otherwise one gets the impres sion that they would hate to see anyone succeed in Vietnam where they failed. British ships continue to carry goods into North Vietnam, though they expect our help in their so far unsuccessful confrontation with Rhodesia. It may be said that the reason for the failure of France and Great Britain to make any contribution in Vietnam is their opposition to the war. But have they or any of the many others throughout the world who are opposed to the Vietnam war ever thought out to the end the possible alternatives? There appear to me to be only two alternatives - either North Vietnam is going to get South Vietnam, or it is not. lt is the second alternative that we and the United States are backing. We believe that the future of South Vietnam must be determined by the people themselves, and that North Vietnam should be prevented from determining that future by force. 
Thus, the alternatives in South Vietnam would appear to be a free nation, gaining in strength and prosperity, governing itself via the ballot box but still needing for some time some assistance against external aggression, or else a sort of Communist Yugoslavia preceded, of course, by a bloodbath. I do not think many people would desire to see the latter, although having read the book on Vietnam by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  1 am not so sure that he does not want to see this solution. 
In his book 'No exit from Vietnam', from which I have already quoted,  Sir Robert  Thompson goes on to say that if America does not stand firm in Vietnam 'every other American commitment will be exposed to doubt and anxiety on the part of those in whose favour it was made'.  Sir Robert  concluded: 
There will be a tendency on the part of the United States either to retreat towards isolationism or to reconfirm such commitments wilh added protestations of support (compare the guarantees given to Poland after Munich in 1938). The former would stimulate the domino theory while the latter could pave the way for more Vietnams. 
What is this domino theory? Continental South East Asia is a region containing small States whose politically educated classes, themselves believe in the domino theory. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (MrDrary)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for St George I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask honourable members to extend to him the usual courtesy. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  finished his speech by saying that the construction of Chowilla is the law of the land today. I do not think he is right because it is not the law of the land in New South Wales. It is not the law of the land in Victoria. It can be the law of the land only if we have the unanimous agreement of every State. As soon as we ratify this Agreement, which has been made between the 4 Governments, it will no longer be the law as far as we are concerned. So it is not true to say that the construction of Chowilla is the law of the land today. 
Before I get on to the problem generally let me run through some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson. First of all he asked: 'How do we know that Dartmouth will cost S57m? Is it not likely it will cost $80m? Could it fluctuate as much as the estimates for Chowilla or some other works have?' I would answer him by saying that the estimate for Dartmouth, which is a very straight forward dam, was made by the Snowy Mountains Authority after it had completed a considerable amount of drilling. I have no doubt whatever that this is a very accurate estimate. The dam is almost identical to Talbingo or Tumut 3 in the Snowy Mountains area. After the Snowy Mountains Authority had estimated the cost of Talbingo and called tenders it was discovered that the lowest tenderer would construct this dam cheaper than the Snowy Mountains Authority had estimated. I have no doubt this is an accurate . estimate. The experts have had a long time to drill and discover the various spots from which they will get the different types of soil for the dam. I have no doubt that the estimate will be close to the final cost. 
The honourable member for Dawson asked: 'Why was the figure of 900 cusecs selected as the flow past Mildura? Why was it not 600 or 300 cusecs?' During the computer studies, every figure was considered. We did studies on 300 cusecs. The original study unfortunately was made on no flow past Mildura, but I will come to that later. Studies have been made on 300 cusecs and we do not believe on 300 cusecs Chowilla would be comparable to Dartmouth. The reason why 900 cusecs was selected - it was selected unanimously by all the Commissioners of the River Murray Commission - is that this is the figure at the present moment which it is necessary to keep flowing past Mildura in order to maintain salinity within reasonable levels. It was agreed by every Commissioner that this was the figure that experience had shown would be necessary. From there the costs and yields are calculated. The yields and benefits are calculated on this figure of 900 cusecs. It could be that at some future time, if the salinity problem could be brought under control, it would be possible to reduce this figure. Only time will tell whether this is possible. At the present moment, it is not possible. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke about the future of Lake Victoria. He said that it is necessary to spend $7m on Lake Victoria and that this may be a loss if at a later stage Chowilla is built. Well, we do not know whether it is necessary to do this work on Lake Victoria. We will not know until the River Murray Commission and its technical officers have carried out the survey on it. All the governments concerned did agree that this survey should be carried out. Obviously, these expensive works will not be built at Lake Victoria if the result of the survey is that the works are not necessary. So, at the present moment, one cannot say that any expenditure is necessary there. The matter is being looked at only. If it is shown that this work should be undertaken because of the benefits in increased yields that will result, I have no doubt that, as in the past, the Commission will agree to this work being done. But it is premature to say that at the present moment. 
The honourable member for Dawson asked why no study had been made of Dartmouth and Chowilla together. Well, a study has been made of building Chowilla in addition to Dartmouth. It shows that if Chowilla were built in addition to Dartmouth, a slightly greater yield would be achieved. Instead of a yield of 200,000 acre feet per annum, the yield would be 250,000 acre feet per annum. But it is still a very small increment for the additional cost of building Chowilla. 
The question that is being asked - it was asked today by the honourable member for Dawson - is: What went wrong with the original decision to build Chowilla? This question is asked because we were told at the time, as the honourable member said, that Chowilla was based on a sound evaluation. Let me run through what did go wrong. I came in as Minister for National Development nearly 6 years ago, and as such was  Chairman  of the River Murray Commission. Chowilla was under way at an estimated cost of $28m. Not very long afterwards, we were informed that its cost would not be $2 8m but $43m. We all took a deep gulp, informed our governments and said: 'Well, we must press on nevertheless'. So, we pressed on. The stage of calling tenders was reached. It was at this stage that the tender cost came out to be not $43 m but $68m. This was the stage where unanimous agreement was reached to cease work on Chowilla and to look at various alternatives. I stress that the agreement was unanimous because, unfortunately, a lot of politics has been played and people who agreed to the cessation of work on Chowilla now are trying to say that Chowilla should proceed. 
Certainly, the honourable member would know, from his knowledge of the position. So, the increase in the cost was the first thing that went wrong. That is why work was suspended until we had a look at the various alternatives. lt is easy to be wise after the event. We did learn one thing. I am not casting any aspersions on the South Australian Water Supply and Engineering Authority but, from the point of view of the Commonwealth, I do think that we, in any future assessment in which Commonwealth money will be used, should make certain that the designs of proposed dams are checked by the Snowy Mountains HydroElectric Authority. Unfortunately, that Authority had very little to do with this dam until right at the end - and then it was only of a quite minor nature. 
As I say, I am not casting any aspersions on the Authority in South Australia because, undoubtedly, Chowilla was a most difficult dam. lt was a dam to be built on a floating site on a flood plain, lt was not possible to get down into the ground and anchor it on rock. To the best of my knowledge, such a dam has never been built in Australia. There are some such dams in Russia, on the Volga River and some of the larger rivers. These dams are not easy to build. Chowilla was not easy to estimate. In addition, when work started, the salinity problem at the actual site appeared, and it was very difficult to get saline water away. This would have necessitated piping the saline water some considerable distance to an evaporation basin. All these things tended to increase the cost of the building of the dam. 
One thing that I think we have learnt is that we should have an authority such as the Snowy Mountains Authority check designs and costs before the Commonwealth enters into an agreement. I think that this will be done regarding all future dams. I do stress once again for the benefit of our friend from South Australia, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is seeking to interject, that all the governments backed the decision to suspend work. It would not have been possible to suspend work if they had not backed that decision. All governments backed the decision to set up a technical committee to look at alternative sites. 
So, we looked at alternative sites. We went to Dartmouth and to Gibbo, above Dartmouth to Murray Gates. We even looked at the diversion of the Kiewa River to see whether we could get additional water by diverting the Kiewa into the Hume. But the study showed that there was virtually no benefit, although it could have been done quite easily. I do not think that it is really true to say that Jingellic was looked at because, although we know a dam can be built at Jingellic, the cost of and problems associated with this are very considerable. The township of Walwa would be inundated. A very large area of highly fertile land would be inundated also. Thus, the advantages would be considerably less. So, virtually that was ruled out. The result was, as everyone knows, that Dartmouth was selected. That is the first reason why things went wrong. 
The next thing that went wrong was failure to make allowance for dilution flows. I cannot understand why  -  I know that the technical experts have said that they realise they made a grave error in this field - no allowance was made to maintain a flow past Mildura. This was one of the problems. This made an enormous difference to the assessment of the benefit to be obtained from Chowilla. The original idea was that the Chowilla dam would hold the water needed for South Australia and that this then left virtually all the water in Hume to go to New South Wales and Victoria. But the moment a steady and quite high flow had to be maintained past Mildura, this meant that the water was going down anyway and immediately the benefit that Chowilla would be was reduced quite considerably. 
There were other errors which have been mentioned. Evaporation was underestimated both through estimating the area that Chowilla would cover and through the evaporation co-efficient which was not known accurately at that time. The tests with the pan showed that these were greater and so the actual loss per annum through evaporation from Chowilla would have been approximately 820,000 acre feet to 920,000 acre feet compared with 600,000 acre feet in the study. This is an enormous rate of evaporation compared with Dartmouth which would have an evaporation loss of only 15,000 acre feet per annum. Another major reason when we came to look at this alternative was the need to regulate the river properly. During the recent drought - that was in 1968  -  we found ourselves in a situation in which the Hume virtually was empty at the end of April which was also the end of the irrigation season. The dam was down to 24,000 acre feet. At the same time, water was available down the river in Menindee and there was some in Lake Victoria. This water could not be used in the higher area. 
It was realised that the Menindee Lakes area and Lake Victoria were very large storages with a total capacity of 2 million acre feet  -  500,000 acre foot storage at the lower end of the river - and what was needed to regulate the river properly was to have another storage in the headwaters. Attempts have been made to say that Chowilla has a higher average annual discharge past it and therefore that it would fill on occasions when the Hume did not. This is quite inaccurate. What we want to know is the yield, not the flow past the area. 
Some advocates in South Australia have treid to show that Chowilla, on the average, would fill every year. It is true that the average annual discharge at the Chowilla site is bigger than the capacity of the proposed storage. However the average annual discharge includes years such as 1955-56 when the discharge at Chowilla was nearly 40 million acre feet. When this information is put through a computer study it is found that in the present set of operating conditions Chowilla would have filled only once for 1 month in a period of 9 years. On the other hand, the Hume Weir undoubtedly is underregulated. There are too many spills. There was one period of 20 years during which the Hume Weir spilled in 18 years. Even recently, from 1956, it would have filled on 8 occasions and it would have spilled oh 2 other occasions except that releases were made because work was in progress. The size of the weir was being increased and special releases were made to keep the level of water down. In other words it would have spilled in 10 years out of 14. This was before the additional water started coming in from the Snowy Mountains system. We know that the Snowy Mountains system is now reaching its maximum discharge of some 500.000 acre feet per annum into the River Murray. There is no doubt whatever that the Hume Weir is not large enough and that an alternative is needed. It was this series of studies which led to the River Murray Commission deciding that the new storage should be at Dartmouth where it was shown that the increased yield would be about 5 times that which would come from virtually identical expenditure at Chowilla. 
Two queries were raised. I think I have answered the first, which was whether the Government, when it suspended work on 
Chowilla, made the right decision in selecting Dartmouth. I have no doubt that the right decision was made. The second query was whether the Government had done its best to ensure that such an error would be unlikely to occur again. Well, one cannot say that it will not happen again. However I believe we have strengthened the River Murray Commission enormously since the time the original decision was made. The River Murray Commission was operating before the establishment of the Department of National Development and therefore had to utilise the services of other people. For some time the  Deputy  Commonwealth Commissioner on the River Murray Commission was not the Secretary of the Department of National Development but was the Secretary of the Department of Works. The Department of Works is competent in building dams but is not competent in assessing yields and river flows. We altered the representation on the Commission and the second Commonwealth representative is now the Secretary of the Department of National Development. I am sure that this has strengthened the Commission. 
There is now a water resources branch in the Department of National Development. A very competent officer who was second in charge in the Queensland department has transferred to the Department of National Development, and this has resulted in strengthening the water resources branch to which the River Murray Commission can refer. In addition, as executive officer there is a top level officer who originally was seconded from the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority but who now has been taken on full time. We have had closer co-operation with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and, also, we now have a computer programme. Until the Department of National Development obtained its computer programme it used to take perhaps 3 months to work out the state of the River Murray under one given set of conditions. Under the present programme, using computers, conditions data can be fed in and an answer obtained very quickly. Only 13 studies were undertaken in the assessment of the Chowilla site before it was agreed to proceed with it but since that time 260 studies have been made. This has helped enormously.  
I have no doubt that the right decision was made. I have no doubt that the decision in favour of the Dartmouth site will be of enormous advantage to South Australia. I pay credit to New South Wales and Victoria, to their Ministers and their Commissioners on the River Murray Commission, for their very ready co-operation, especially in making the Menindee Lakes a permanent work of the River Murray Commission. South Australia will receive an increased water entitlement which it would not have got from Chowilla. If there is a restriction then South Australia will get an equal share. South Australia would have got this when Chowilla was built but there would have been virtually no restriction. With Dartmouth built there would have been only 1 year since 1915 in which a restriction would have been applied to South Australia's new entitlement and that would have been a very minor one. There is an agreement to look at Lake Victoria. The Commission is looking at a smaller lake, known as Lake Benanee, in the Euston lock which could be increased slightly so as to give a slight addition of water, available close to Mildura, which could be called on quickly. I do not know whether this scheme will prove to be economic but it is being investigated. Also, although they were built in Victoria, South Australia receives help from 2 salinity weirs because they reduce the amount of salinity. 
Unfortunately, the entire project has been bedevilled by politics. The stage has seen many actors. Probably one of the greatest actors is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He does not seem to have got into his mind the enormous amount of work done by technical experts since Chowilla was originally decided upon by the 4 governments concerned. He does not seem to have grasped the fact that it has now been shown that it would bc quite disastrous and senseless to build the Chowilla dam instead of the Dartmouth dam. In the case of Dartmouth there would be 5 times as much water for the same cost. Either the Leader of the Opposition is stupid or he is playing politics. I know that he has many faults but I do not believe that stupidity is one of them. Therefore it seems to me to be tragic that during the last election campaign he was prepared to go to South Australia and say that his Party would proceed with Chowilla. He is a lawyer and he knows perfectly well that the Chowilla project could not proceed even if the Labor Party had come to power in the Federal sphere, lt could not proceed because there must be unanimous agreement on the part of the 4 parties to the River Murray Commission Agreement. The Commonwealth Government could not merely say it would build Chowilla even if it was prepared to ignore the vast amount of technical work which has shown that Dartmouth is the superior site. 
The Leader of the Opposition is the first actor on the scene. The second actor is the present Leader of the Opposition in South Australia who, again, I am afraid, is playing politics up to the hilt. No-one realises more than he does that Chowilla is not on. His Government was in power when the suspension was agreed to. It was in office when the technical committee was set up. He came over and saw me personally, and he saw the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of Victoria. We agreed on a form of words which said that when looking at an alternative for Chowilla we would seek to give South Australia not less than it would have received had Chowilla been built. No-one was more certain that Chowilla was not on than was the then Premier of South Australia. But for political purposes he is now going to try to defeat the present Steele Hall Government in South Australia. He is going to attempt to defeat it by saying that a Labor government would press on even though he knows full well that if he wins the next State election and attains power he would have to agree to Dartmouth dam. There is no alternative. Either Dartmouth is built or South Australia will get no additional water. Let us be perfectly clear. Today we are not voting for the Dartmouth dam as against the Chowilla dam. We are voting for Dartmouth or for nothing. It is time people realised this fact. 
The last actor on the scene is  Mr Stott.  I will not say any more about him than that he reminds me of when, in the old days, I used to listen to the wrestling at the stadium. The commentator would say: 'He can't get out of it' and then he would say: 'He is out of it.'  Mr Stott  is in such a situation. He used to be able to get out of the remarks he made in bis electorate but then someone produced a tape recorder and now he is trapped. It would be quite ludicrous if a vast national project with the enormous result which it will produce for South Australia is defeated because of the futile way in which this particular person has acted. I cannot stress strongly enough that a national outlook is what is needed. Let us get away from playing politics and trying to win elections. Let us get down to consideration of what the country needs. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service, concerns what appears to be a growing tendency on the part of some militant unions to take the government of the country out of the hands of the constitutionally elected Government by an attempt through so called 'black bans' to circumvent the policy of the Government of the day. Will the Government strongly stress to the Australian Council of Trade Unions that it is not prepared to have the government of the country taken out of its hands by a small unelected minority? In particular, will the Government see that the partial lifting of the merino ram export ban, asked for by the Australian Wool Industry Conference and agreed to by the Government, is implemented at the earliest possible moment? 
I desire to ask the Minister for the Army a question concerning equipment which has been purchased for the Australian Army from some overseas countries which later seek to direct where this equipment can be used and where it cannot be used. I refer particularly to Swiss and Swedish attempts to prevent the Australian Army from using equipment bought from these countries in Vietnam. Will the Minister point out to these countries that once we have purchased this equipment it is ours and we will use it wherever it suits us to use it? Secondly, will he point out to these Governments that their unsuccessful attempts to prevent us from using aeroplanes and guns where we please must undoubtedly make it more difficult for them to sell any more equipment to us in the future? 
I would also like to ask a question of the Minister for Health. Is it a fact, as alleged recently by the Victorian Graziers Association, that in August 1969 a report on tenders for incinerators called by the Melbourne Harbour Trust was submitted to the Commonwealth Department of Health and that a particular tender was recommended for acceptance? Is it also a fact, as alleged by the Victorian Graziers Association, that the 
Department of Health has informed the Melbourne Harbour Trust that an incinerator of only half the size need be constructed if the garbage is sorted before being placed in the incinerator, a process thought by many to be either very difficult or virtually, impossible? As this haggling between the Commonwealth Government, the State Government and the Melbourne Harbour Trust has been going on for at least the last decade, can the Minister do anything to break this deadlock, decide who is legally responsible for disposal of ships' refuse and get the incinerators built before there is an outbreak of some exotic disease brought in by ships' refuse? 
I desire to ask the Attorney-General a question. Is it a fact that there are some woolly minded people who believe that the so-called Vietnam Moratorium is a spontaneous demonstration on the part of some Australians opposed to war? Tn order to make clear to the House the origins of this movement will the Attorney-General inform me whether the organisers and sponsors include, as well as most parliamentary members of the Australian Labor Party, members of peace front organisations and other sympathisers with the causes of the Communist Party? Is it a fact that there are a number of hard core card carrying Communists among the sponsors? If so, who are these people? 
The House has before it 4 Supply Bills. I refer particularly to the proposed appropriation for the Department of External Affairs. This debate gives us an opportunity to discuss matters of public importance. Undoubtedly at the present moment the matter of greatest public importance in our external relations is the position in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. The situation there can be vitally affected by the so-called Vietnam Moratorium. The Moratorium aims to disrupt business and the life of the nation so that it will force the withdrawal of all allied troops from Vietnam. I stress the words 'allied troops', because apparently the aim of the Vietnam Moratorium is not to withdraw the troops from North Vietnam and the Vietcong who are the aggressors in South Vietnam. Its aim is to withdraw Australian, American, Thai and Korean troops who are the so-called allied troops. The Moratorium is really an attempt to coerce a democratically elected government by strikes by street violence and by so-called happenings. I ask: What would happen if the Moratorium were successful and it led to the immediate withdrawal of all allied troops from South Vietnam? There is no doubt whatsoever that the South Vietnamese have built up their strength enormously to resist the attacks being made on them. We are told that their forces are now very close to 1 million and that they aim to increase to about 1,100,000 the forces permanently under arms. For a nation of its size that is an enormous contribution. But, if all allied troops were immediately withdrawn, would they be strong enough to resist the attacks not only from North Vietnam but assisted by the Chinese and the Russians? One doubts that they would be able to do so. If they were not, what would happen? As I have already said in other places, one would see a blood bath in South Vietnam if the North Vietnamese were to overrun them. One has only to look at what happened in the ancient city of Hue which, for a fortnight during the Tet offensive, the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese occupied. Immediately in went the political cadres. They had their photographs and dossiers. Although they spent only a fortnight in that town, when the allied troops reoccupied that city they found at least 3,000 people who had been slaughtered by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. If this could happen in a fortnight in 1 city it shows what would happen throughout the whole of South Vietnam if the Moratorium were successful and all allied troops were immediately withdrawn, and also if , as a result of that, the South Vietnamese were unable to withstand the pressures placed upon them. 
I draw the attention of the House again to a very short quotation which I read here not so long ago. It is a quotation from a book written by a very great expert on insurgencies,  Sir Robert  Thompson. He visited this country. He was an expert on Malaysia where he assisted in the emergency which lasted for some 16 years. He has been in Vietnam as the expert advising  President  Nixon. This is what he had to say about the consequences of a defeat in Vietnam in a book that he wrote recently entitled 'No Exit from Vietnam':   . . the consequences of such a defeat need to be carefully weighed, tn South Vietnam itself a people would go under. Judging from past experience in China and North Vietnam perhaps several hundred thousands, who have supported the war and fought valiantly and who would certainly oppose the conquerors' subsequent collectivisation programme, might be slaughtered. This will not be shown on television and so may not worry subverted liberals and fellow travellers, but others may have it on their conscience. There is after all no Formosa to which the victims can escape nor has any area been set aside for them in the Californian desert. In a year or two they will be conveniently forgotten and the consequent stagnation of the economy is advanced as a specious argument for international aid. 
That is the position. There would be the grave possibility - almost probability - of South Vietnam being overrun. This would be only the beginning of the application of what has been known as the domino theory. There are people who disagree with the domino theory, but I do not believe that the people up in Asia, certainly those in control of a number of small states, disagree with it. 
Basically, the domino theory is that there are in the South East Asian area a number of small states, none of which individually would be able to stand up against the might of North Vietnam assisted by the Chinese and the Russians. Therefore, if the strongest of these nations - which is South Vietnam - were to topple, the possibility of any of the others withstanding the pressure that would then be brought upon them would be even less. One could picture Laos, already fully occupied by the North Vietnamese, Cambodia and Thailand engulfed. Would it stop there? Would it go on to Malaysia and Burma? There is no doubt that the domino theory would have a .great chance of coming into operation if the Moratorium were effective and if, as the result of it, South Vietnam happened to be overrun. 
Let us face the situation. There are only 2 alternatives in Vietnam: Either South Vietnam will be overrun or it will not. It is of no good for people to say that we should not have become involved. I disagree entirely with that. Are we just to back down wherever there is aggression in the world? I know that there are people who are peace loving and who believe that there should be no war. But what happens if any time there is Communist aggression we just back away from it? History in the past has shown - and history has a habit of repeating itself - that you cannot con:tinually back away from aggression. Sooner or later you have to face up to it. There is no need for me to remind the House of what happened in Europe before the Second World War and how the appeasers backed away when the German troops reoccupied the Rhineland. Nor do I need to remind the House about the appeasement in other areas such as Austria and Sudeten Czechoslovakia. I believe that we should have become involved in Vietnam; but the point is that we are involved. As I said, I know that there are some people who genuinely oppose the war. But aggression should not succeed and should not be seen to succeed anywhere. The moment that it does, the strength of the smaller nations is lessened and the chance of further aggression succeeding is even greater. 
The Moratorium is gathering pace - or the organisers hope it is, although it does not seem to be. I was interested to note that we had a little demonstration here yesterday, and I read in the Press today that there were about 5 times as many people there as I thought were there when I looked out the window. No doubt this was a little bit of journalistic licence. The Vietcong have realised that the war will not be won by them and will not be lost by the allies in Vietnam. It will be won or lost in America or Australia by lack of resolution. That is the whole reason behind the Moratorium. The organisers realise that the place to win this battle is in Canberra, Washington and the various other capital cities of the world. I have before me a copy of a document that was captured on 1st June 1969 by a unit of the 9th United States Cavalry Division. It is dated 12th April 1969. It is clear from this document and from other documents that have been captured that the Communists expect complete victory only by way of a number of steps. They recognise that they cannot win militarily but they believe that a process has been set in train, beginning with the cessation of the bombing of the North and including the decision to negotiate in Paris with the National Liberation Front, which though tortuous will end in complete victory. If anyone ever doubted the role played by the protest movement in sustaining the morale of the Communists he could hardly do so any more after carefully reading this document. 
There is no suggestion any more, as there was before the Tet offensive in 1968, that the people will rise up in sympathy with the Communists if offered the opportunity; of course they were offered this opportunity during the Tet offensive. The purpose being expounded is clearly this: Inflict as many casualties as possible; spread the killing of selective civilians as widely as possible; destroy as much as can be destroyed of the government's local administration, but above all hasten the process by serious negotiations. That is, by withdrawal of United States troops and the acceptance of a coalition government may be expected to arise out of American political weakness, the nature of which is accurately described and the intensity of which is in direct proportion to the strength of this protest movement. So we can expect a full reporting in Hanoi of this week's events. I believe that probably already the photograph of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  addressing this meeting is on its way there. 
And of the Leader of the Opposition. Thus, as I see it, the Moratorium is wrong for many reasons. Firstly it is wrong because it seeks to encourage Communist control of South East Asia by assisting our enemies. Secondly, it is wrong because it condones attacks on Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. We are told that already there are 60,000 North Vietnamese permanently in Laos and some 40,000 in Cambodia, many of whom are marching on Phnom Penh, but there is no word of course in the Moratorium about withdrawing these troops. Since 1965 about 5,000 tons of supplies a month for the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese have been going through Cambodia, through the Port of Sihanoukville. Thirdly, the Moratorium is wrong because it fails to call on the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese to withdraw. The neutrality of Cambodia should be strictly enforced and it should be properly supervised and effectively guaranteed. Fourthly, the Moratorium is wrong because it fails to condemn the assassinations, the kidnappings, the torture and the ravages of the Vietcong. I saw a figure recently which indicated that some 135,000 people had been assassinated, injured or tortured by the Vietcong. Probably the figure is very much higher than that. 
Fifthly, the Moratorium is wrong because it fails to call on the North Vietnamese to pursue the Paris peace talks. The Paris peace talks have been a complete farce. We know that they were engineered by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese for only one purpose. That purpose was the stopping of the bombing of North Vietnam. The North Vietnamese were being grievously hurt by the bombing. They had no answer to it and it was preventing their production and preventing their supplies from going south. The only way in which they could stop this was to make a farce of showing that they were prepared to negotiate. They said that it was the only thing preventing them from going to the negotiating table and, like suckers, we fell for it. There are so many genuine pacifists on our side - the side of the free world - who are carried away with humanitarian principles. No doubt many of these people are well intentioned but unfortunately they are also ill informed. Sixthly, we say that the Moratorium is wrong because it mentions the so-called corruption and tyranny in South Vietnam but there is no mention of what is happening in North Vietnam. My understanding is that tyranny is more likely to occur where there are no elections and we know there are no elections in North Vietnam, but there are elections in South Vietnam in spite of every attempt made by the Vietcong to sabotage these elections. 
The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  only recently returned from a trip there and he said he was interested and very pleased indeed to meet so many of the heads of various village councils who had been elected. Certainly there are still some who have not been elected but have been nominated by the  President.  Nevertheless, a great many elections are held despite the attempts of the Vietcong to prevent them. Of course, the rule of law is being established in South Vietnam. In North Vietnam if a person were gaoled for 10 years would you expect him to be able to appeal to the courts and get that sentence quashed? Of course, you would not. He would be lucky if he got away with 10 years. Only recently a person in South Vietnam to whom this had happened appealed to the courts and had his sentence quashed. 
The Moratorium is wrong because it seeks to use violence to undermine police authority, lt is all very well for people to say: 'We do not want to use violence at all. We are going to sit down in the middle of the busiest street in the centre of Melbourne and only if these wretched police come along and start trying to move us will there be violence, but we do not want it at all.' That is a ludicrous thing to say. [Quorum formed.] 
I thank the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  for calling for a quorum and ensuring that more people will hear my speech, lt is unfortunate that so very few Opposition members are present to hear it. In fact, I think there were about 7 in the House all told. I was saying that the Moratorium was wrong and 1 was giving the reasons why I thought it was wrong. The honourable member for Chifley did not like it when f mentioned that this is a Moratorium which seeks to use violence to undermine police authority. People say that this Moratorium will be non-violent but how can it possibly be non-violent when arrangements are made to sit down in the middle of the busiest, streets of Melbourne and Sydney and make perfectly certain that there will be violence? We all know that a demonstration like this fails unless there is violence in which case photographs are available to be sent to Hanoi to show the way in which this dreadful Government is oppressing the people of Australia and how the people of Australia are just about to withdraw their forces as a result of these demonstrations. 
Finally, the Moratorium is wrong because it tries to gain a minority control which could not bc won at the ballot box. lt is only a very short time since we went to the ballot box. We were elected as the Government for a 3-year period. Even in a gallup poll which was held recently only a relatively small percentage of people said that they believed the troops should be immediately withdrawn from Vietnam. The great majority said no, they believed the troops should be phased out as and when Vietnamisation was succeeding. Who is behind this movement, the so-called Vietnam Moratorium? There is no doubt that there are genuine pacifists with humanitarian principles, well intentioned but many of them ill-informed. There are of course, a great many Labor members of Parliament - all, I. believe, except 13 - who have signed this Moratorium. There are left wing unions. The interesting thing is that these left wing unions, which get their funds from their members and which are meant to be used for industrial purposes, are being used for political purposes. One only has to look at one of the advertisements placed in a paper today. This was a full page advertisement and everyone knows the enormous cost of such an advertisement. But, of course, money is no object when one is able to levy this money from people who believe thai it is being levied for industrial purposes. 
Then there is the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. This is an organisation which even the New South Wales Labor Party said was  a  Communist front association. The British Labour Party also has said that it is  a  Communist front organisation. The organisation is one of those peace movement shows and everyone knows from where it is controlled. Lastly there are the card carrying Communists. We have seen  a  number of names associated with this, all of whom are full and recognised members of the Communist Party. Many are office holders of the Communist Party and are associating with members of the Labor Party. Let me name a few. My colleague the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has recently distributed  a  pamphlet in which he lists  a  number of these people. 
The people he lists from New South Wales are: Mavis Robertson of the Communist Party of Australia National Committee: Brian Aarons, who is the son of the CPA National Secretary - and the advertisement that appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' carried the name L. Aarons, who I presume is Laurie Aarons, the National Secretary- and Catherine Macdonald from the teachers body. In Victoria there are such well known names as Laurie Carmichael of the CPA National Executive, John Sendy of the CPA National Committee and Bernard Taft of the CPA National Committee. In Queensland - and my honourable friend from Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  mentioned this person last night - there is Hugh Hamilton, who is  President  of the State Committee of the CPA. There are also John Sherrington and James Henderson. In South Australia there is Peter Symon of the State Committee of the CPA. 
It is a unity ticket between the Labor Party and the Communist Party. Finally, in Tasmania there is Max Bound who is the State Secretary of the CPA. These are the people who are associated in running this spurious campaign. What a group. 
What has happened to the once great Labor Party? A few years ago - I have been in this House I am afraid to say for as long as any Liberal on this side of the chamber - the Labor Party would not be associated with a Communist. The Labor Party would not be associated even with a Communist front organisation. Today it has swung away from that completely. What a shocking sight it was yesterday to see a Vietcong flag waving outside the front of this House and the Leader of the Opposition under that flag addressing the people who were demonstrating against our troops who are fighting in Vietnam. This is an appalling situation. I am told by the honourable member for Lilley also that the Leader of the Opposition has had some rather dubious associations with campaign organisers in his State and that this has never been denied. Every time anything can be done to support the Communists who represent the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese someone in the Labor Party is there to do it for them. 
Look at the recent entry into this country of that traitor Burchett, a man who it is admitted was present during the questioning and torture of two American airmen who finally broke under this torture and signed some spurious document on germ warfare. Yet this man received assistance from the Labor Party, not only to get into this country but to do anything that he wanted while he was here. Even platforms were found for him by the Labor Party. The Labor Party backed the refusal to load tanks on the 'Jeparit'. It called on the troops to mutiny. Why, we even have another place graced by the  President  of the Labor Party in Victoria who was present when the resolution was passed calling on the troops to mutiny. It seems to me that the Labor Party wants instant peace by surrender. Our Party - and I can say this on behalf of a committee we set up recently - is determined that we should continue to give every possible assistance to the South Vietnamese and to the Americans to see that South Vietnam is not overrun. We have produced a statement which has been signed by every member of the Government parties in the Senate and the House of Representatives, apart from those who are away and,  Mr Speaker,  of course. Let me read to the House what the statement says: 
The Vietnam Moratorium campaign is an assault upon democratic processes, based on fraud and designed to promote widespread disruption and dislocation. It is not calculated to achieve anything except a weakening of the resolution of the Australian Government and the Australian people to secure a just peace in South Vietnam. 
We, as the members of the Federal Parliamentary Liberal and Country Parties, urge the Australian people to recognise: 
that the Australian Government desires a just peace in Vietnam, based upon the ability of the South Vietnamese people to determine for themselves, secure from aggression, the future development and government of their territory; 
that, consistent with this overall objective, the Australian Government has indicated it will withdraw Australian troops as the success of the South Vietnamese Government and its allies in containing the North Vietnamese aggresstion and as the rate of withdrawal of US troops permits. 
Accordingly, we urge all Australians to consider the implications of the Moratorium. We recognise the right of dissent and protest within the law - which we ourselves would assert if ever we were in Opposition. But we note that the Moratorium campaign is more, than an expression of legitimate dissent and1 protest. It is intended to be a massive strike for political purposes, designed to inconvenience thousands of citizens and to subject community life to dislocation. It is a wholly unjustifiable claim of right which amounts to an unjustifiable denial of the rights of others. 
The Government will not be influenced to alter its policy by mass pressures of this character, nor should it be. 
We call upon aH Australians to recognise the tactics of the Moratorium as dangerous and unwanted. Australia is a country where there is unlimited scope for legitimate and lawful freedom of dissent and' protest and the Moratorium tactics are ro be forthrightly condemned. 
I seek leave to table the document. 
by leave -I am glad that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has today, in accordance with the undertaking of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of 3 weeks ago, tabled certain documents relating to Commonwealth-State negotiations on the proposed off-shore minerals legislation. I thank the Prime Minister for having made these documents available to me when I sought them from htm some weeks ago, and for having discussed the matter with me on 2 occasions. I should also like to thank the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEvven)  for making available a considerable amount of his time to discuss this problem with me. 
The 2 major documents which were tabled were the minutes of the Australian Minerals Council meetings on 3rd March 1969 and 26th September 1969. At both these meetings I represented the Commonwealth as Minister for National Development. In order to understand these minutes the House should understand the background which preceded the original meeting of 3rd March. I was authorised by Cabinet to make an offer to the States at that meeting. That offer was that the States should retain control of the mineral resources of the territorial seabed, that is, from low water mark to the 3-mile mark off-shore, while the Commonwealth legislated to take over total rights outside the 3-mile limit to the edge of the continental shelf. I made that offer. I am reducing everything to its simplest terms so as not to cause any misunderstandings. The States were not happy with this offer. They believed that the introduction of a different system in relation to off-shore minerals other than petroleum could lead to confusion in the mining industry. As a result the States came up with a counter offer that the Commonwealth should re-consider a set-up for off-shore minerals that was already operating satisfactorily, in the States' view, for off-shore petroleum. I undertook to refer this proposal back to Cabinet and also undertook that before the Commonwealth took any action there would be further consultation with the States. 
Two points emerge from this. Firstly, I did not commit the Commonwealth as David Fairbairn; I committed it as the Minister for National Development, authorised and instructed by Cabinet to act as the Commonwealth's negotiator. Any commitment made within the limits of the authority I was given by the Cabinet was binding on the Cabinet and on the Government. The second point that arises from this is that the commitment was given that there would be further discussions. This commitment also was binding on the Cabinet and the Government. Thus 2 questions that must be answered arise. The first question is: Was a commitment entered into? And the second question is: If it was, was this commitment honoured? I have heard it argued that the undertaking I entered into was not legally binding on the Commonwealth. I flatly refuse to accept that argument. Has public morality in this country declined to such a degree that an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth is not binding unless it is legally enforceable? If that is the position, we have come to a pretty despicable state of affairs. Is it believed in Australia today that the word of the Commonwealth Government means nothing unless those to whom this word is given have some legal means of enforcing it? How could anyone ever trust us again if that is the position? 
What is the worth of an electoral promise? The voters are not given a pledge in a legally enforceable form. They have to rely upon our honour, and if we have no honour we have nothing. 
I turn to whether a commitment was made to the States by the Commonwealth. I believed that I had entered into a commitment on behalf of the Commonwealth. The official record confirms this. I ask the House to study the document entitled Commonwealth-State Meeting - Off-shore Minerals Legislation'. It is dated 26th September 1969. It flows from the meeting of 3rd March, but I am concentrating on it rather than the document of 3rd March because it is of a later date. I ask honourable members to look at page 2. This records remarks made by the Western Australian Minister for Mines and Justice,  Mr Griffith. Mr Griffith,  in dealing with my statement at the meeting of 3rd March, on page 2, states: 
The State Ministers note that the Commonwealth proposal envisages State control of territorial waters, but the Ministers believe that a cooperative scheme extending to both territorial waters and the continental shelf and based on a pooling of legislative competence is desirable in the national interest. 
This statement, of course, arose from an offer that I was authorised to make by Cabinet to the State governments. I now ask honourable members to look at page 3 of this document. I - not David Fairbairn but the Minister for National Development - accepted the proposition that there would be further discussions on this matter. The document states: 
At the present moment our plans are to have a Minerals Council meeting some time in February. This would mean that we would have an opportunity of further discussions on this matter. 
This is me speaking. I did not need to make it more explicit. I assumed that the State Ministers would accept me as a man of honour speaking on behalf of a government of honour. I turn to page 16. We are repeating ourselves, but politicians often repeat themselves to make things crystal clear. At the bottom of the page  Mr Griffith  is recorded as saying: 
But if the Commonwealth would give us an assurance that we could meet soon after the election for the purpose of further discussing our difficulties, with the Commonwealth attitude not being one that it is going to take away from the States all it can as a result of the High Court predictions - if ] can call them predictions - I would feel happier about the whole thing. Because you are going to ask us to administer this, you know. 
I replied to this on page 17. I drew attention to the difficulties of the timetable. Here again I was speaking as the Commonwealth negotiator. I said: 
I am prepared to meet the Ministers for Mines as soon as possible after we have had an opportunity of discussing this . . . 
By 'this' 1 meant the States' counter proposals. I continued:   in the Cabinet but it would obviously be essential that we should have had this opportunity of some discussions and, as you know, you cannot always get an immediate decision. 
I went on to say: 
Perhaps we could have a meeting just before Christmas but, I don't see much chance of anything before that. 
Again 1 committed the Commonwealth to prior discussions. Let me say this: 1 made that commitment within the authority conferred on me by the Prime Minister. On 30th July 1969 I wrote to the Prime Minister and said:  1 seek your guidance as to the course of action you would like me to follow. My own inclination would be to write to the State Ministers and tell them that, due to pressure  of  the forthcoming Budget session  of  Cabinet, followed by the parliamentary Budget session and the prospects of an early election, I feel unable  to  propose a firm date to resume these discussions  in  the immediate future. I will suggest that the matter be taken up at the next scheduled meeting of the Minerals Council, which is set down for February 1970. I will also reassure the States that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until there has been an opportunity  to  discuss fully and frankly the views which  I  expressed on behalf of the Commonwealth Government  in  my statement on March 3rd. 
To this the Prime Minister replied on 18th August. He wrote: 
Whilst 1 have no objections to your writing to the State Ministers  in  the general terms proposed in your letter, I would want to avoid, if at all possible, a situation where the Comonwealth became committed to long drawn out discussions for consultations with the States  on this  matter. For this reason 1 would prefer that you eliminate from your proposed letter the suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion  of  full and frank discussions with the States  on  this matter.  I  think we should preserve as much room for maneouvre as possible in this matter 
I ask the House to note particularly the words 'if at all possible*. I construed them - and I think any sensible man would - as a position I was to maintain only if I could. 
It was not an embargo on entering into such a commitment. As it happened, the attitude of the States at the 26th September meeting made it dear that I would have to give* them a commitment to consult before legislation. I entered - as I was authorised to do - into a commitment. After all, the Prime Minister had not been opposed to my telling the States - and I quote from my letter: 
I will suggest that the matter be taken up at the next scheduled meeting of the Minerals Council, which is set down for February 1970. 
Let me return now to the minutes of the 26th September meeting.. As these minutes show, 1, as the Commonwealth negotiator, not only accepted the commitment for further negotiations but I agreed to the date of the meeting at which the further consultations were to take place. We were talking about December. The New South Wales Minister for Mines,  Mr Fife,  asked me: 
Would you like us to hold ourselves available for a meeting on, say, 15th, subject to events at the Commonwealth level? 
The 'events at the Commonwealth level' was obviously a reference to the coming election and the possibility of some Cabinet reorganisation. The official transcript stated:  Mr Fairbairn-  Yes, I think that would be best. 
We had reached the stage at which we had fixed the date of a future meeting. Let us turn now to page 24.  Mr Griffith  said: 
I have pressed you to a meeting in December and with this in mind - the possibility of the status quo arrangements being continued until the Commonwealth and the States come to a 'mutual' arrangement - and I stress the word 'mutual' - I would gladly withdraw and suggest that you call the meeting when you are ready. 
Are those not the words of a man who believes - as I believed - he had entered into an agreement? I now turn to page 30. In the last 2 paragraphs  Mr Griffith  asked: 
But under this proposed legislation who would have the legal rights within the 3-mile limit? 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who was then the Commonwealth Attorney-General and who attended the meeting in that capacity, replied: 
Probably a designated authority who would derive his authority in the case of up to the 3-mile limit from the State legislation and outside from the Commonwealth. 
This was the basis on which we were then negotiating. We had given an undertaking that there would be further discussions. As the Commonwealth has now changed its mind and intends to seek powers not from the 3-miie limit about which the Attorney-General was then speaking but from the low water mark, surely the moral obligation to consult further becomes even heavier; or does not a government undertaking entered into by its authorised negotiator count anymore? Is this a manifestation of the irresponsibility of the permissive society at governmental level? 
I now turn to pages 36 and 37.  Mr Griffith  was meeting the Commonwealth's convenience. He said that he realised it would be difficult for the Commonwealth to arrange a meeting on 15th December.  Mr Griffith  said that the States would accept a later meeting. He is recorded as doing this on page 36 and at the top of page 37. I said: 
All Tight. And we would have an interim meeting as soon as we are ready to discuss this particular matter, and have a later meeting in May. 
If the States cannot accept those kinds of assurances, government in this country is reaching a pretty low ebb. If the Commonwealth takes the attitude that the States have no rights because the agreement, undertaking - call it what you like - is not legally enforceable, what the Commonwealth is saying is that if the Commonwealth promises something get it written into a contract immediately, and in an enforceable form, otherwise the promise is not worth anything. 
So far I have dealt with the one question which, as I have said earlier, is: 'Was a commitment entered into?' I believe the commitment was entered into. The States believe, and have stated publicly, that the commitment was entered into. The key document, the report of the 26th September meeting, makes it abundantly clear that the commitment was entered into. Please do not give me this legal claptrap. It was a commitment and the Government was morally bound to honour it whether it was legally enforceable or not. 
I turn now to question 2: Was this commitment honoured? There have been suggestions not, I believe, emanating from the present Minister for National Development, that it was honoured - not in a formal conference, as the States believed it would be honoured, but in individual talks between the Minister for National Development and individual State Ministers. I will return to this. Other suggestions try to say that the commitment has been honoured because the Minister for National Development has met the State Ministers after the decision to legislate unilaterally from the low water mark had been announced by the Commonwealth. I do not think anyone would take this latter argument seriously. A meeting held after the Commonwealth had decided to go it alone completely abrogates the previous understanding and can have no influence on the Commonwealth's announced policy. I return to the question of whether adequate individual talks occurred between the Minister for National Development and the State Mines Ministers. All I can do in the present circumstances, as I was not a participant in what went on, is to draw upon the minutes of a meeting of State Mines Ministers and Attorneys-General which was held in Melbourne on Friday, 1.3 th March of this year. The minutes reveal that  Mr Griffith,  who acted as  Chairman,  went around the table. He asked each of the States to give him their version of their conversations with the Minister for National Development.  Mr Griffith,  referring to the minister for National Development, is on record as follows: 

 Mr Griffith: He visited' rae and had a general conversation with me pertaining to the mineral industry in my State. I have no recollection of  him mentioning anything  about  the waters beyond the low water mark. I do not think in my conversation with  Mr Swartz  that he mentioned the 3-mile  limit or the continental shelf, expressly dividing one from the other. It was a general statement. 
At this meeting  Mr Griffith  also said that, when later he heard of the Commonwealth proposals to resolve the legal question of sovereign control of the resources of the continental shelf - and I quote: 
My reaction  to  this statement was that I thought it would be a great pity  if  the Commonwealth simply moved into the field  of  legislating in view of the undertakings which had been given us that we would have further consultation with the Commonwealth before they  did  legislate. 

 Mr Griffith  went on: 
When I found out that the Commonwealth intended' to legislate not only in respect of the continental shelf but also to the low water mark. . . 
The minutes tend to confirm what is already publicly known which is that  Mr Griffith  found out when he received a telegram followed by a letter from the Minister for National Development just before the Governor-General's Speech.  Mr Griffith  continued: 
I was quite horrified to think that matters had gone this far, and 1 thought this was an abrogation of the understanding that we had wilh the previous  Minister 

 Mr Fife, Minister for Mines in New South Wales was even more definite. The minutes report him as saying: 
The Minister for National Development did call on me at about the same time as he made calls on other Ministers for Mines throughout Australia, but in our discussion this matter did not arise, and so there has been no discussion between the Minister for National Development and myself on this particular issue. 
I am sorry to delay the House like this, but I feel that this matter of the Government honouring its commitments is of public concern, and that when a government gives its word that word must be honoured. However, I will be as brief as I can.  Mr Balfour,  the Minister for Mines in Victoria, was absent from his State when the Minister for National Development was in Victoria. The minutes report  Mr Balfour  as saying: 
I understand that the matter of off-shore minerals was not mentioned and the main discussions which took place revolved around nuclear energy and power stations. 

 Dr Delamothe, the Acting Minister for Mines and Attorney-General in Queensland was unsure about whether the Minister for National Development had seen  Mr Camm,  the Queensland Minister for Mines, before  Mr Camm  went abroad. But  Dr Delamothe  drew the attention of the meeting to a telegram sent by the Queensland Government after 2nd March. That telegram stated: 
Such proposal- 
That is, for the Commonwealth to take powers from the low water mark: 
. would negate the firm understanding by State Ministers at their last meeting that there would be a further meeting or meetings before legislation. 
The South Australian Minister for Mines,  Mr de  Garis had this to say: 
Yes, 1 had a visit from  Mr Swartz.  The question of off-shore minerals did not arise in the discussions until 1 raised it myself with him, and there was absolutely no doubt in my mind from that interview that the Commonwealth would legislate in relation to off-shore minerals from the low water mark. 
The Tasmanian Minister for Mines.  Mr Bessell,  was absent from Tasmania when the Minister for National Development visited thai State. The minutes report  Mr Bessell  as saying: 
I understand (hat if  Mr Swartz  discussed this matter wilh anybody, it would bc with the Premier.  Mr Be  thu lie, but ire h.ive no indication cither in the Mines Department or the Attorney-General's Department that any discussion look place in relation to this legislation whatsoever. 
At a later stage in the minutes.  Mr Fife  sums up by saying: 
The summary of the complaints that we have made this morning is that there has been no prior consultation. 

 Mr Griffith made a remark to this effect: 
Therefore it appeared thai allegations of private consultations in this matter are not correct as from the statements made around this table, he did not see us all. 
But perhaps the most devastating of all statments recorded in the minutes of this meeting was made by Queensland's  Dr Delamothe.  He is not an Opposition backbencher trying to make political capital out of an awkward situation for the Government. He is the highly respected  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party in the Queensland Government. But he makes this claim: 
There has been an arrant and. I believe, considered breach of faith on the part of the Commonwealth. 

 Mr Speaker, this is not a small matter. It involves the good faith of the Government and the worth of its undertakings. Please do not ask me to accept that because an agreement is legally unenforceable therefore there is not an agreement. What kind of government would rely upon that argument? How can government function honourably and decently on that basis? It seems to me that the Government has acted in the last few months as though it had a clean slate in this matter, whereas in reality 1 do not believe anyone who goes through the records and minutes could imagine for a  moment  that that is the case. I think the House will agree that the documents I have quoted establish two things: Firstly, the Commonwealth entered into an agreement and, secondly, that agreement has not been honoured, or should I say more accurately it has been dishonoured. It is quite wrong to say that the States had rejected the Commonwealth proposal. They have certainly not rejected it; all they had done was to suggest an alternative. They believed negotiations and discussions were still under way. After all, it took 3 years before agreement was reached on the petroleum offshore legislation. We had been negotiating on this matter for only 6 months. If there has been excessive delay in resolving this matter, the Commonwealth has probably been just as culpable as the States. It is my belief that the honouring of Government undertakings is essential, and that if this is to be described as old-fashioned morality all 1 can say is that the sooner we revert to a bit of old-fashioned morality the better it will be for Australia and for the governed as well as for those who do the governing. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation a question relating to air services to and from Canberra. Is it a fact that bookings for some flights out of Canberra have to be made up to 3 weeks in advance because of the inadequacy of air services from Canberra? When does the Government propose that the national capital be regularly served by modern jet aircraft like the DC9s and the Boeing 727s, with their greater speed and passenger capacity? ls it correct that the runways at Canberra Airport are not long enough for modern jets? If this is so, when is the Government going to remedy this situation? 
I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his statement said: 
Yet I do not believe the honourable member for Farrer would make me statements he has made unless he thought he had a basis for them. 
I realise, of course, that the Prime Minister sincerely believes the statement he has made, but I feel completely unconvinced by this explanation from the Prime Minister. I have already made my statement in the House, and I do not want to elaborate at any great length on what I have said; but I do want to reply to some of the questions that have been raised by the statement of the Prime Minister. First of all, it is remarkable to note that this statement of the Prime Minister does not anywhere say that there has been a change of the basis on which we and the .Stales were getting together. It is acknowledged by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was then the AttorneyGeneral, that when we met in September we were discussing Commonwealth legislation beyond the 3-mile limit and State legislation up to the 3-mile limit. There has been a complete change in this; yet it has not been acknowledged by the statement. 
We were told by the Prime Minister that there was a promise that the State Ministers would be informed, and he said that each individual member of the Australian Minerals Council was informed. How were they informed? I, have already drawn attention to the Mines Ministers meeting, which was held in Melbourne on 13th March. It is quite obvious that only 1 of the 6 State Mines Ministers had any intimation or any information at all that there was to be a change and that we were to legislate from the low water mark. This was the South Australian Minister, who said that the only reason he received that information was that he had raised the matter himself. So the only alternative way in which the State Ministers could have been informed was by a telegram that was sent out the day before the Governor-General's Speech, and I understand that not every Minister received his telegram before that Speech was made. So it cannot really be said that each individual member of the Council was informed. 
The Prime Minister said of me that I had agreed to further discussions and that there have been further discussions. I honestly believe, with great deference to the Prime Minister, that it is a quibble to say that there have been further discussions. 
There has been one further meeting of the State Mines Ministers. It was held in Melbourne on 26th March, long after the decision had been taken by the Commonwealth to legislate unilaterally on a different basis to the one that it had been discussing with the States and long after the announcement by the Governor-General that this was proceeding. Really, is it not just a fourth form debating point to say that I had said further discussions' and that I have not said 'prior discussions'? Does anyone believe that when I said 'further diversions' I meant further discussions after the Government had made up its mind? 
Then we are told that when on one occasion I said 'this', it did not refer to off-shore mining legislation, but that what it referred to was administrative arrangements or the issuing of titles. Could anyone think that when J said: 'We will have a further meeting', I would have called together the 6 State Mines Ministers, who are very busy men, only to discuss the issuing of some title. Does anyone think that I would have taken it to Cabinet if what I meant by this was only the issuing of a title or further administrative arrangements? Of course not. lt was perfectly clear in my mind, and I believe it was perfectly clear in the minds of the State Mines Ministers, that what I was referring to was further discussions on off-shore oil legislation, and there was a need for further discussions because, as the then Attorney-General has said, we were hoping for a joint arrangement under which we would legislate from the 3-mile mark and the States would have a similar type of legislation up to the 3-mile mark. We were told by the Prime Minister today that 1 had said there would be further meetings and that there have been further meetings. 
Surely no-one believes that a meeting of Ministers after the Government has made up its mind, after it has committed itself, to talk about some administrative procedure fulfils that commitment. As a matter of fact, they were most unproductive meetings. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has circulated among Government members a copy of the notes taken by the Government at the meeting. These show how unproductive the discus^ mons were. 
The transcript reads: 

 Mr SWARTZ 

. Is there objection to officer discussions proceeding? 

 Mr FIFE 1 cannot commit NSW officers to discuss until we and our Cabinet have seen the legislation 

 Mr SWARTZ 1 will refer the Slates' document to the Prime Minister for information. I have said the position is irrevocable. 

 Mr GRIFFITH 

On this basis I cannot agree that my officers would take part in discussions. 

 Mr DEGARIS 1 cannot give an undertaking. 

 Mr FLETCHER 

Is not the Bill the end of the road and the point beyond recall? 
It finishes with the Minister for National Development saying: 
We have reached a point where we cannot achieve anything by further discussion. I will let you have the Bill as quickly as possible. I assume that after this there would be some discussions. 
If that is what is meant by further discussion with the States, I reject the suggestion that anything is achieved by holding a meeting of that sort. It is quite obvious to me that there are 2 points that this House has to decide on. Firstly, was a proposal made to the States? Secondly, was a commitment given to hold further discussions? On the first question of whether a proposal was made to the States, I think it is perfectly obvious that it was. If one looks at the transcript of the meeting of 26th September last year one will see on page 2 that  Mr Griffith  said: 
The State Ministers note that the Commonwealth proposal envisages State control of territorial waters. 
At page 30  Mr Fife  is reported as saying: 
But your legislation will only apply outside the 3-mile limit. 

 Mr Bowen replied: 
Yes, but it will be on the stipulation that you have similar identical legislation within the 3-mile limit. 

 Mr Griffith then said: 
But under this proposed legislation who would have the legal rights within the 3-mile limit? 

 Mr Bowen replied: 
Probably a designated authority who would derive his authority in the case of up to the 3-mile limit from the State legislation and outside from the Commonwealth. 
I believe it is quite obvious that a proposal was made to the States. Of course, the States did not accept it immediately. They did not reject it or accept it. They put an alternative - an alternative they strongly believed in - that there should be similar legislation to the off-shore oil legislation. I promised to take that to the Cabinet and to report bask to them. I do not believe that the Prime Minister or anyone else believes that I did not have the authority to make this offer. It is quite obvious to anyone who knows anything about the workings of Cabinet government that I did not write the speech; it was prepared by my Department and the Attorney-General's Department on the basis of Cabinet's decision. If there is any suggestion that I had no authority the decision should be produced. 
The extraordinary thing is that the fact that I believed that there had been a commitment apparently was not realised by our Government. I realise that my friend and colleague the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  had only just come into this portfolio. It would have been quite imposible for him to have read the minutes. One would not have expected him to have done so. He had an enormous amount of work to do in learning about his department and in visiting the State Ministers. Nevertheless, it seems extraordinary to me that at a meeting of this size, which was attended by 14 Commonwealth representatives, it was not reported fully to Cabinet that I, as Minister, had given an undertaking that there would be further discussions and consultation. I have no doubt whatsoever that a commitment was given. 1 shall bore the House briefly by quoting from the transcript of the meeting to show why I believe this happened. I said: 
I am prepared to meet the Ministers for Mines as soon as possible after we have had an opportunity of discussing this in the Cabinet-- 
By 'this' I was not, as I have already said, referring to the issuing of leases but to the off-shore mining legislation. I went on to say:  but it would obviously be essential before that Mines meeting that we should have had this opportunity of some discussions and as you all know you cannot always get an immediate decision. Perhaps we could have a meeting just before Christmas but I don't see much chance of anything before that. 
The transcript continues: 
I ask leave to make a personal explanation. 
My question to the Postmaster-General concerns representations I have had recently from an engineer in the Postmaster-General's Department in my electorate who claims that he speaks for nearly 70 engineers in the country areas of New South Wales and who also claims that the PMG engineers now find themselves in a depressed and overloaded position because of alleged inadequacy of pay and a shortage of engineers. Is there an extreme shortage of PMG engineers in country centres? Is it a fact that an application for increased salaries was recently heard by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? If this is a fact, and the engineers are dissatisfied with the result of their appeal to the Commission, what steps should they take to appeal against what some of them, at any rate, feel to be an unsatisfactory decision? 
As one who was associated with the earlier assessment of this project I am delighted to have the opportunity of congratulating the Government on its decision and to support that decision. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that he had great faith in water conservation. I also have great faith in it. It is extraordinary that water, although most inert in its natural form, immediately becomes a very fiery topic the moment you start putting it into a dam. Our nation seems to be split into 2 widely divergent groups. There are those people who say that Australia is the driest continent in the world and that therefore we cannot afford to allow one drop of water to run out to sea. On the other hand there are those who say that all irrigation is uneconomic; that there is only one thing worse than allowing water to run into the sea and that is to store it in uneconomic dams. 
Obviously, between these 2 extremes, which are poles apart, there is opportunity for ordinary mortals to determine where they stand. I find myself standing perhaps not as far out as someone like  Sir William  Hudson who advocates water storage to the greatest possible extent: but nevertheless I support him, the honourable member for Dawson and the others who advocate, increasingly, conservation of water. On the other end of the scale we have people like  Dr Davidson  and our colleague, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who walked out earlier, who I think believes that under no circumstances should any dam be built. However, perhaps I am doing the honourable member an injustice. It may be all very well to go ahead with projects such as the Eastern Suburbs Railway and the Opera House, but some people say: 'For heaven's sake, do not build something that is going to be of great advantage to the nation because it will develop remote areas and produce more exportable surpluses'. This seems to me to be the view that some honourable members take. 
I have had the opportunity of being responsible in the Commonwealth sphere for Australia's water development for some. 5 years or more and I am proud of what has been achieved in that time. This latest decision will go even further towards showing that the Commonwealth is anxious to do the most that it can in this feld. lt is all very well for an economist sitting in an ivory tower to question the wisdom of a decision like this and to say: 'Do not build a dam because you might grow a bit more sugar and you may have difficulty in getting rid of it', lt is quite, a different matter for politicians because we do not sit in ivory towers. We have to deal with people and we have to make decisions. It is no good telling a cane grower at Bundaberg that it does not matter that he cannot achieve his full mill peak this year because someone else in northern Queensland will be able to lake up the amount that he does not produce. This does not do the chap at Bundaberg much good. It does not do the people of the city of Bundaberg much good after a disastrous season to be told that we can produce somewhere else. Therefore this project is what I would call a risk operation. 
Bundaberg, one of the largest areas of coastal northern Queensland, suffers from drought. It is very prone to drought, lt is subject to wide variability in seasons. Because of this farmers in the area have attempted to irrigate from underground water supplies. As more and more people are doing this we find that the supply is likely to fail. Even in spite of a relatively good fall of rain recently I understand that the water levels have dropped dangerously. As the water level drops the salinity is likely to increase. As the water level near the sea drops naturally sea water flows in underground and the salinity level increases. We cannot just sit back and say: 'Bad luck old chap. We fed details of this project into a computer and found that the cost benefit analysis is not. as good as it should be. You have had it. Someone else can grow more sugar cane elsewhere.' ft is very easy to say these sorts of things but let us face up to the fact that Bundaberg is a very highly developed community. If these people had to move off their farms, as they would eventually if nothing were done to improve their water facilities, then it would mean moving a large number of farmers and resettling them elsewhere. In the long run the cost probably would be far greater than the cost of providing them with additional water, as is proposed in this legislation. 
The Queensland Government - and after all, the States are responsible for the development of the water resources within their boundaries - has shown its faith in this project. The project is now the Queensland Government's No. 1 priority because it will increase the security and efficiency of the farmers in this area. The Queensland Government, out of quite meagre resources, has made available an amount of $8. 3m for weirs in this area. That shows that the Queensland Government is backing its faith and judgment by expenditure - expenditure which it can ill afford because Queensland, although it has probably the greatest water resources in Australia, has only a relatively small annual amount, over and above its annual maintenance costs for irrigation projects, to develop now projects such as this. 
In the Bundaberg area sugar represents about 90% of the gross value of the. products of the district. In fact about 16% of Queensland's total sugar production comes from that area. One does not know what the future holds in respect of world markets for sugar. I think it is not unreasonable to predict that there will be some increase in world sales over a period of years. But it is certainly true to say that there is a gradual increase of sales in Australia and this is based mainly on the increase in population. 
Much has been said about systems of cost benefit analyses. We have had quite a long talk tonight from the honourable member for Dawson about these cost benefit analyses. I am a little bit afraid that we tend to make cost benefit analysis a new type of god. Figures are fed into a computer, something comes out the other end and if it is I or belter we say: 'Righto, go ahead' and if it is less we say: 'Sorry, we cannot proceed'. Things are not as easy as that. I have had experience of looking at cost benefit analyses. 1 know the difficulties. Just take sugar as an example. How can we make an accurate analysis of whether it is economic to develop a new area or stabilise an existing area when over a period of about 4 to 5 years the price of sugar on the world market has fluctuated between Stg 105 and Stgl3? These are the sorts of problems that we run up against in every aspect of primary production. 
Goodness knows, wool has been much more stable over a period, 1 suppose, than any other commodity. Yet, as I have said before, the fluctuations of prices on my own place have varied over a 7-year period from a wool cheque of 2,400 up to a wool cheque of 51,000. Today it is down to $20,000. Had a cost benefit analysis been carried out, which figure would one have accepted? Of course, if I had carried out a cost benefit analysis before I went on to my property I would have worked it out and based it on wool production. However, because wool production has become less economic I, as so many other people have done, have swung away from this product. Today I find that only about one-third of the  gross  returns on my property come from wool. So had I carried out a cost benefit analysis on the cost of production of wool I would have found that today I was getting an income from something completely different. This applies to every form of primary production. A person can do his best to decide what he thinks he will grow, but the farmer, of course, knows better. If there is a sudden improvement in the price of one commodity and a drop in the price of another, he will make a switch. It does not matter who decides whether it is economic or not - the farmer is the one who makes the final decision. Therefore, let us not get carried away with cost benefit analyses. 
One thing 1 could not understand in the speech given by the honourable member for Dawson was when he talked about the recent decision in this House on whether we should have the Dartmouth Dam or the Chowilla Dam. He said that members did not receive a cost benefit analysis and that the Parliament had to make its decision without being told what the benefits were. 1 cannot understand this because there were circulated to all honourable members cost analyses of the cost of finalising the Chowilla Dam, which was about $57m, and the cost of building Dartmouth which was almost exactly the same - $57m. So, there was a cost analysis. On the benefit side we told everyone quite clearly that by building Dartmouth we would get about 5 times as much water as we would get by building a dam at Chowilla. Surely this gives the wherewithal for a cost benefit analysis because after all, the water goes into the same river and is used for producing the same crops. So, I just could not understand what the honourable member was saying. Surely the benefits can be assessed. 
The honourable member for Dawson wants the technical evaluation to be made available. There is quite a bit to be said for making a technical evaluation available but we always come up against the problem of: Do we make available confidential figures on which government decisions are based? If we started doing that we would get a resistance on the part of technical officers and departmental officers to make available full details, knowing that the figures were to be subjected to scrutiny. Immediately someone would say: *Oh, but this is not right. There ought to be something added on or taken off*. This matter would proceed to debate on something which was technical information made to the Minister himself and on which the Minister and the Government must make their decision. Therefore, I think we should hesitate before we call for reports of every sort by technical and departmental officers. This has always been the approach of governments, not only this Government but previous governments. 
The honourable member also mentioned the ad hoc approach. 1 do not know what has happened in this case but I do know that in the original decision - when we made our decision on the national water resources development programme - we asked the various States to give the Commonwealth their lists of projects. Some of them gave their projects in an order of priorities, as they saw them, but the States did give a list of various projects. 1 do not remember how many there were, but I think the number was between 25 or 30. The Commonwealth then proceeded tq try to assess the benefits compared with the costs of those projects. We made a list and selected the top half dozen or so for a very much closer look. Then we made our final selection of those which fitted w thin the $50m project. As a matter of fact, the amount went over $50m - we finished up at about S55m. But, certainly there was no ad hoc approach on this occasion. We selected those projects which we believed would give the greatest benefit. 
The reason the Kolan scheme as such was not accepted was firstly because it was not stated by Queensland to be its No. 1 priority, although that did not necessarily mean that we would not have selected another one; but a lot of the work which has now been done on this project was not then done. In actual fact, the present scheme is a different scheme from the one which was then put up and costed in this cost benefit analysis. 
I just want to say briefly that I believe there are enormous benefits to be obtained from irrigation. Like the honourable member for Dawson, I am sorry that the honourable member for Bradfield is not in the chamber because he is a person who seems to see no benefit at all. But let us look at what we are getting out of irrigation. In Victoria, for example, 3% of the area which is devoted to agriculture is irrigated and it is responsible for 20% of the entire agricultural production of Victoria. Let us consider the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area. As the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  knows, this area produces annually crops that have a gross value of over $30m. Until recently this production was based on only one relatively small dam. the Burrinjuck Dam. In Queensland less than 1% of its producing areas - just over % actually - is irrigated, but production from irrigation areas contributes over 1 1 % of the estimated gross value of Queensland's primary production. In the Namoi Valley is the Keepit Dam which we are told is an expensive dam. So it was expensive. It was built in fits and starts by the Labor Party when it was in office and it was much more expensive than it need have been. I am sorry to introduce this political note into the debate. The annual production on the Namoi is of the order of $4.7m and this would be sufficient to pay for the Keepit Dam in about 8 years. From that time on the production would be showing a profit. 
The same sort of thing is true of the Ord River scheme. The honourable member for Bradfield suggests that the Ord project is a white elephant and that a dam should not have been built there. How many people stop to think that although the diversion dam cost about SI 8m of Commonwealth and Stale money - and it is, of course, fairly expensive when compared with the cost of the main dam - at present the small number of farmers there are producing about $2. 2m worth of goods annually and these are either import replacement goods or are goods earning export income for Australia. These farmers are not in full production yet. Within about 8 years production from that area would be sufficient to pay for the capital that was expended by the State and Commonwealth governments in developing the Ord project. Of course, as time passes other crops, such as sorghum, will emerge, and there also will be beef production. There are vast resources in the Ord area. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke about the yield of various dams. lt is interesting to note that the main dam being built on the Ord al a cost of S20m will have a yield of over 1 million acre feet per annum. The Chowilla Dam, about which there has been so much dispute in South Australia, would have cost 3 times as much as the Ord Dam and would have had a yield of about 200.000 acre feet per annum. If 15% of Australia's water resources is harnessed in the Ord - more than everything that comes out of the Snowy Mountains scheme  -  I cannot believe that we will not in time be able to produce there soundly and economically the various products that we require. We must realise that we will require them. I see my friend from Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  smiling, but let us consider beef production, for example, lt is all very well to say that we are dependent on export markets for our beef production, but we consume about two-thirds of what we produce and export the remaining one-third. These are rough figures, of course. If our population is going to increase from 12 million today to between 25 million and 28 million at the end of the century surely we must increase our beef production considerably even to cater for home consumption quite apart from the increased exports which the world will probably need by then. Let us not talk of the Ord being a white elephant. Of course it has ils problems. I do not know of any primary producing area in the world that sooner or later does not have some problems, because there are problems caused by overproduction and by restrictions imposed by the European Common Market, by the United Slates of America and other countries. 
All I can say is that I am proud of the contribution that the Government has made over the years to water conservation, lt will be 6 years next week since 1 became Minister for National Development and during the lime that I and my successor have handled that portfolio the Commonwealth Government has done an enormous amount to increase the conservation of water. When all the works now under construction are completed there will be about 7 times more water stored for irrigation in Australia than there was 20 years ago. We have set up the accelerated measurement programme of surface and underground waters under the Water Resources Council. We have instituted the national water resources development programme wilh its initial $50m programme, and now it has a $100m programme for the next 5 years. We have found money for the Ord River project, for the Blowering Dam. for the Snowy Mountains scheme, for flood mitigation works in northern New South 
Wales, for hydro-electric schemes in Tasmania and for the Western Australian Comprehensive Water Scheme. We have retained sections of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority to assist in developing projects throughout Australia, throughout South East Asia and in other parts of the world. We have introduced water scholarships. I think we can be proud of the development that has occurred. 
The proposed grant will be a section 96 grant to Queensland, the State with the greatest water resources in Australia. I do not want to enter into the argument - because it would be a long one - as to whether we should give section 96 grants or whether we should give the States greater tax reimbursements and enable them to make their own decisions as to where additional money should be spent, but when we give section 96 grants T believe that it is urgently necessary to exercise supervision to ensure that Commonwealth money is correctly spent, I do not believe that in respect of water conservation there has been any undue interference by the Commonwealth. Wc have had the best of relations with the Queensland Government. Our water authorities, through, the Department of National Development and the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, have worked closely with Queensland authorities on the Fairbairn Dam and I am sure they will continue to do so in this instance. I support the Government's decision. T am afraid that I cannot support the amendment moved by the Opposition because I have grave reservations about making available secret and confidential reports from the Government's advisers. I believe we should look very closely at the proposal because it could lead a lot further than anyone realises. 
Sitting suspended from S.58 to 8 p.m. 
The aircraft industry, by its very nature, is subject to violent fluctuations not only in Australia but throughout the world. When the 
Royal Australian Air Force needs an aircraft it needs it quickly. These aircraft cannot be produced at the rate of a few each year over a period of 10 or 15 years. The RAAF wants an aircraft quickly and hopes, when it buys it, that it will last a decade or even longer. There always will be periods of stress in the aircraft manufacturing industry when inadequate numbers of skilled workmen are available and there always will be periods of excess workmen when there is a drop in activity after orders are completed. 
Why do we need an aircraft industry in Australia? There are number of reasons. I suppose the first is that it helps to provide employment. We are told that something like 7,000 people are employed in this industry. Quite a number of them are employed on civilian work and not on aircraft production. We need an industry to provide a nucleus on which to expand in case it is necessary, particularly in wartime. However one cannot foresee the sort of expansion over a long 5-year period such as was the case in World War II because I do not believe that that type of global war will eventuate again. We need an aircraft industry to reduce the cost of purchases of both civilian and Service aircraft. When we say we are producing an aircraft in Australia people tend to think that we are fully producing it. We are not doing this. Although 60% of the basic Mirage aircraft is made in Australia, if we take into account all the avionics probably only about 30% of the final cost of an operational Mirage is incurred in Australia. 
It has been said that we need an aircraft industry to earn money from exports. In this regard we have had some success in various fields. We would have had much greater success with the Jindivik had it not been for the United States policy that it would not purchase Australian made equipment as against American made equipment unless there was a vast difference in the cost. The Americans wanted to purchase the Jindivik years ago but succeeded in doing so only fairly recently because there was no doubt that it is much better than any alternative produced in the United States. We need an aircraft industry in order to produce spares quickly. When I was Minister for Air a Sabre would have had to be abandoned had we not had local production. It suffered a rather bad explosion. We were able to repair it and get it back into service because we had a local industry. The aircraft would not have been repaired if we had had to get most of the parts from overseas. We need to be able to produce modifications and to service aircraft. Then I suppose we need an aircraft industry in order to be independent of overseas supply and control. This is important, particularly since one or two European countries from whom we have purchased equipment have tried to direct us, in a most ham fisted way, about where that equipment should be used. 
But there are drawbacks to this policy. The greatest drawback with local production is that you tend to get a set-up in which something designed in Australia almost inevitably turns out to be not as good as best aircraft designed and flying overseas. Then, by pressure of events, the RAAF is forced to take something which is second best. Australia has been particularly fortunate in this respect. I would say that plane for plane the RAAF matches or exceeds almost all air forces operating throughout the world because we have been able to go overseas and take our pick. I would hate us to get down to a state of affairs in which we were forced to use something other than the best, particularly in the important field of combat. Perhaps it is different in the case of transport aircraft or other aircraft of that sort. We have to decide whether we want the RAAF to be just a public relations show for Australian industry or whether we want it to be the best equipped air force in the world. I see that my colleague the honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is in the chamber. At one stage he and I were operating in the same theatre. I know that we did not give a damn who made the aircraft we were flying in. All that we were worried about was whether it was better than the aircraft we were facing. At one unfortunate period when I was doing long range unarmed reconnaissance the aircraft I was in was not the best. There is a future for the industry in Australia. It lies in repairs, maintenance and modifications and in a number of projects such as the Jindivik, the Ikara, the Turana and others that are being looked at. It also lies in making components. I believe it is essential that when we place orders for defence equipment overseas we have an agreement that many of the components that can be made in Australia shall be made in Australia. This is not a debate on whether or not we have an aircraft industry but a debate on what is to be the level of activity in that industry. 
Unfortunately I found myself in agreement wilh only a very little of what was said by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  Some people may wonder that I found myself in agreement with anything he said. However, I agree with some of his earlier remarks about the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. I believe that the Snowy Mountains scheme has been magnificent. It has been carried out exceedingly well and is one of the man made wonders of the world. We should pay a tribute to the initial Commissioner,  Sir William  Hudson, and the present Commissioner,  Mr Dann,  for the excellent way in which the work has been carried out. 
The scheme has taught us new skills. For example, it introduced tendering which was most unusual as most of the work previously done was carried out by day labour forces. Today, tendering for major construction works, particularly dams, is almost commonplace. In fact it is now unusual not to have tenders. I should say that great care must be exercised, and has been exercised by the Authority, in accepting tenders. No firm should be asked to tender unless it has the capability to undertake the work. The Snowy Mountains Authority has been very effective in this respect. Also, while one does not want to see great profits made by the contracting firms, neither does one want to see them operate at a loss. Again the Snowy Authority has been competent in assessing the likely cost of works and as a result there have been no major tragedies of companies underestimating the cost of work in the Snowy scheme. The Authority has made tender ng much more common in Australia. It has helped to develop Australia's earth moving firms. We now have a number of major firms which can tender for work whereas earlier, in postwar years, most of the work had to be tendered for by overseas organisations, using Australian labour as well as they could. This has built up the expertise that we now possess. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority helped to develop in engineering firms skills such as, for example, that of producing and welding the high tensile steel which went into the Murray 1 pipeline. Again, that project was one of the great examples in the world. It is true that there are larger pipelines than the Murray  i  pipeline and that there would be some operating at a higher pressure. But if one combines the size and pressure of the pipeline, at the time it was constructed there was nothing comparable elsewhere in the world. These are the sorts of things that it has built up. lt has developed an area both in power and in water. It has enormously improved Australia and developed us as a nation. Something like 2 million acre feet of water per annum which previously flowed out to sea is diverted inland and it is provided at no cost to the farmer. During the recent drought we know that about three-quarters of the water flowing down the Murrumbidgee River was water which otherwise would have flowed out to sea. We know that from the power point of view it has played an enormous part in developing the power resources in Australia. Of course, the great advantage of hydro power is that there is a spinning reserve which can be brought on line in a matter of seconds instead of having to wait for hours for the older type of plant to get up steam. 
We know thai the Snowy Mountains Authority is working on the first pump storage in Australia. Water is used for a very short period - perhaps for only an hour a day - to generate an enormous amount of peak load power and then offpeak cheap power is used to pump the water back again after it has been caught in a dam below the turbines. We have an inter-connection with New South Wales and Victoria. These are the sorts of advantages that we have obtained. No words of praise &gt;are too high for what has been done by the Authority, and especially by the original Commissioner,  Sir William  Hudson, who I regard as a great Australian. Even though he Was born in New Zealand I think he probably regards himself more as an Australian now. Unfortunately, the Labor Party seems to ignore the problems and it does not really seem to understand what it is talking about. It does not realise - or. does it? - that the States have the constitutional responsibility in this field. 
I am sorry that it was necessary to bring politics into this. I would have hoped that it would have been possible to keep politics completely out of it. Of course, the honourable member for Lang in order to get into the act said that the implementing of the Snowy Mountains scheme was a monument to the foresight and the planning of the Labor Government. One admires the late  Mr Chifley  for being the person who finally took the step to develop the Snowy Mountains Authority But, of course, this was the result of work, built up over a very long period. Even in the last century surveys were carried out. The New South Wales Government in the 1930s commissioned a consultant from London to come and carry out investigations. This was the Stevens-Bruxner Government. Of course, this information built up. Finally just before the 1949 election the charge was exploded to signify the commencement of this great work. Of course, the honourable member for Lang did not say that it was exploded 4 miles from where the dam was eventually built. lt is now under water. The Labor Party was in a' hurry to get into this production, but the honourable member for Lang said this was a monument to the foresight and planning of the Labor Government. Another monument to the so-called foresight and planning of the Labor Government was the construction of the township of Eucumbene. This was to be undertaken by the New South Wales Labor Government with a day labour work force. After it had been there a long time it had not even succeeded in building the township, let alone a dam. Eventually  Sir William  Hudson was able to persuade the Government to relinquish this project. He called tenders and this was finally completed ahead of schedule. Had it been left with the New South Wales Labor-controlled Department, goodness knows if the townsite would have been completed by now. 
I am afraid that the Labor Party cannot face up to the fact that it does not have a good record when it comes to water conservation. Let us look at its record in the States. It had an appalling record in New South Wales. We are told that Labor was in office for 23 years. During that time it commenced and completed only one major dam. lt is true that it finished some which were already being built by the previous Government and it initiated others which it did not complete. The Glenbawn Dam was started in 1946 at an estimated cost of .1.5m. It was completed in 1958 at a cost of 13m. The Burrendong Dam was started in 1946 at an estimated cost of 2m, and it was not completed until late 1966 at a cost of 20m. The Labor Party's record was exactly the same in Queensland. We find there that after virtually 30 years of Labor Government the total capacity of all major irrigation storages in Queensland was 330,000 acre feet. What a tragic result! By 1972 the storage capacity will be 2.2 million acre feet. We find that South Australia, which is the state from which the rather vocal member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who has been trying to interject comes, was so cynical that it was the only State in Australia that was prepared to do without the Dartmouth Dam just to defeat the good Government that was there. It knows it has to build that dam. It must be built. But it is so cynical about water conservation that that is what, it was prepared to do. 
Let me return to the Bill. The whole trouble seems to be that the Labor Party does not understand, first of all, that the States have the constitutional responsibility. The only way that the Snowy Mountains scheme could be initiated was under a defence power. It is perfectly obvious that th;s defence power would not hold water now. Excuse me for making such a pun. Such a defence' power would not be accepted by the courts now. Of course, the defence power was used first of all, and then the New South Wales and Victorian Governments passed special Acts Which gave constitutional authority for the construction of the Snowy Mountains scheme. But the Snowy scheme could not be set up as some great vast national water conservation authority to which $500m could be given and then told: 'Go out and build dams'. It does not have the power to do it. The Commonwealth has power to do this only in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. This is something that the Labor Party just does not realise. It does not realise that the Snowy Mountains Authority is not a construction authority. 
The Labor Party has made a lot of the fact that it wants the Snowy Mountains Authority maintained as a construction authority. But the Snowy Authority has never been a construction authority. It has never built a major dam in its life. It has built some township sites and roads; it has done some of the race lines; but it has never built dams. What has happened, of course, is that it prepares the design of the dam, it investigates the dam site, and it then calls tenders. Contractors get the tender. These contractors who are now completing tenders in the Snowy are available for work in other parts of Australia. They will be available to carry out work for State water conservation and irrigation authorities. The States have these authorities. They are very competent and they have been in existence for a very long time - a lot longer than the Snowy Mountains Authority. 
One of the problems is that the Snowy  Mountains Authority sold itself very well. Its public relations were magnificent. It has some people in Australia - perhaps some of the members of the Labor Party - almost believing that if we do not have a Snowy Mountains Authority we will never build a dam in Australia. This is just ludicrous, because if we look at the total capacity of major irrigation storages in Australia - I am not in any way deriding the magnificent work that has been done by the Authority - we will find that something like 15% has been created by the Snowy Mountains Authority. The rest are being built now by contractors. In earl:er days some of the work was done by day labour employed by the Public Works Departments or the water conservation authorities of the States. I cannot say too often that the Snowy Mountains Authority has never physically built dams. It has designed and investigated the sites, carried out all the investigation work necessary on the hydrology and the yields of the dams, but it has only constructed roads, aqueducts and townships. It has not even constructed any major tunnels. 
When the Government was looking at the future of this organisation we had to decide whether there was a continuing use for it.  We looked at it very closely. The Government came up with the view, with which I wholeheartedly agreed, that in certain aspects the Snowy Mountains Authority was quite outstanding in Australia and that these elements needed to be retained. There was a need for them in the development particularly of water conservation in Australia - the authority had an excellent laboratory for hydrological works at Cooma - in the letting of tenders for contracts, in the investigation of dam sites and in the design of dams. What had happened was that in earlier days, because it had these facilities, when the Snowy Mountains 
Authority had some spare time and was requested to do a job it took on the job, it was paid for it and everyone was happy. Eventually, when I came into office, I found that this had built up into quite a large organisation. No one had said that there was any reason why it should not proceed, so I agreed, as the Minister had to, to various requests for the Snowy Mountains Authority to undertake such work. But then suddenly a warning shot was fired by the AuditorGeneral who said that he doubted that the Authority had the legal power to undertake this work. It is because of that warning that the present Bill has now been introduced. 
Even though the Government brings in a Bill it has no power at all unless the States bring in complementary legislation. One of the jobs that I had to do, and that my successor has had to do, was to go to the States, tell them the sort of legislation we were proposing and ask them whether they would be prepared to enact similar legislation so that when the Authority did undertake works for the States it would be legally valid. That is the reason why the Bill has come in and why we have said quite definitely that the Authority must not itself construct. It must be only an organisation for investigation and design in this country. Overseas we have full power and therefore the Authority will be entitled, if necessary, to construct, although it is almost certain that it will not be doing construction; it will be supervising tenders as it is doing in Sabah. The Authority actually constructs some of the roadwork although it is more concerned with training local people than with itself constructing. 
The Government is concerned to see that the organisation should not become a sort of vast Socialist enterprise which would take over from people who are working in fields in which they are perfectly competent and able to undertake the work. Both the Commissioner and I have had on occasions to knock back work which the Authority was asked to undertake because we said that it was not a field in which the Authority ought to intrude; it was a field in which there were competent consultants and engineers to undertake the work and they were the ones who should undertake it. In order to ensure that the Authority, perhaps in the hands of another government, does not become a vast Socialist enterprise taking over the construction side of dams in Australia we have had to put these brakes on expansion. We have had to say that there should be a limit to the size of the Corporation. We have had to stipulate categories of -dams and other works for the storage and conveyance of water. We have had to state the functions of the organisation as work of an investigatory, design and advisory nature including the supervision of contracts in the engineering field but not construction in Australia. We have had to say that the Authority can work in Australia for governments but when it is working for private individuals it must be commissioned by private consultants. We have had to set up an advisory committee. 
The Labor Party seems to find all these things anathema. Honourable members should not forget that there is a vast and growing field of very able consultants in Australia. We do not want a Socialist enterprise, one which might be given an unfair advantage, to be able to go in and knock these people out. They have every right to continue and there are far more of them- 
Of course the Labor Party only wants a Socialist organisation. It does not believe in private enterprise. We realise that that is what the Opposition wants and why it is moving these amendments. We believe that ministerial approval is needed. The honourable member for Lang said that getting ministerial approval involves a lengthy delay. Does the honourable member not realise that at the moment the Minister approves every work undertaken by the Authority? I am sure that none of the Commissioners would say there had been undue delay. On the other hand I do believe that the setting up of this organisation will enable consultants to get into fields which they are not in at the present moment. A vast amount of work is being undertaken overseas, particularly in South East Asia. Most of that work is going to the big organisations from the United States of America or the United Kingdom. If a small consultant from Australia applied for some work he would be asked immediately: 'What sort of expertise have you got? What have you got behind you?' If he could go in and say: 'I have not got any expertise in a particular field but the Snowy 
Mountains Authority has told me that it will assist me in that field and we are putting in a joint tender, he would get the work which either of them separately would not have got. 
The Snowy Mountains Authority has a well known name, lt has been able to win contracts overseas and has been able to let out portions of those contracts such as that for the Sabah road. In that respect it has let out the consultant work on the bridges to a well known Australian firm. 1 believe that the combination of the consultant and the Corporation as it is being set up will help Australia to get into this, vast field. Not only overseas but in Australia there is an enormous amount of work. Much of this work is being undertaken by overseas firms. We know very well that had some of the work on the Eastern Suburbs Railway not been undertaken by the Snowy Mountains Authority it would have gone to an overseas firm. We want to see the Corporation and the consultants working closely together. In order to see that there is no unfair and undue competition to the detriment of private enterprise we naturally have had to stipulate that the organisation would be under the Public Service Board for wages and conditions and that it would pay income tax. What is wrong with that? Do not honourable, members opposite expect other organisations to pay income tax? We stipulated that the organisation would charge the normal, standard fees and so it would compete for work on just terms with consultants and assist them to get additional work. 
The extraordinary thing is that the Labor Party seems to think that all you have got to do is create a huge organisation, give it millions of dollars and vast authority and tell it to go off and . spend money, and when it has spent it to come back and ask for more. That is a ludicrous attitude. The greatest shortage in Australia is not of water; it is of money. We would be able to construct any dams if we had the money. I suppose we could print the money, but that would lead to inflation and would not get us very far. We have stepped up enormously, through the proper channels and through the States, the amount of construction and water conservation that is. being undertaken. 1 do not want to go through all this again because 1 have told the House of the enormous increase that there has been in water conservation in the last 20 years. When we came into power the total capacity of water storages for irrigation was 7 million acre feet throughout Australia. lt will be over 50 million acre feet when everything being constructed is completed. We have the national water resources development programme. We have the Australian Water Resources Council with its accelerated programme of measurement of surface and underground water. We have started all these, works with Commonwealth funds. I instance also the Snowy, Blowering and Ord schemes, the Western Australian comprehensive scheme, flood mitigation, and hydro-electric works in Tasmania. We will retain the Snowy organisation to assist in this particular aspect of the development of our water resources. We have set up a hydrology research programme. 1 recommend strongly to the House that this measure be accepted.. 1 am afraid, as I have said, that members of the Labor Party have completely failed, either intentionally or unintentionally, to understand that they do not have the power to set up an organisation which can go out and build dams wherever it wants to go. They do not understand that they lack the legal power to enable this, authority to work in the States. For these reasons I support the Bill strongly. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that one of the Bills now before the House, namely the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, will take sovereignty from the States in certain areas that are now shown on Commonwealth produced maps as State territory - that is, areas acquired by the States since federation by reclamation, port or harbour development or any enlargement of internal waters as a result of the 1958 convention on the continental shelf? Also, is it a fact that the Government has in mind handing back the sovereignty of these areas to the States in a later Bill yet to be introduced? Is this a case of Cabinet hath taken away and Cabinet hath given: blessed be the name of Cabinet? 
I desire to ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question which concerns a recent statement by the Minister that Australia is being subjected to rapidly increasing international drug peddling operations and that this tragic and obnoxious trade is not being deterred sufficiently by the light sentences often handed out by the courts to those convicted. Will he confer with the Attorney-General to see if the laws for drug peddling and drug pushing can be altered so as to set a minimum gaol sentence for this offence as well as the present maximum sentence? While these laws are being reviewed, will he also consider amending the law so as to prevent people arrested with drugs in their possession from obtaining bail so that they will not be able to warn the distribution ring of their arrest? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Farrer respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standard's in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951); and. 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that the secretary of Australia's largest trade union, the Australian Workers Union, has called upon his members not to work the hours recently awarded by an arbitration court decision, nor to accept some rates of pay awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Is it also a fact that . this gentleman has said that any employer sticking to the award will be declared black immediately? Does this action constitute a contempt of the arbitration court? What will the Minister and his Department do to ensure that employers abiding by the law are not victimised by this petty czar? 
1 do not want to follow the bumbling and stumbling contribution of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  but he has questioned various things and I will just reply shortly to them. He has questioned the conduct of elections in South Vietnam. There have been elections there. It is perfectly true that they have not been conducted completely in the way people would like them conducted. Why have they not? One reason is that the Vietcong made an all-out effort to do everything they could to sabotage those elections. By murder, torture and various other means as far as they could they prevented people from going to the polls. Of course, they could not succeed entirely and the elections were held. But is it not extraordinary that we hear so much about whether South Vietnam is a democracy but nothing about whether North Vietnam is a democracy. We do not hear anyone ask who is the Leader of the Opposition in North Vietnam. In South Vietnam we know quite well there was one person from the Assembly who was gaoled for sedition. He had the right of appeal, went to the court, won the appeal and got out of prison. Does this happen in North Vietnam? Of course it does not. The extraordinary thing about the honourable member for Capricornia was that he said it is not our place to decide whether they have a democracy or a dictatorship there. He said he does not himself want to see a dictatorship but, you know, we just wash our hands. If anyone wants to spread dictatorship it is not for us to intervene. What a ludicrous situation this would be. 
It is really futile to say that if a free nation is being attacked by an aggressor we just wash our hands of it and say it is up to them to decide what they like. How childish can you get? We heard him say that the population supported the Vietminh against the French. This I believe was so in the early days. There was no doubt whatsoever that the French were a colonial power and the locals wanted national independence. One cannot blame them for this. When some local organisation which offered independence came undoubtedly many people who were not Communists supported this uprising against the French. But they were not supporters of the Vietminh at all. When South Vietnam became self governing most of these people went to the self government of South Vietnam. One only has to look now. There is no local support, or very little, for the North Vietnamese, Vietminh and Vietcong in South Vietnam. I do not want to waste my time in following a speech which I honestly believe is one of the worst I have beard in this place and I have been here for nearly 21 years. Let me reply to some of the allegations made in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam). 
This speech was notable both for what it said and for what it did not say. What it did not say was the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the increasing Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. No  wonder the Leader  of the Opposition did not say anything about this because he has many people behind him and I think everyone behind him has a different attitude to the Russians. Of course, for the Leader of the Opposition to say what the Australian Labor Party's attitude was would immediately place him in strife. So he kept completely clear of that. What he did say was inaccurate, misleading and distorted. He dealt basically with 4 problems in Asia. He dealt with the problem in Vietnam, the question of Indonesia, the problem of Cambodia and he also dealt with Japan. On Vietnam, one would not have expected his recent globe trotting experience to have altered his stance at all because he believes his present stance is a vote winning stance, lt is an extraordinary thing that when certain people go overseas they go with preconceived ideas. They know what they will see and they can always come back and say they have seen it. That is about what we have heard from the Leader of the Opposition, lt is extraordinary to hear him still saying that the Government's policy on Vietnam is in ruins and that the war has been a failure because today China is no weaker and the United States is no stronger because of the intervention in Vietnam. 
This statement shows a complete lack of understanding of everything that has happened in Vietnam in the last 5 years. Australia did not go to Vietnam to weaken China or to strengthen the United States. It went to help prevent a small independent nation from being overrun by an aggressor because we believe in the right of peoples freely to choose their governments, free from external pressures. The Americans, thank God, went there for the same reason. This policy has been remarkably effective although it has been of considerable cost to the United States and to us. There has not been a period during the last decade in which the position in Vietnam has been better than it is today. They have a stable government, an improving economy and large security forces. The Vietcong and the North Veitnamese infiltration is low. The latter have not won a battle since Tet. More and more the defences of South Vietnam are being taken over by the local inhabitants as their strength increases. So we have been completely justified in doing what we did in Vietnam. Yet the Leader of the Opposition claims that 'all rational justifications or explanations of Australia's present Viet policy have been abandoned'. Does he forget that twice the Australian people have supported our actions when they have been asked at the polls to vote on them? What would a Labor Government have done in these circumstances? I do not doubt that it would have given no help and seen a people go under to be slaughtered, as at Hue. We know the political cadres went in and slaughtered 6,500 people in 2 weeks in that ancient city. 
Only one thing stands between the South Vietnamese and eventual victory and that is the resolution of the people of the United States and, to a lesser extent of course, the resolution of ourselves. That is why we are being bombarded by constant Communist propaganda, by peace movements, by moratoriums, by left wing writers and by Labor Party politicians. The Communists know they cannot win in the field. They hope they can beat us on the home front. I repeat what I said. There is only one thing that can lose the war for us. It will not be lost on the battlefield but by a lack of resolution at home. That is why the Communists, fellow travellers and left wing intellectuals are mounting an allout offensive to try to capture the minds of the free world. Unfortunately many people fall for it. We are about to see mounted again in this country, for example, a socalled Vietnam Moratorium Campaign to try to force a disorderly withdrawal by Australia. The initial effect of this campaign must be to give encouragement to the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. They remember well how the resolution of the French failed in the wake of mounting costs and casualty lists. However they have been persuading themselves that the same will happen to the Americans and to us. Every demonstration in any part of the world must buoy up their expectations and make it easier to forget their enormous losses in the hope of eventual victory. Every nation in the South East Asian area is aware of this. That is why, at a recent Asian Parliamentarians' Union meeting in Taipei, which I attended as an observer for Australia, they passed the following resolution: 
The Council reaffirmed that the responsibility to maintain peace and security in this crucial area rests on all free nations in the Asian and Pacific region and strongly recommended that any proposed reduction of United States or United Nations defence forces be so planned and executed as not to impair regional or national defence capabilities of free Asia and such steps be taken only with prior consultation with the governments concerned. 
Yet the Labor Party says that we should leave South Vietnam tomorrow. Who is right? Members of the Labor Party living thousands of miles from the scene of aggression or those nations on the periphery like Korea, South Vietnam, Japan, Thailand, Cambodia, the Philippines and Indonesia who passed that resolution. 
I have pointed out previously that there is an easy way of determining the Labor Party's foreign policy. Ask yourselves what the Communists would like us to do. Do they want the United States to stop bombing North Vietnam? If that is what they want then that becomes Labor Party policy. Do they want troops withdrawn? Again, of course, that becomes Labor Party policy. Do they want Prince Sihanouk back on the Cambodian throne? Do they want a nuclear free southern hemisphere? Yes, if the Communists want these things, they become Labor Party policy. Do they want the abolition of national service? Once again that becomes Labor Party policy. 
Yes, it is impossible to find any point of difference. I now want to refer quickly to the following statement by the Leader of the Opposition: ti would be difficult to find a parallel for a government which has shown as little interest in, and sense of involvement with, its nearest neighbours as this Government has towards Indonesia. 
Like most of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition this pronouncement is quite unfounded and quite untrue. I want to cite some of the facts. Firstly, Australia was one of the first countries to open a mission in Indonesia and one of the first missions set up by Indonesia was in Canberra. During confrontation, under Sukarno, we managed to maintain reasonably normal relations with Indonesia. We did not cut off our aid and Sukarno did not tell us to go to hell with it as he did the Americans and most of the Western powers. While I am talking of aid I should mention that Indonesia gets a higher amount of our external aid than any other nation excluding, of course, Papua and New Guinea. Unlike most nations, this assistance by Australia is in the form of a grant which does not have to be repaid with interest at a later date; nor does it have to be used exclusively for the purchase of Australian produced goods. Recently the Australian Government announced that Australia is making a commitment of $US60m over 3 years for aid to Indonesia. In addition, Australia has also agreed to contribute $A10m over 3 years to the Special Funds of the Asian Development Bank. So much for aid. 
Trade is increasing enormously. Many Australian firms are now setting up in Indonesia. More are trying to set up in that country but the Indonesians are hesitant to have too much overseas investment and this is delaying some of the opportunities which will be taken by Australia, I hope, to set up in Indonesia and assist the Indonesians to develop their country. We were one of the first to applaud the initiative of Indonesia in calling the conference on the neutrality of Cambodia. 
My time is running out but I want to say that I was interested that the Leader of the Opposition tried to put words into the mouth of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Personally I think the honourable member for Wills can speak for himself. He has always done so in the past and I hope he will continue to do so in the future. As I understand his views, he believes that the North Vietnamese are the aggressors in Cambodia and that the Cambodians should be assisted in resisting that aggression. The honourable member for Wills is not the only member of the Labor Party who believes that the North Vietnamese are guilty of aggression. I ask honourable members to listen to the words in this letter which was signed at Vientiane in Laos on 5th July. I have time to read only 2 extracts from it. The letter was signed by 3 members of the Australian Labor Party. They said: 
We have been profoundly moved by the abundant evidence of your courage and determination to pursue a course seeking only the right to live at peace and in neutrality. We deeply deplore the open and evident aggression being committed against you by your more powerful neighbour. North Vietnam. 
That letter was signed by the honourable member for Wills, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and a Labor  Senator from  South Australia,  Senator Bishop,  because they believed that aggression was taking place. What I have said must make it obvious that it would be tragic for this country to be governed by the Australian Labor Party. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
We were meant to be discussing the estimates for the Departments of Customs and Excise, Primary Industry and Trade and Industry, but it seemed to me that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  spent most of his time on politics and in trying to join the Country Party with the Communists instead of getting down to discussing the estimates before the House. However, he did say that inflation is the killer today of primary industry. 1 am afraid I do not find myself in agreement with him. I realise that no-one wants inflation and that inflation or rising costs makes it difficult for the man on the land but the real killer for the man on the land today is not the fact that his costs have gone up. They have probably doubled in 15 years. The real killer is the enormous drop in the price of wool. I have experienced the price drop from 45c per lb average one year to 34c the next year. That same wool today would probably bring of the order of 26c per lb. That is the real killer. We know that inflation and increased costs present difficulties but they could have been faced when the price of wool was reasonably stable. They cannot be faced when there is this considerable drop in the price of wool. Apparently, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro then went on to say that the farmer is not getting a price that he ought to get today and this could be laid down by tribunals. It is ludicrous to think of a tribunal fixing the price of wool. You would know the cost of production and you would say: 'It costs me this much to produce. I am selling it at X plus 10c a lb. If you do not like it you can leave it. That is the price at which it has to be sold.' We know too well what would happen in the case of wool. They would leave it, obviously, because the situation has been reached where synthetics can replace and have replaced wool in large measure. It is completely unreal to believe that the price can be set by a tribunal or by anyone else and that we can say: This is the price. If you do not want it you' will not get it.' What would happen then would be that we would not sell any at all. We have to meet the market. 
It is all very well for the honourable member to say that the Government is responsible for inflation. I ask: Have Australia's costs increased at a higher rate than world costs? Of course they have not. Although our costs recently have been going up higher than we would want to see them go up, I believe that the Australian economy has been managed extremely well in the last 20 years. In the early 1960s we had a period of very great stability. I can recall when the 'Financial Times' of London awarded Australia the prize for the best managed economy of the year because we did have such stable prices. The primary producer has managed to meet these increased costs that he has had to face by the amount of research that has been done, by the fact that today he can produce more for the same cost, by extension services, by promotion and by trying to make wool a better commodity which will sell better. 1 did not wish to speak on this particular line. 1 wanted to speak on the topic of meat. But before I get on to that I want to mention 1 item referred to by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  last night. It is good to see a member from a city electorate which does not contain very many wool growers taking an interest in wool. It is obvious that he has taken an interest in it and has tried to put forward some suggestions. The one thing that I took exception to in the honourable member's speech was mentioned when he talked about the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who, he said, referred to the Ord River scheme and to cotton which we cannot sell. How on earth does anyone get the idea that we cannot sell cotton? Today we sell every bale of cotton that is produced. Most of our cotton is sold in Australia. Only a few years ago we imported tens of millions of dollars worth of cotton a year. Today we are not only self-sufficient but we have a little bit left over for export. It is true that we do import some long staple cotton of the Egyptian type, but even this has been grown in the Ord River area. As I say, we have a few thousand bales left over for export which, out of a total crop of 50 million bales, is only a drop in the ocean. The fact is that we are producing something here and we are selling it. Why do people say that we produce something we cannot sell? 
I want to refer to the topic of meat. Australia is the largest exporter of beef in the world. This year our exports of beef and other meats are the largest they have ever been. Our total exports were 545,000 tons, of which about 330,000 tons consisted of beef and veal. Almost three-quarters of our exports of beef and veal went to North America. While our exports to the United States of America and Canada are steadily increasing, this is a most temperamental and most difficult market. Temporary restrictions and prohibitions were imposed this year by both those countries. What concerns meat exporters most is the problem of constant inspections by what were described to me by one person today as 'half trained spies'. No-one wants to see meat sold here or in the United States which is killed without due regard to hygiene. He who pays the piper calls the tune. But we want to know that the demands are reasonable and that they are no different from those imposed on the American abattoirs. I believe that some of the American abattoirs, especially those under State jurisdiction, do not conform to our standards. We are told - or, rather, it is inferred, for we are not told anything - that some of the Australian abattoirs are health hazards. How can this apply to such works as Borthwicks and Gilbertsons in Melbourne? The export licences of both those meat works for the United States have been rejected. There are no finer abattoirs in Australia than these. The beef section of Borthwicks was completed only 3 years ago. 
As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  told us yesterday in the House, so far about a quarter of Australia's meat works have been struck off the list. That is about 26 out of a total of just over 100 which provide beef for export. For mutton exports we have virtually none. I think there are three that have the right to export mutton to the United States and some have not yet been inspected. The Minister said yesterday in relation to the number of meat works struck off the list: 
This figure varies from week to week as certain abattoirs are delisted and others are relisted, so the position is in a continual state of flux. 
I am sure that the industry is not happy at having a continual state of flux. They just do not know where they are. There was a time when we were prepared to accept the story then being told that meat works were struck off the list for health reasons. But more and more people are coming to doubt whether it is for health reasons or whether there are not political pressures as well being applied by the producers in the United States who fear too great an influx of Australian meat into the United States. If this is not so I would like to hear it. I would like to hear why our meat works 
States. 
In making this remark I am quoting practical men to whom I have been speaking. They have been to and have seen United States meat works and they have seen and worked in Australian meat works. Let me cite some of the experiences of industry in this matter. Firstly, I have said that some of the American inspectors are regarded by the industry as half trained spies. One meat authority described the problem of satisfying them as like trying to shoot at a moving target which is constantly changing. Many millions of dollars have been spent in trying to upgrade meat works to the American standard, but it has been put to me that the industry in incapable of sustaining the standards that are asked for. Our inspectors believe that the American inspectors are only looking for defects or trifling difficulties. Where a table has laminex on the top they ask should it havelaminex down the side as well or should it have stainless steel on the side. While that argument is going on a meat works worth millions of dollars could be de-listed. The same thing could apply to a dismantled mincer in which the inspector might happen to find half a teaspoon of what could have been old fat. So the problems go on. The inspectors discovered in a large room where cartons were kept a couple of pellets of mice dirt. 
The  industry is  faced with the constant problem of how it can succeed in satisfying standards which are very difficult to satisfy. One would not mind if the standards were laid down and abided by. There appears to be nothing in writing. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  reminds me that the rules are interpreted with the same gay abandon as the rules of the New York Yacht Club. Boning tables which cost tens of thousands of dollars to alter and which are satisfactory when altered have been condemned a few months later. And again, like the case I have previously quoted, there is no right of appeal. 
The improvement in the standard of meat works in Australia in recent years has really been quite dramatic. Should we have to put up with people with 1 year's experience in the United States trying to find trouble? It was put to me that they are almost like that fabulous group known as Nader's raiders. Why was the Wyndham meat works recently de-listed? I know that Wyndham is a fairly old meat works but nevertheless money has been spent on it. It was de-listed only a few weeks before the end of the killing season, thus giving the people in this spot - one of the remote areas of the world - absolutely no hope of getting any stock killed until next year. Could it not have waited another 3 weeks before it was de-listed? Is it true, as I have been told, that the de-listing wau caused by 1 carcass which the inspector should have condemned but which he failed to condemn? The Australian public wants to know the answer to these queries. No-one wants a return to the unhygienic levels of pre-war days, but neither does he want millions spent on improvements which become obsolete in a few months with a change in regulations. 1 am very glad that the Minister for Primary Industry is here. I hope he will do his utmost to see that this unsatisfactory position is cleared up as soon as possible. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, relates to the suggestion made in some quarters that all Australian and American forces should be withdrawn immediately from Vietnam in order to stop further fighting there. Has the attention of the right hon.urable gentleman been drawn to the resolution which was carried unanimously at a recent meeting of the Asian Parliamentarians Union, at which nearly all the freely elected governments in the vicinity of South Vietnam were represented, opposing any reduction of United States or United Nations defence forces in the Asian and Pacific region unless carried out with prior consultation with the governments concerned and planned so as not to impair regional or national defence capabilities? If so, has the Government taken note of this  resolution? Would a premature withdrawal of allied forces from South Vietnam be detrimental to the prospects of peace in this country and perhaps lead to greater bloodshed? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service, concerns a constituent of mine who holds a certificate under section 47 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act saying that he has satisfied the Industrial Registrar that his conscientious beliefs do not allow him to be a member of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union, ls the Minister aware that this man has recently been sacked - obviously for not belonging to a union? Will he investigate the circumstances of this dismissal? Is it not incongruous that certain people appear to deny the right of a worker to have conscientious beliefs against joining a union but believe that he has every right to hold conscientious beliefs against serving in the military forces of his nation? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. He will have noticed that the Opposition has asked at least 4 questions this morning about damage to the embassy of an iron curtain country by alleged right wing extremists. Can the Prime Minister recollect whether the Opposition evinced a similar concern when the American Embassy was attacked by alleged left wing extremists? 
I do not intend to speak at any great length on this Bill because, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has already said, he and the Opposition support the measure. I am delighted to hear this. I do not think it is necessary, particularly in view of the number of Bills on the notice paper and the fact that we hope to conclude our sittings by the end of this week, for me to speak at any great length on this measure. I was glad to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson. Nearly all of us agree that we should have increased water conservation in Australia. I was lucky in that I had the opportunity to be associated for a considerable time with the development of Australia's water resources. Although the Australian Water Resources Council was set up by my predecessor,  Senator Sir William  Spooner, I was responsible for introducing into this Parliament the first of the Bills concerned with the States Grants (Water Resources) Act. This Bill undoubtedly helped to step up the search for underground water and the measurement of surface water. 
As the honourable member for Dawson has said, until the time that the Australian Water Resources Council was set up there was no knowledge in Australia of what our total resources were. I think the first assessment which was brought out by the Australian Water Resources Council horrified a lot of people. This assessment was that Australia had only 280 million acre feet of water and in fact something like one-third of Australia had no measurable run off at all. Australia is undoubtedly the driest continent. In fact, the total run off from the whole of Australia - and this includes areas in northern Queensland, the Northern Territory and Tasmania which are not satisfactory for irrigation - compares very unfavourably with some single rivers in other parts of the world. Many of these rivers have a far greater run off than the whole of Australia. I was glad that I was able to introduce the initial legislation which granted to the States $2.75m over a 3-year period from 1964 to 1967. This grant was made for the purpose of enabling the States to step up facilities for measuring surface and underground water. It is good to see that the grant was later increased to $4. 5m. Under this legislation the grant has risen to $8.2m for the period 1970-73 which is about 3 times the amount of the original grant. 1 believe that most of us consider that this is the way in which we should develop our resources. We have to know what our resources are before we can proceed to develop them. Basic data are necessary for so many things. It is necessary to estimate the water that can be obtained from a river with storage and without storage. It is necessary to determine what the safe yield of a particular reservoir is and what the spillway capacity of a dam is. In the past we have seen dams under-designed or overdesigned. Of course, if a spillway is underdesigned there is a danger of a catastrophe in time of flood. If it is over-designed, far more money than is necessary is spent and therefore one of our resources is wasted. 
Basic data are necessary to design adequate stormwater drains, and also for the design of bridges, culverts, floodways and levee banks to protect settlements against floods that the honourable member for Dawson referred to. We know that floods have occurred in the past and that they will occur in the future. In fact, floods occurred in many areas this year, lt is necessary to know what our resources are in order to estimate the safe yields of underground water storages, the maximum pumping rates and all these sorts of things. We know that recently quite large aquifers have been found in very dry areas in the Northern Territory. They are very large aquifers, but until now we do not know what their safe yield is. Unfortunately, on occasions people over-pump and then there are disastrous results for everyone. There must be limits on the amount of water drawn so that a safe yield can be maintained. 
Basic data are necessary for the diversion and distribution of irrigation water and of course for the scheduling of power produced in the Snowy. We have to know what our resources are so that we know exactly what is a safe yield of power. Otherwise, the supply can be overdrawn so that power will not be available when it is required. But these things are all known to honourable members and 1 do not want to weary them by going into them in detail. But I want to comment on one or two of the matters raised by the honourable member for Dawson. He said that water is still flowing to the sea. Of course, water will be flowing to the sea for the next century because I do not think anyone would expect that we could build dams so large that they could hold all the water and that no water would flow to the sea. Of course, we can build only dams which are regarded as reasonable and economic. There is no point in saying that we should never allow a drop of water to flow into the sea because it would be so expensive to conserve that last drop that it just would not be worth while. 
I agree with the honourable member for Dawson that in Australia we should maintain a reasonable water resources programme. Of course, this is what has been done. An amount of approximately $50m per annum is being spent in Australia today on water conservation and works pertaining to irrigation. In fact, I think that a total amount of $670m has been spent on this work in the last 20 years. Of course, that does not include the considerable amount of money that was spent on the Snowy Mountains projects. We know that about $670m has been spent on that project alone. Of course, this is related mainly to the production of electricity but, nevertheless as a by-product from the Snowy Mountains there is a diversion of water inland, on the average, of 2 million acre feet per annum. This has had an enormous effect in my electorate and in the electorate of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  who is sitting at the table. 
We know that during 1967 that area experienced the driest period on record. Records, which had been kept at Albury for 107 years, indicated that there had never been a year as dry as 1967. The situation would have been even worse without the diversion of water from the Snowy. The situation would have been far worse in the Murrumbidgee area. I believe that approximately three-quarters of the water used in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area in 1967 came from the Snowy and that approximately one-third of the water used in the Murray area came from the Snowy. So this Government is proud of its record in the water resources field. I know that no-one can stand on his record, but we are proud of what we have done in the field of water conservation. 
Of course, basically under the Constitution the primary responsibility for water conservation rests with the State governments. But we were quick to realise that the States are limited in their financial resources. We hold the purse strings. While the States have done their utmost to continue to increase expenditure on water conservation, they would not have been able to go very far if they had not received the assistance which they did. This assistance was provided quite willingly by this Government. So apart from the assistance provided under the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Bill which we are now discussing, the Commonwealth has assisted in many other areas. It has assisted special projects, many of which were too large for the individual State to contemplate. 
I have referred to the Snowy. We also made a large contribution to New South Wales towards the construction of the Blowering Dam. The State was able to find the rest of the money in order to proceed with the construction of the dam. The Ord River Dam, which is now under construction, will cost, all told, about $60m. This again was a project which the Western Australian Government could not contemplate on its own. I am particularly pleased to see that the Ord River project has proceeded, even if when the first charge was blown for the major dam it did not go off. But it went off later, and the dam is now under way. At a cost for the major dam of only some S20m we will have the largest water conservation project in Australia. 
We should not forget that about 15 per cent of Australia's water resources flow down the Ord River each year. This is a greater amount of water than the total amount of run-off from all the Snowy Mountains area. 
I know that there are problems with the Ord River project. There have been problems in the past and there will be problems in the future. But when it is realised that the Ord River is one of our greatest resources, I cannot believe that in the long term we will not obtain great benefits from using this resource, particularly as the river is relatively cheap to dam. The Ord River project has an ideal situation, and in spite of what various people say, I am sure that it will grow crops. Of course, at present it is growing crops which can be sold on the world market. 
The honourable member for Dawson referred to knockers, lt is a fact that in matters concerning resources development we do not always find that people have similar views. Of course, this is natural. We like to have a debate on these matters. But I believe that sometimes people overstate their cases. I am afraid that my good friend the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  overstates the case when he talks about growing crops which cannot be sold. I do not know of any crop which has been destroyed in Australia in the last 20 years because it could not be sold. We are selling cotton and selling it very well on the overseas market. We are selling many other products. 
Of course, it is true that it is not easy to sell agricultural products and that sometimes we have to provide assistance by way of subsidy to help the farmers. Sometimes we have to limit production, as has happened in the case of wheat. But for heaven's sake, let us not adopt this sort of knocker attitude and say: 'We must not spend any more', because I believe that we must go ahead. As I have said, we are now spending at least $50m a year on the development of water resources in Australia and we are also providing many other forms of assistance for water conservation. I believe that this programme should be continued. 
I have mentioned the way in which we have assisted particular projects, such as the Ord River project. We stand ready, when the South Australian Government comes to its senses, to assist it with the Dartmouth Dam. We have made a very generous offer to the South Australian Government, and it is a tragedy that politics have been brought into this matter. It is a great tragedy for the nation, because the sooner we get on with the Dartmouth Dam, the sooner there will be a very considerable increase in the amount of water available in the Murray and a greater degree of regularity of flow. This has been shown by the best engineers in the nation who have looked at all the sites on the Murray. But unfortunately the matter has been fouled up through politics. 
We have provided assistance for the Western Australian comprehensive water scheme. We have provided bridging finance for the Tasmanian hydro-electric scheme. I see ray friend from Tasmania, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  in' the House. Some $40m has been promises to assist with bridging finance for the hydro-electric scheme plus another S5m for the Gordon River road which opened up some of that area. 
Over and above that, we had the national water resources development programme. I am glad that the first major project selected under this was named the Fairbairn Dam. Not only did we allocate that project $50m overall. In actual fact, the amount rose slightly above that figure to $53m. Now the Government has said: That was not enough. We are going to provide $100m in the second programme'. 
J think the next one will probably be the Swartz Dam. I conclude by saying that this matter before us today may be a small matter; nevertheless, it is vitally important. I believe that everything must be known about water resources before water can be conserved adequately. This nation needs water. I believe that the Government can take credit for what it has done oyer quite a relatively short period during the 1960s. It is seeing that Australia is much better situated than it ever was before. It is a little difficult to get the figures concerned but I understand that, when this Government came into office, some 7 million acre feet of water was conserved in major irrigation storages in Australia. When every project now under construction is concluded the total will be over 50 million acre feet and that, I believe, is a monument to this Government. 
I desire to ask the Minister for External Affairs a question. He will recall that last Thursday he was asked a question by the honourable member for Kingston in which this honourable gentleman referred to the Vietnam war as a civil war. Is it not a fact that approximately 8 out of 9 people fighting the South Vietnamese Army today are North Vietnamese soldiers? Is it not a fact also that when these soldiers go down the Ho Chi Minh trail into Laos they are regarded by many members of the Opposition as aggressors, and that in Cambodia at least one prominent member of the Labor Party has said that they are the aggressors? Can the right honourable gentleman explain therefore how it is that when these North Vietnamese soldiers reach the end of the Ho Chi Minh trail they suddenly cease, at least in the eyes of the honourable member for Kingston, to be invaders and become patriots fighting a civil war? 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question. The Minister will- recall that some time ago the Atomic Energy Commission called tenders for a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. Have these tenders been assessed yet? If so, when will a contract be let? Can the Minister say whether '.the Commission favours a power station using natural or enriched uranium? 
 I desire to ask the Minister for Social Services a question. I refer to the floods which are devastating much of New South Wales and in particular the north and north west. I understand that there are a number of Aboriginal settlements on the rivers in these areas. As these settlements have undoubtedly been affected by flooding can the Minister tell me whether his Department is arranging for emergency aid to ensure that any displaced Aboriginals are temporarily housed and fed until the floods recede and they can return home? 
My predecessor has provided the answer to the honourable member's question, as follows: 
No. 
Not at this stage. Material published about the Open University is being kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Existing Facilities 
Existing tertiary and technical education facilities in the Northern Territory are as set out in my predecessor's answer to Question No. 1423 (Mansard, 13th October 1970, page 2073). Enrolments in both sectors of education have increased. 
Proposed Facilities 
The Parliamentary Committee on Public Works has recently completed ils hearings of evidence relating to the building proposals lor the Darwin Community College and it will be reporting to Parliament shortly on [his. 
The Community College Planning Committee recently submitted its second report to my predecessor. This report deals with the government, organisation and staffing of the College. The recommendations in this report are still under consideration and  I  expect to be able to make an announcement about them in the near future. 
 The -answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average age of entry to all Australian universities based on age at 31st December of the preceding year, was 20.6 years in 1966 and 20.4 years in 1970. However, between these 2 dates the Commonwealth Statistician revised his definition of a new student. The figures given are not therefore wholly comparable. 
This information is not available as details of ages of new students are not currently collected from colleges of advanced education. 
and (4) lt is not passible to provide this information al present in the detail sought by the honourable member. 
Education: Secondary  Schools  Libraries  (Question No. 2890)  Mr Reynolds  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What amount of the $27,000,000 made available under the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1968 for the triennium ending 3 1st December 1971 has been (a) allocated to and (b) spent by each of the States in (i) government and (ii) non-government schools. 
Which schools have received grants, and what was the amount in each case. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
la) The amount allocated to each Slate for the triennium ending 31st December 1971, for expenditure in government and non-government schools respectively is: (l)(b) The amount spent by each Stale on its own schools under the Commonwealth Secondary Schools Libraries Programme, and paid by each State lo meet expenditure by non-government schools, from Commonwealth funds advanced for the purpose, is set out below for the period 1st 
January 1969 to 31st December 1970. The figures for some States are as yet subject to audit and the final figures could vary slightly. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth normally advances money to the private organisations responsible for the pre-school teachers' colleges, on the basis of progress reports on the construction of the approved project and estimated expenditure for the ensuing quarter. Procedures for land acquisition are, of course, different. 
The table below sets out the amounts already advanced to the approved organisations. 
Because of some of the difficulties met by some of the various organisations, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, in acquiring land in order to expand their teacher training facilities it will not be possible to advance all the money available before the end of the current triennium. 1 propose, therefore, to introduce legislation this session to extend the 'prescribed period' from 30th June 1971 to 30lh December 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Are matters which are predominantly administered by the relevant State authorities. Several Stales have attempted to control cropping rales by introducing licensing of shooters and kangaroo meat chillers. 
The method is reliable both as a research tool and for the continuous monitoring of kangaroo numbers. For the latter purpose, however, in a State management programme, it would be very expensive. 
In CSIRO, the method was used in a research programme to determine numbers and movements of kangaroos in specified areas in a variety of climatic regimes. The programme was terminated because its prime aim was achieved. 
While studies by CSIRO and other bodies showed that kangaroo numbers were severely depleted in parts of the area in question as a result of the combined effects of prolonged drought and expanded shooting, more recently there have been signs that kangaroos are increasing in number. The Inst meeting of the Australian Fauna Authorities' Conference, comprising representatives of State and Commonwealth fauna bodies, expressed its view that the exploited species, that is. the grey and red kangaroos, face no threat of extinction. 
No. 
 I present the report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on the Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia. 
by leave - Following discussions with the States late in 1968, the Commonwealth in April 1969 established an Advisory Committee on the Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures, with Professor J. J. Auchmuty, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Newcastle, as its chairman. The Committee was to make a comprehensive review of the current situation regarding the teaching of Asian languages and other aspects of Asian life and cultures in Australian schools and other educational institutions. This review was to include consideration of the factors that have tended to restrict the study of these subjects. The Committee was to report back to the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Education. 
The Advisory Committee submitted its report to my predecessor on 28th September 1970, and he sent copies to all the State Ministers for Education early in October. He suggested to the State Ministers that, after they and he had had an opportunity to study the report in detail, they might meet to discuss the Committee's findings and what might be done in the light of them. It is hoped that such a discussion might take place as soon as a mutually convenient time can be found. In the meantime, I have decided to release the Advisory Committee's report, so that there might be an opportunity for public discussion of it. This action is being taken after further discussion and with concurrence of the State Education Ministers. 
The nation wide survey on education needs was carried out by the Australian Education Council. This Council comprises 6 State Ministers. The Commonwealth Minister is not a member of the Council. Nevertheless the Commonwealth did provide certain information on an appraisal of the needs in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The survey by the 6 State Ministers was completed and, as the honourable member has said, the South Australian Government and the Western Australian Government have published the findings in their States. The other Premiers produced a precis, which has been released, but at present they are not inclined to release further details. These details were made available to the Commonwealth Government and on the strength of the details which were available to the Commonwealth before the last Premiers Conference, the Commonwealth did make available considerable additional general revenue grants. Undoubtedly this money will assist the States in carrying out the additional education expenditure which was shown to be necessary under this nation wide survey. 
The situation at the present moment is that the Commonwealth has written to the State Ministers for Education asking them to make available further details. These have been received. The last communication was received only a fortnight ago and  is  being processed by my department. 
At about the same time the former Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  wrote to the State Premiers requesting certain information and to the best of my knowledge this has not yet been received from all the Premiers. In addition the Commonwealth Government also pointed out that in order to have a complete survey of the nationwide needs in education it would be necessary to take into account the private nongovernmental schools, and the Commonwealth is undertaking this and is still awaiting certain information. I think it would be apparent to the Leader of the Opposition that at the present moment it would not be appropriate for this survey to be released before complete information and details have been received. The second point is that this is not a survey which was commissioned by the Commonwealth Government and its report is not a report which was made to the Commonwealth Government. Therefore, it is not for us but for the States to say what use is made of this report. 
I certainly agree with the honourable member that foot-rot is an extremely difficult and expensive disease in sheep. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has informed me that it believes that foot-rot is costing Australia about $16m annually and that it is virtually the last major contagious disease in sheep in Australia which could not be controlled by vaccine. I have always been extremely interested in the work being undertaken by the CSIRO in this field.  Dr Beveridge,  who was the first scientist in Australia to isolate the bacteria fusiform is nodosus which causes foot-rot, undertook this research work on my father's farm at Woomargama. This research has revolutionised the treatment of foot-rot. but unfortunately, because of the great difficulty associated with labour costs and the fact that one contagious carrier could lead to a breakdown, it was not really successful in eliminating foot-rot. 
Some 5 years ago the CSIRO set out to develop a vaccine. It has been extremely successful. The small field trials carried out have shown a virtual complete immunity for sheep that have been vaccinated twice. Unfortunately, the production of a commercial vaccine has been extremely difficult to achieve. Discussions have been held with the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, and drug businesses and laboratories in Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Everything that can possibly be done is being done. Special funds have been made available by the CSIRO, but it says that it is extremely difficult to produce a vaccine and a number of strains of this particular organism will have to be incorporated in that vaccine. I can assure the honourable member that the CSIRO is doing everything that it possibly can. It regards this as a matter of urgency. I am not hopeful that we will have a quick break through. The last annual report of the CSIRO said that it would probably be some 18 months before this vaccine was available commercially. 
I certainly recall the delightful few days that I had with the honourable member in his electorate. I do recall making some arrangements with the River Murray Commission to try to keep the water at a certain level during the breeding season of the ibis so as to encourage greater breeding. I am informed that there is a threat generally not only to the ibis but to alt water fowl in the Murray and Darling areas because of the greater control of flooding that has been exercised as a result of conservation. But there is no actual threat of extinction to the ibis. So far as the honourable member's question relates to the ibis eating large numbers of grasshoppers and other insects, it is undoubtedly true, but I am informed that there would be no possibility of controlling major plagues of grasshoppers however many ibis we had. It has been pointed out to me that it was estimated by the Division of Wildlife Research of the CSIRO that one plague covered an area of about 4 miles long by about 4 miles wide and that there were 50 grasshoppers per square foot in this area. It would be difficult, I am sure, for all the ibises in the world to consume this number. However, the Division of Wildlife Research of the CSIRO is not at the present moment undertaking any work on the ibis, but it has put out 2 excellent reports. I should be glad to make those available to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During April 1971. 
There is no suggestion that the implementation of the recommendations of the Interim Council will he deferred because of financial considerations, but Iiic rale of expenditure will be a budget matter. 
Education: Non-government Institutions  (Question No. 2276) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have interpreted the honourable member's question as a request for information about Commonwealth and Stale schemes of direct financial assistance lo non-government primary and secondary schools, as well as to residential colleges affiliated wilh universities and colleges of advanced education. 
There is a wide variety of indirect aid to nongovernment schools including such things as issue of road safety material, issue of the national Hag, transport concessions, etc. lt would not be possible, however, in many instances to separate the cost of supplying non-government schools from the cost of supplying other organisations and individuals included in a particular scheme. For example, road safety material is issued free to various bodies including both government and non-government schools. 
In its programme of assistance to universities and colleges of advanced education, the Commonwealth Government makes provision for the support on a capital and recurrent basis for residential colleges as follows: 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes an amendment to the principal Act - States Grants (Pre-school Teachers Colleges) Act 1968. This Act empowers the Government to make grants up to a total of $2.5m to the States for transmission to pre-school organisations in the States for approved capital projects including construction of buildings, purchase of equipment and land acquisition. The effect of the amendment will be to extend the prescribed period during which grants may be made. Under the Act the prescribed period is from December 1968 to 30th June 1971. The Bill seeks to extend this period to 31st December 1972. The reason for the extension is that 2 pre-school organisations listed in the Schedule to the Act could not begin before 30th June 1971 the proposed projects for which Commonwealth money was allocated. Two other projects are still  in  progress and will not be completed before that date. The completed projects under the Act are in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
The organisations responsible for the preschool teachers colleges in the States are private bodies. As such, several have encountered difficulties in acquiring the land needed to expand the teachers colleges and in meeting the planning and . land use requirements of local authorities. These difficulties are the major cause of the delays in certain States in carrying out the projects for which the funds were allocated in 1968. The extension proposed in this Bill will allow more time for the pre-school organisations to complete the negotiations and carry out their projects. In so doing the purpose of this programme will be achieved, that is, an approximate doubling of the capacity in Australia for the training of pre-school teachers. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion  by  Dr J.  F. Cairns-) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Government to extend the scheme of capital grants to the States for the construction and equipping, of technical training facilities. The grants, assist the States to provide buildings and equipment for the training of persons pursuing trade and certificate courses in technical colleges and trade schools and those undertaking similar courses at agricultural or rural training colleges. The funds are. allocated to the States in proportion to total State population. The grants have been made since July 1964 at a rate of $30m for a 3-year period or $ 1Om per annum. Over the period 1st July 1964 to= 30.th June 1971 a total of $70m will have been made available to the States with the result that there has been substantial improvement in technical training facilities iri the States. 
For the 3-year period commencing 1st July 1971 and ending 30th June 1974 the amount of money available will be increased from S30m to $36m and the annual amount available . will be increased from $10m to $12m. In determining this level of assistance the Government has taken into account likely increased pressures on technical training facilities arising from demands of such schemes as retraining of married women and retraining of farmers displaced under the rural reconstruction scheme and from the public service and industry for higher technician courses, which could have an effect on the programme of the States. I have already received general proposals from the State Ministers for Education for the use of S3 6m which the Bill proposes should be available over the next 3 financial years. 
In considering the proposals submitted by the State Ministers for inclusion in this extension of the scheme 1 have advised them that the Commonwealth regards its grants over the next 3 financial years as supplementary to the States' own efforts in providing adequate technical training facilities to meet the ever increasing demands for this field of training. 
The proposals for the new triennium put forward by the States are tentative at this stage. The States will be putting firm programmes for my approval before the new legislation becomes effective. My remarks following are aimed at giving honourable members an idea of the range of projects. In putting forward their programmes several States have indicated that these are part of co-ordinated programmes which embrace not only technical education facilities but also other educational institutions like Colleges of advanced education. New South Wales proposes to apply Commonwealth funds to the provision of facilities at Strathfield, Granville, Brookvale, North Sydney, Liverpool in the metropolitan area, and at Wollongong and Coifs Harbour. The building to be constructed at North Sydney is the direct result of demands from the Public Service and industry for specialised training in electronics. Construction and equipment programmes wilt also be continued under the scheme at various agricultural colleges. 

 Major projects proposed in Victoria reflect thinking on the reorganisation of technical training in that State and include the first stage of a new Melbourne Technical College to be developed over a period of 10 years, extensions to Geelong East Technical School and the Melbourne College of Textiles and new trade blocks at a number of metropolitan and country technical colleges. In Queensland, colleges proposed for assistance over the next 3 years include Rockhampton Technical College, Cairns Technical College and South Brisbane Technical College. Work will begin on the second stage at the sugar school at Mackay. Queensland has also put forward a proposal to establish a tropical rural school. 
South Australia plans to use Commonwealth financial assistance in the next triennium to build extensions at a number of technical colleges and to improve the equipment available to technical training.  Major additions  are proposed for Elizabeth Technical College, O'Halloran Hill Technical College, Croydon Park Technical College and Panorama Technical College. In Tasmania, expenditure is proposed for the completion stages of new technical colleges at Devonport and Burnie which have already started with Commonwealth funds. 
Honourable members will note the specific reference to residential accommodation in the Bill. The suggestion to include the specific reference arose during preliminary discussions with the States, lt will interest honourable members to know that one State has included a sum of more than 500,000 for the provision of residential accommodation primarily to meet the needs of apprentices living and working in country areas, and who by virtue of their location are at a disadvantage vis-a-vis apprentices in metropolitan areas when it comes to accessibility to technical training institutions. Apart from the needs of country apprentices f can see an advantage in the inclusion of residential accommodation at selected sites to meet other developments in apprenticeship training. I refer more particularly to the growth of block release as a method of training apprentices which requires full-time attendance at the training institution. As honourable members know a lack of suitable accommodation can cause many problems. 
The amounts available to the various States are set out in the schedule to the Bill. In proposing an extension for a further 3 years of technical training grants to the States, the Government has not overlooked the possible impact on expenditure during the triennium should the States put forward firm proposals as a result of consideration of the conclusions of the Australian tripartite mission to study methods of training of skilled workers in Europe. The report of the mission was released last year by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, and raised a wide range of issues related to industrial training. Discussions are currently taking place between the Commonwealth, the States, employers and trade unions on possible action to improve the training of skilled workers who form such an important part of the Australian workforce. Both the Minister for Labour and National Service and I are aware that proposals might flow from these discussions which would have implications for technical institutions under the control of the States. The proposed increased level of Commonwealth assistance for technical training reflects the Government's continuing interest in an area not covered by the recent Australia-wide survey of needs in the fields of primary, secondary and teacher education. 1 commend the Bill, which will have such an important effect on the training of skilled personnel in our country, to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr J.  F. Cairns) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The last of the State Ministers for Education replied lo ray predecessor's letter of 1 1th September 1970 on 17th March 1971. information from non-Government schools is still being collected and will he analysed wilh that information from Government schools. 
Education: Assistance to Private Schools in Bendigo Electorate (Question No. 2913) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Stales Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969 places on me an obligation to report annually and. in respect of each school involved, amounts paid out under this Act. 1 shall table this report, which will contain the information sought by ,he honourable member, as soon as practicable. 
In fact, this is a matter which comes directly under the portfolio of the Minister for Labour and National Service. My Department is represented on the interdepartmental committee which has met to consider this matter, but the fina] consideration has not come before Cabinet and I think it would be more appropriate if this question was answered by the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
Pursuant to section 6 (4.) of the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1969-1970, I present a statement of approvals given during 1970 and 1971 in respect of Commonwealth unmatched grant for acquisition of library materials in colleges of advanced education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth's position will be determined when it has considered all the material in respect of both Government and non-government schools. 
by leave - I am pleased to be in a position to inform honourable members that it is the Government's intention to introduce legislation into the Parliament later this year to provide for the extension for a further 3 years of the Commonwealth Secondary School Libraries Programme. The Commonwealth Libraries Programme, which will have provided a total of $27m for library facilities in Australian secondary schools between 1st January 1969 and 31st December 1971. Wl provide $30m over the 3 years beginning on 1st January 1972. This is an increase of $3m over the total amount available during the first 3 years of the Programme. In the 2 years of its existence so far. the Libraries Programme has been widely accepted as a valuable contribution to Australian education at the secondary level. Considerable progress has been mae to date but it is clear that an extension of the Programme is required in order to meet the further needs of schools in this field. 
We believe that the decision to extend the Programme, will allow the States and the non-government schools to engage in necessary forward planning, in the same way as has the recent announcement of the extension of the Commonwealth Technical Training Grants Programme and the earlier announcement of the Government's intention to extend the Secondary Schools Science Laboratories Programme when the present triennium finishes on 30th June 1971. The decision to continue these educational programmes is a clear indication of the Government's concern that Australian education should continueto develop to meet the growing needs and. expectations of the Community. As honourable members are aware, the Government is at present discussing with the States and with non-government schools the information obtained from the recent nation wide survey of needs in primary and secondary schools and in teacher education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Victoria Institute of Colleges is the statutory authority in Victoria charged with the balanced development of tertiary education other than that which is the responsibility of the universities. In discharging this function, it is the State authority responsible for co-ordinating proposals for Commonwealth contributions under the Advanced Education Program. 
Papua New Guinea: ILO Convention No. 84  (Question No. 2968) 
The Commonwealth Government is aware of the extreme problems facing people from rural areas who have to go away from home in order to complete their tertiary education. Because of this the Government has assisted them. The scholarships, of course, are awarded on merit but once a person obtains a scholarship he gets a living allowance. The allowance for a student living at home is $700 per annum whereas the living away from home allowance has recently been increased to $1,100 per annum. Although a means test applies in both cases, the living away from home allowance cuts out on an adjusted income of the parents of $7,360 whereas the allowance to a person living at home cuts out on an adjusted income of the parents of $6,026. I will check those figures but I think they are correct. Thus there is an advantage both in the means test and in the actual amount a scholar gets when he is living away from home. Nevertheless I certainly take to heart what the honourable member has said and I will get my Department to look into this matter. The Commonwealth is constantly reviewing its policies in this field and I will have a further look at this matter for him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the tables below. The tables are self-explanatory. There are, however, oneor two points I should like to make by way of explanation: 
Advances by the Commonwealth and expenditure by the States are not the same at any particular time. Advances are made by the Commonwealth against quarterly returns from the State. The quarterly return shows the amount spent to date on the project and estimated expenditure for the next quarter. 
State expenditure is eventually certified by the State Auditor-General. 
Large projects are not all completed in the triennium in which they were started. Projects carrying over into a second triennium are indicated in the tables. The amounts outstanding on such projects vary considerably. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate additional grants to meet the Commonwealth's contribution to the costs of the new levels of academic salaries in universities arising from the increase of 6 per cent awarded in the 1970 national wage case. The Government has decided to support the new levels of academic salaries and to contribute towards the cost its usual share of $1 for each $1.85 provided from fees plus State grants. The governing bodies of the universities are responsible for determining the actual levels of remuneration of their staff. The Bill provides that the Commonwealth will contribute towards new salaries for the senior academic staff up to the following levels and proportionately for the junior academic staff: 

<graphic href="072131197104293_35_4.jpg"></graphic>

In addition the Bill provides for a contribution towards the cost of the introduction of a scheme of external studies at the University of Tasmania for 1971 and 1972. The Commonwealth's share of the cost  -  $3,860  -  in respect of each of both years is included in Parts II and III of the 
First Schedule to be inserted in the principal Act as provided for in the Bill. It should be noted that after 1972, the University will bear the cost of the scheme from its general recurrent grants. The Government, with the agreement of the New South Wales Government, has also taken the opportunity to make two minor machinery amendments to the Second and Sixth Schedules to the Act to provide legal authority for a variation in the building programme of one university and one teaching hospital The variations, which have been requested by the universities concerned and which are supported by the Australian Universities Commission, do not increase the total capital grants provided in the current triennium. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1971-72, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Supply Bill (No. 2) 1971-72. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is shown in the following table: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is shown in the following table. The information provided relates to undergraduate courses. The relevant information for postgraduate courses is provided in my reply to Question No. 2423. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will recall that in July 1970, the Commonwealth decided that the report of the committee of experts which had recommended the establishment of a National Graduate School of Business Management in the University of New South Wales should be published. At the same time, the Commonwealth announced that, while accepting the recommendations of the report in principle, it would proceed to discussions with the business community concerning the proposed new school. 
My colleague, the then Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry, organised consultations with prominent and representative people engaged in business and industry. Those consultations are still proceeding. When they are 
I wish to answer the second part of the honourable member's question first: 
Australian universities themselves accord the title of doctor only to those who hold doctorates. 
No Australian university authorises persons not holding a doctorate to use the title of 'Doctor'. When such individuals use the title 'Doctor' they do so of their own initiative.. 
Yes, I have received a submission from the Australian Union of Students on Commonwealth scholarships. The submission has been sent to my Department, which is looking at it, and also to the Commonwealth Scholarships Board, which , has agreed to meet representatives of the Australian Union of Students later this month to discuss some aspects of the submission. However, I feel that some of the allegations made in the submission are misleading and others are inaccurate. The Commonwealth has done a lot to assist students by way of awarding scholarships. Since the Commonwealth scholarship scheme began I believe that a total of more than SI 55m has been expended on 133,000 Commonwealth tertiary scholarships. We are constantly examining scholarships and upgrading them. As I am sure all honourable members will realise, an increase was recently granted in the living away from home allowance. That allowance has increased from $1,000 to $1,100 per annum and the living at home allowance has increased from $620 to $700 per annum. In addition, the amount paid on average for student fees has increased from $408 to $450. There has been also an increase in the number of tertiary scholarships. I am sure the honourable member will realise that since 1965 the number of tertiary scholarships awarded by the Commonwealth has more than doubled. Of course, we are still looking at this. In fact, this year 65,000 students are receiving scholarships the. total cost of which is about $38m. So the Commonwealth is doing a vast amount in this field. 
Of course, it is not only Commonwealth scholarships which are available to students at universities; there are also State scholarships and bursaries as well as a number of other scholarships such as scholarships to Aboriginals and for teacher training in the Australian Capital Territory, and industrial scholarships. Many Commonwealth departments grant scholarships. For example, the Services grant scholarships in order to encourage the training of people who on completion of their courses will give a certain amount of time to the Services before they turn to private employment. It is not only scholarships which determine how many people go to universities. Certainly a scholarship makes it easier for a person to go to university and it does enable some to go who otherwise would not be able to go. But in the long run the number of people who can go to universities in Australia is determined by the bricks and mortar factor and by the availability of teachers. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Government is providing$27m for libraries for secondary schools during the three years 1969 to 1971. I have recently announced that the Government intends to introduce legislation into the Parliament later this year to extend the secondary schools libraries programme for a further three years from January 1972, and will make available $30m over this period. 
The Government recognises that libraries have a significant and necessary place in primary as well as secondary schools, but it has not been possible from available funds to assist the library needs of primary schools. The Government considers that in assisting secondary school libraries it is supporting the area of greater need requiring the greater expenditure per student. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1968, I present a statement describing the arrangements in accordance with which payments under this Act have been authorised in 1970. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: _ In replying to the honourable member's question I am assuming that the information he is seeking refers to the Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Awards Scheme. 
A student who wins a Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Award is paid a living allowance at the rate of $2,600 p.a. and where applicable a dependants allowance at the rate of $450 p.a. The student may. also receive reimbursement of up to $100 for the cost of thesis preparation, and certain travel and establishment expenses. These payments are made direct to the scholarship holder. In addition, a separate amount of $400 per scholar is paid to the university each year for the cost of tuition, research and similar facilities associated with the scholar's award. The precise use of the latter funds is decided upon by the universities. No part of the scholar's allowances are available to the universities for administrative purposes. 
At the beginning of 1969 a revised system of payments was introduced. Details of the amounts provided in 1971 are given in (1). For 1969 and 1970 the amounts were the same except that the living allowance was at the rate of $2,350 p.a. In 1968 payments by the Commonwealth were confined to $1,800 p.a. for a scholar's allowances and $500 p.a. for tuition, research and similar facilities. 
See answers to (1) above, 
As mentioned in (1) there already exists within the Scheme provision for award holders to receive reimbursment of up to $100 for the cost of thesis preparation. 
Commonwealth University Scholarships: Medical Students (Question  No. 3296)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What percentage of medical students (a) in first year and (b) in later years held Commonwealth University scholarships in the latest year for which statistics are available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics collected on university enrolments do not give the numbers of students enrolled in first year of courses but rather the numbers enrolled for the first time in particular courses. It is these latter figures which are used in providing an answer to part (a) of the honourable member's question. 
In 1969, 70 per cent of students enrolled for the first time in bachelor degree courses in Medicine held Commonwealth University scholarships. 
In 1969, 70 per -cent of all students enrolled in bachelor degree courses in Medicine, including courses leading to the degree of Science (Medicine), held Commonwealth University scholarships. The corresponding figure for 1970 was 74 per cent. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be  now  read  a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek authority for the Government to conduct and to bring to a conclusion over the next 4 financial years, from 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1975, its programme of grants for the construction and. equipping of science laboratories in secondary schools. 
The Commonwealth science facilities programme was first introduced in the 1964-65 financial year. By the end of the present 3-year period, on 30th June this year, some $80m will have been provided for government and non-government secondary schools in Australia. The expenditure of these funds has improved markedly the quality of the science teaching facilities available to students and has without doubt contributed to the improvement in the quality of the teaching of science subjects. As a result, young people leaving secondary school are better prepared in science than would otherwise have been the case. 
Most existing Australian secondary schools have already received some form of assistance, often substantial, from the funds, made available under the Commonwealth science facilities programme in the last 7 years. However, needs still exist. On present information, made available both by the States and the non-government schools, the Government believes that the purpose of its programme will be achieved by the expenditure of a further $43.295m. lt is the Government's intention to make this money available over a 4-year period. 
Expenditure under the programme in the present triennial period has been running at the rate of some $12.573m per annum. This is a substantial amount. The expenditure of $43. 295m over a 4-year period represents an annual expenditure rate of $10.83m. While this is- a reduced rate of expenditure as compared with that of the last few years the Government believes that it is a rate appropriate to the economic circumstances of the time and appropriate to the remaining needs of secondary schools. 
While the Government has been concerned to restrain public expenditure, it must be kept in mind that expenditure on this programme of unmatched capital assistance to schools should be considered in conjunction with 2 other Commonwealth programmes of unmatched grants, viz., those for technical training and secondary school libraries. The Government has recently announced increases totalling $3m per annum in the rate of expenditure under these 2 programmes. The programme for science laboratories has always been regarded as a finite one designed to overcome deficiencies, and the shifting emphasis in Commonwealth programmes reflects the success of the science facilities programme. 
Because we are reaching the end of the programme we are changing the method of allocation of the available funds. Until now, funds have been distributed on the basis of a formula which was based on secondary enrolments and State populations. For the remaining 4 years the method of distribution will take closer account of the actual needs of particular schools. 
The proportion of the total of $43.295m allocated to government schools will be the same proportion of the total as has applied during the triennium just ending. The amount to become available in this way to government schools will be $26.08 8m. This $26.088m will be divided between, the States in proportion to their secondary school enrolments. As at present, the States will determine how this money will be distributed between individual government schools. 

<graphic href="072131197105052_122_30.jpg"></graphic>

This Bill is in most respects broadly identical with the existing States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1968, but there are some additions to it. This Bill provides that the Minister will present each year to the Parliament a full report on the progress of the programme during the preceding year. He will provide the Parliament with the same information about the science facilities programme as' he does each year about the Commonwealth secondary schools libraries programme. The Bill gives the Governor-General authority to make regulations varying the amount payable to the States each year in respect of non-government secondary schools, by transferring funds from one category of 
The non-government schools will receive as their share of the $43 .295m available, a total of $17. 207m, which .reflects their assessed, actual needs. .The various State advisory committees of which there are two in each State, one for Roman Catholic and the, other for non-Roman Catholic schools, will continue to make recommendations, to, me concerning grants foi- the category of school for which they are responsible. Those committees will allocate priorities and recommend ,tq the Minister the timing of grants within total sums, which, reflect the .assessed needs of the schools which fall within, the ambit of their responsibilities. The distribution of the amount of $43. 295m available till 3.0th June 1975 is set out in the: Schedule to the Bill. The following table, which . with the concurrence of honourable' .members I incorporate in Hansard, . sets out the distribution of funds for each . category of school on an annual basis. 

<graphic href="072131197105052_122_30.jpg"></graphic>

non-government school  i  to another and from one State to another. 
The Bill also empowers the Minister to authorise payment to a State from funds appropriated under this; proposed legislation, after 30th June 1975, of amounts for expenditure incurred in ' respect of an approved project undertaken before that date. .This provision will, allow the Government flexibility as it brings the programme to a close. I take the opportunity to express thanks to the State governments which have carried out most adequately their own responsibilities under this pro* gramme for the past 7 years,, the members of the- Commonwealth Advisory Commit-, tee on Standards for Science Facilities in 

<graphic href="072131197105052_122_30.jpg"></graphic>

Independent Secondary Schools who have worked constantly and the members of the various State advisory committees. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The question now is: 'That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next sitting'. ' 
in reply - I intend to speak only very shortly. As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  stated, the Parliament was sitting until the early hours of this morning - until about 6.30- and I do not want to delay the House any more than is necessary. Also I do not think it is necessary for me to do so because the answers to the allegations made by the Opposition have already been given by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  The Opposition has suggested that there is inequality in the distribution of the money to be provided. Members of the Opposition seem to think that this is the only money available to government schools for science laboratories. This is not so at all, of course. State government schools- 
The honourable member has made his speech. If he does not mind I will make mine. State government schools shall receive about 70 per cent of the money that they use in science laboratories from the Commonwealth Government and about 30 per cent will come from their own funds. As everyone knows - this is a point that has been forgotten by the Opposition - the constitutional authority for education rests with the States. 
During the course of this debate we have had a wide ranging discussion of everything that is meant to be wrong with education in the States. First of all, that has little or nothing to do with this particular Bill, which is concerned only with science laboratories. Secondly, it is a matter which is the direct constitutional authority of the States. Honourable members opposite seem quite incapable of comprehending the fact that the States do have the authority in the education field and that what we seek to do is to assist them. We assist them, first of all, by seeing that they get as much in uncommitted funds as they possibly can and they can use these in whichever way they feel they can best be used. In fact they use a very large percentage of them in education. Secondly, we seek out areas in which we feel it is necessary to give additional assistance under section 96 grants, and this is one of them here of course. So the Opposition is quite wrong in saying that there is an inequality here. Of course, if one works out the actual figure that is being given to different schools under this Bill one will find that per capita more goes to the independent schools than to the State schools; but, as I have already pointed out, the State schools receive additional money. They have access to capital and they have access to these other recurrent funds. 
Certainly they had some. I was disappointed with the honourable member for Fremantle. I have heard him make some excellent speeches here, but unfortunately the speech that he made on this occasion represented a typical Socialist approach. I know that I should not expect anything else, but he used words such as the upper middle classes getting off with the loot. Quite frankly, I do not know what the upper middle class is and I would not think that anyone who had not studied Marx would really know what the upper middle class is. But it is terribly easy to use this old Aunt Sally of Geelong Grammar. I happen to be an old student of that school and proud to have been a student there. It is rather silly to make an Aunt Sally of it. But in fact there is no provision at all in this Bill for any funds for Geelong Grammar. However, it sounds very nice to be able to talk about this school as being for the rich. In fact a great many parents are sending their children to schools such as Geelong Grammar and other independent schools, but they have to make an extreme sacrifice, particularly at the present moment, in order to send them there, lt is interesting to see this reaction of the Opposition. There does seem to be an opinion amongst members of the Opposition that people who can afford to send their children to schools other than the State schools should not under any circumstances receive any grants at all. 
Why is it that schools such as Geelong Grammar are pointed out? Why does the honourable member talk about the upper middle class getting off with the loot and say that this Bill favours the affluent? That is the impression one gets from everything that has been said by the Opposition. I was glad that the honourable member for Fremantle did, at one stage in his speech, say that he does not believe in the DOGS. I am extremely glad to hear that. Neverthless the whole trend of the Labor Party thinking is a Socialist approach -that everyone ought to go to a government school and that everything should be given to a government school, or, if not everything, at least the majority should be. I would not have expected that the attack on this Bill would be on the division of funds. After all, let us look at the division of funds. They are exactly the same between government schools and non-government schools as they were in 1967. I have held this portfolio for only a short time. Nevertheless 1 am not aware that any member of the Opposition wrote to me and suggested that this formula should be changed. It may have happened in the time of my predecessor but certainly there has been no great pressure for this. Yet suddenly we are told that this is an incorrect division. 
But if honourable members opposite were going to attack this Bill I would have expected that it would have been an attack perhaps on the grounds that the funds made available were not as large as previously. Of course, I have explained in this Bill the reason for it. I have explained the fact, first of all, that there is an extremely inflationary pressure in the Commonwealth at the present time and that the Government is particularly anxious to see that it does not add to this inflation. Therefore it is reducing Commonwealth and State expenditure as far as possible. Secondly, this is a finite programme. When it was started off it was made clear that this was not a continuing programme. What we were seeking to do was to improve the quality of the science laboratories, and I believe that in the last 6 years there has been a dramatic improvement in the quality of science laboratories throughout Australia. Most existing Australian secondary schools have already received some form of assistance, often substantial, from the funds made available under this scheme. 
I do not want to go on, - I am sure you would rule me out of order if I did,  Mr Speaker  - to reply to some of the remarks that have been made about drop-out rates and various other matters which are important from an educational point of view but are not covered by this Bill. Let me just point out once again that the constitutional authority for education rests with the States. We seek, through science laboratories programmes such as this, through the libraries programme, through teacher training and through assistance in so many different ways, to assist the States, whilst leaving the States responsible for the quality of their education. They have the constitutional authority and that is where it rests, but I believe they are handling that authority well. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Beazley's amendment) stand part of ihe question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information in the form requested is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of retention rates were given in reply to a recent question (Hansard, 20th April 1971, page 1742). As the secondary schools statistics published by the Commonwealth Statistician which were used in that reply are not available separately for (i) city and (ii) rural areas it is not possible to provide retention rates on this basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). The subject of Commonwealth and State assistance for the education of students in special schools for the physically or mentally handicapped is an extremely complex one. Whilst it is possible to identify some direct grants or subsidies, others are not so easily identifiable. For example the Commonwealth, in its programme of per-capita grants to independent schools pays per capita grants to eligible institutions operated by voluntary organisations on the basis of $35 per primary pupil per annum and $50 per secondary pupil per annum, as it does to independent schools. But there are many other arrangements in the States and Commonwealth Territories which contribute to the support of handicapped students. Some of these take the form of special classes for the handicapped, training of more specialist teachers, subsidies to voluntary organisations to enable them to pay salaries of supervisors and subsidies for the construction of special centres. Naturally arrangements vary greatly from State to State. A brief summary of the facilities made available by the Commonwealth and State Governments and independent organisations for the education and training of mentally and physically handicapped children in Australia is contained in a bulletin prepared and issued by my Department entitled: 'The Education of Handicapped Children'. It is at present being updated and I will arrange for the honourable member to receive a copy of the new edition when it becomes available. 
The honourable member will also be aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare is currently taking evidence. There are several transcripts of evidence available dealing specifically with handicapped persons. Dates of these transcripts are: 26th October 1970, 24th November 1970, 25th November 1970, 26th November 1970, 26th January 1971. However, at this stage I am able to supply up to date details of existing arrangements for assisting both the intellectually handicapped and the physically handicapped in the Commonwealth Territories. These are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not have the necessary information to answer the honourable member's question. 
The grants made by the Commonwealth under the provisions of the States Grants (Teachers Colleges) Acts and the States Grants (Pre-school Teachers Colleges) Act are for capital works only. The Commonwealth does not contribute to the recurrent costs of the institutions built under these schemes. I suggest that it would be more appropriate for the honourable member to take the matter up with State Ministers for Education as far as teachers' .colleges are concerned and with the appropriate organisations in the States responsible for pre-school teachers' colleges. 
ILO Maritime Conventions (Question No. 3268) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information in the detail requested is not available but the annual reports of the State Ministers for Education do contain some information on the qualifications of teachers and I would also refer the honourable member to a report of a survey undertaken by the Australian College of Education in 1963. The report entitled Teachers in Australian Schools' was published by The Australian College of Education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Previous question 90 (Hansard, 20th May 1970, page 2486) 
The latest available information on the numbers and percentages of teachers who have resigned from Education Departments in each State is currently being collated and I shall provide this information to the honourable member in the near future. 
The number of full-time teachers employed by Education Departments in Government schools in each State are shown below: 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) The number of undergraduate students enrolled (including part-time students) in Australian universities was 99,127 in 1969 and 165,226 in 1970. 1971 statistics are not yet available. The figures for undergraduate enrolments include students studying for post-graduate diplomas and masters degree gualifying exams. 
The number of students enrolled (including part-time students) in advanced level courses at Colleges of Advanced Education, as published by the Commonwealth Statistician in the Quarterly Summary - of Australian Statistics. March Quarter 1971, were 30,713 in 1969 and 37,244 in 1970. Statistics for 1971 are not yet available. These statistics include a number of post- diploma students, separate details of which are not available. The enrolments in advanced level courses relate to enrolments in courses and parts of courses approved under the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act as well as to courses at the Canberra College of Advancel Education. In addition there are a number of students who are enrolled in those parts of courses at Colleges of Advanced Education which are not approved under the above Acts (mainly first year diploma enrolments in Victoria). These amounted to about 5,800 in 1970. 
(i) The number of scholars in training (including part-time) under the Commonwealth University Scholarship Scheme (at 30th June each year) was 27,320 in 1969 and 30,510 in 1970. Included in these figures are students enrolled in bachelor degree and diploma courses at Australian universities. 
The number of scholars in training under the Commonwealth Advanced Education Scholarship Scheme (at 30th June each year) at institutions classified as Colleges of Advanced Education was 2,446 in 1969 and 3,734 in 1970. These figures relate in the main to students enrolled in courses or parts of courses approved under the States Grants (Advanced Education) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The information 'requested is not available. This - kind of information would have to be obtained :  either1 from ' the records ' of the universities, col- -' leges 'df advanced education, etc. at which' the  students : enrol or by means of comprehensive sur- veys of school leavers. Statistics in this form have ' ; not been collected from these education institu-: lions '(apart ''from some small research studies for 1 particular institutions). A survey of school leavers :was carried ' out by  Dr W.  C. Radford of the Austraiian Council' for Educational Research in 1939-60 which obtained some of the information requested by the honourable member. The survey however ' 'only covered about - 80 per cent of ali school leavers and the coverage of those leaving from the highest forms was considered to be rather less than that. The survey results were published in a report entitled 'School Leavers in Australia, 1959-60' by W. C. Radford, published by the Australian Council for Educational Research. 
-- The. "answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: . 
My Department does1 not ' collect information which would enable me to answer part (a). The details requested in parts (b) and' (c) of the question are set out in the following table: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As explained in the answer to the previous question asked by the Honourable Member, the admin istration of education by the Commonwealth in the Northern Territory is shared by the Department of Education and Science and the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration. As before the answers to this question are shown separately In accordance with the responsibilities of each authority. 
Community Schools under the Control of the Department of Education and Science 
At the end of 1970 all teachers at Community Schools were employed by the South Australian Education Department and the statistics in the sections which follow have been compiled with the co-operation of that Department. 
(a) (b) (i) (ii) The following numbers of teachers (i) resigned (ii) took leave during 1970: 
The  answer  to the  honourable member's question is as  follows: 
It is assumed that the question refers to academic salaries only. 
(a) All States have advised that sufficient funds will be available to attract Commonwealth supplementary grants for academic salary increases in universities arising from the judgement in the 1970 National Wage Case. In compliance with that judgement, the increases are being paid from the commencement of the first pay period on or after 1st January 1971. The relevant commencement dates for payments are as follows: 
Yes, the honourable gentleman is right. A decision was made in October of last year as a result of a recommendation from the defence committee dealing with pay and conditions of service. lt was announced that there would be an increase in pay for certain senior Citizen - Military Forces officers. Unfortunately there was considerable difficulty in getting these regulations drafted, I understand, because of great pressure upon the parliamentary draftsmen. That position has been rectified. The regulations, were promulgated towards the end of July and the amount of payment can now be made, lt will be made next Friday. It was stated at the time the announcement was made that payment would be retrospective. It will be retrospective to 1st July 1969. 
by leave  -  I should like to amplify the brief reference made by the Treasurer to the increases in pay included in the Estimates in respect of other ranks of the armed Services. It should be realised that the increased expenditure provision does not merely connote a pay increase, but marks a major change in the philosophy and system of other ranks pay as recommended by the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service Employment. In accordance with the Government's policy of ensuring the justice and adequacy of financial and other conditions of service of the armed Services, this Committee was set up in October 1970 under the chairmanship of the Honourable  Mr Justice  John R. Kerr, C.M.G., a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, with other distinguished members having experience of the armed forces, conciliation and arbitration, commerce and industry and the Commonwealth Public Service. The Committee also has a senior serving officer from each of the armed Services attached to it in a consultative role. 
Under its terms of reference, the Kerr Committee is required to examine the principles for determining officers' pay, the practical working of the group pay system for other ranks, the nature and incidence of the demands and exigencies of Service life and various compensatory allowances. In relation to the matters before it, the Committee has sought and received the views of Service boards, relevant Commonwealth departments, serving servicemen of all ranks and other interested persons and organisations. It has also visited ships of the fleet at sea, Service establishments in Australia, bases in Singapore and Malaysia and operational units in South Vietnam to secure first-hand knowledge and experience of the wide variety of service employments and conditions of work, and life in the Services. Wide-ranging discussions of both a formal and informal nature have been a feature of the Committee's inquiries, and these are continuing. 
Quite early in its inquiries the Committee decided that it was necessary to give priority attention to the particular term of reference relating to the pay of other ranks in the Services and this approach was endorsed by the Minister for Defence. The outcome of this was report No. 1, entitled The Group Pay System', which was made available to honourable members and to the Press with the approval of the Government on 11th June 1971. A brief supplementary report No. 2 has since been submitted by the Committee on the same subject recommending amended pay rates in the light of certain changes in the pay rates of trades and associated staffs in the Commonwealth Public Service. These changes, which flowed from a consent determination issued by the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator on 8th July 1971 became effective after the date of submission of report No. 1 but were foreshadowed in that report, which requested that, if and when approved, these changes be referred back to the Committee for further consideration. This consideration resulted in further increases to all of the pay levels and the noncommissioned officer pay scales recommended in report No. 1. The Kerr Committee stated that it had considered and rejected the alternative of applying this increase only to those Service employments which have hitherto been aligned with the Commonwealth Public Service grades now granted an increase. Bearing in mind all the difficulties and anomalies which this process had generated in the past, the Committee stated that it proposed to adopt the course of placing new values on the pay levels established by report No. 1. 
The group pay system is based on the concept of aligning Service employments with civilian trades for pay purposes. Introduced originally with the Services pay code in 1947, the system was expanded to seven groups by the Allison Committee in 1958. A further review in 1968 greatly extended the number of groups and applied the system for the first time to the Navy. While it endorsed the concept of relating Service pay to equivalent civilian rates on a broad basis, the Kerr Committee found that the progression towards alignment of Service employments with a multitude of specific civilian trades, all undergoing pay changes in an uncoordinated way, was disruptive and counterproductive so far as Service pay satisfaction was concerned. The Committee criticised the pay turbulence within the Services resulting from the constant variation of outside awards with which Service employments are aligned, the constant and irritating changes in pay relativities between different Service employments due to the erratic influence of independent civilian award movements, the lengthy delays in the system, the inconsistencies which resulted from using a variety of Federal, State and Commonwealth Public Service awards as alignments points, and the anomalies and inadequacies in the pay margins allowed for senior NCO ranks. 
The Committee concluded that an extensive change was necessary and recommended the immediate introduction of a new pay system based on an 'industry' approach in which Service employments up to corporal level will no longer be aligned with a multiplicity of individual civilian trades but will form a co-ordinated pattern, divided into six broad pay levels. Stable internal relativities will be established and broad alignment maintained with general wage levels in outside industry and the Commonwealth Public Service. In relation to the ranks from sergeant to warrant officer class 1, the Committee recommended a structure designed to systematise and improve NCO pay margins, thus recognising the added responsibility which comes with increasing rank. Associated with this is a basic change in concept under which sergeant, staff sergeant and warrant officer rank will receive a uniform incremental scale of pay instead of group pay. Above the rank of corporal and its equivalent, no differential will be included for trade skill, the emphasis being placed on the common responsibility for supervision and management. 
Additionally, the Committee emphasised its strong view that proper pay relativities in respect of Service employment can only be determined ultimately by a systematic work value study and went on to recommend that an intensive work value examination be undertake. 
Because the Committee recommendations involve a concept of Service pay which is significantly different from that which currently applies to other ranks pay, all members will not receive the same percentage increase in pay. Some members will inevitably benefit more than others from the broad-banding process whereby a large number of pay groups were translated into 6 pay levels. In other cases, certain members will benefit from the application of market rates, while other members have already received this benefit. The largest increases will be given to warrant officers and senior NCOs in conformity with the concept of recognising the responsibilities of rank. Although the final rates for these ranks will be uniform, the increases cannot be uniform as NCOs currently receive differing rates of pay according to their respective trade skills. However, the introduction of the new system will bring pay increases to most other rank members of Australia's armed forces. The Committee clearly indicated that the pay rates which it had recommended for the various pay levels had regard to the rates paid by the Commonwealth Public Service for relevant trade and technical skills in various forms of Crown employment. This is not to say that individual Service employments are equated with specific trades in the Public Service. The Committee commented that it had in mind that members of the armed services are employed by the Crown, and that it seemed to the Committee entirely sensible that there should be, in general, equality of financial terms and conditions of employment between members of the armed forces and Commonwealth employees. In reaching its recommendations the Kerr Committee concluded that the special service allowance of $146 a year which was introduced by the Government in 1964 as an incentive to recruitment and re-engagement, was an over award payment appropriate to the period when service pay rates were related primarily to minimum award rates rather than market rates. With the new concept now being introduced, the Committee recommended that it should be consolidated in the rates of pay instead of remaining as a separate allowance. 
The Committee of Inquiry gave particular attention to the pay of servicewomen. Servicewomen do not receive the special service allowance, so that the consolidation of this allowance into pay will eliminate this difference between male and female rates of pay. At the private level, servicewomen will now receive 95 per cent of male rates, as in the general community, progressing to 100 per cent on 1st January 1972. Above the private level, rank margins for servicewomen are assessed on the basis of the difference in responsibilities compared with those of equivalent male ranks. The Committee observed that analysis of comparative responsibilities was a matter for the full work value inquiry but in the meantime, it recommended that the rank margin for servicewomen be raised to 80 per cent of the male margin. The Government accepted these recommendations and agreed that servicewomen's rates of pay should be reviewed during the work value examination. 
The Kerr Committee was not required by its terms of reference to deal with the pay of citizen forces and therefore made no recommendation in this regard. However, in conformity with past practice and the Government's desire to lend every encouragement to the citizen forces, it has decided to apply the increased pay levels to other ranks in the citizen forces using appropriate comparative levels of skill. 
The Committee considered that early commencement of a work value study of Service employments was essential and offered to undertake this task, emphasising the extent of its accumulated knowledge on the subject, and the interaction with some of the remaining terms of reference yet to be dealt with by the Committee. The Government has agreed that this task should be undertaken by the Committee. In developing its concept of an industrytype approach to Service pay the Committee emphasised the need for periodic systematic, review of pay rates in lieu of the present system of numerous uncoordinated adjustments resulting from individual trade links with outside industrial awards. The Committee suggested that these reviews might not be limited to fixed intervals but made as necessary to maintain comparative wage justice in the light of general wage movements in the community. Initially, such reviews will be associated with the studies being carried out by the Committee of Inquiry while it continues in being. The Government will later announce what machinery of review will be established after the Committee completes its assignment. 
The Government has decided that the new pay scales will become effective forthwith from the commencement of the next pay period which is 26th August 1971 foi the RAAF and 27th August 1971 for Army and Navy. It will not be possible of course to effect payment immediately. This is not merely a pay increase but a major change in the structure of Service pay, which will require extensive amendment of Service pay regulations. This is a complicated process which experience has shown will take up to 3 months. Efforts are being made to shorten this process as far as possible. When made, payment will be retrospective to the dates I have indicated. 
All of the recommendations contained in the No. 1 report of the Kerr Committee as amended by the No. 2 report have been accepted by the Government. The Government had the benefit of the views of the Services and its defence advisers and all supported the changes now introduced. The proposed daily rates of active pay for male and female other ranks as recommended in report No. 2 of the Kerr Committee are contained in the attached schedules, which with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="073131197108174_142_68.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073131197108174_142_69.jpg"></graphic>

For the convenience of honourable members, I have summarised the new rates of active pay on an annual basis. Recruits will receive $2,358. Privates and their equivalents in the Navy and RAAF will receive from $2,445 to $4,036 depending on the pay level to which their particular skill assigns them. Lance-corporals will receive from $2,565 to $4,157. Corporals will receive from $2,774 to $4,361. Sergeants will receive from $3,022 to $4,934 depending on their starting point on promotion or translation to the rank, and then on years of service in the rank. Staff Sergeants will receive from $4,934 to $6,234. Warrant Officers class 2 from $5,909 to $6,234, and Warrant Officers class 1 from $6,584 to $6,935. In general these are the rates applicable to single men living in service quarters. Married men receive further allowances totalling $712 per annum, and in addition all members receive uniform allowance, free medical and dental attention and other benefits. The total cost of the approved increases including those for the citizen forces, in a full year will be approximately $34m. The cost for 1971-72 will be a little over $29m. 
As I have indicated, the reports on group pay are only the first, though a very important stage in the Kerr Committee inquiry. Work is proceeding on the other terms of reference, including the principles and levels which should apply to officers pay, and the demands and exigencies of Service life, together with some special references on certain allowances, such as education allowance and temporary rental allowance. To these items will now be added the very important task of directing the work value examination which the Committee sees as the only satisfactory basis for determination of Service pay relativities. 
Finally, I should like to take this opportunity of commending the excellent work which  Mr Justice  Kerr and his Committee have carried out to the present time. The unqualified acceptance by the Government of all the recommendations made by the Committee in relation to other ranks pay is a demonstration both of confidence in the Committee and the Government's determinnation to provide financial and other conditions of service sufficient to attract and retain men and women with the needed qualities, skills and experience for the Australian Forces. I present the following paper: 
Pay Increases for Other Ranks of the Armed Services - Ministerial Statement, 17th August 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his reply of 5th May 1970 to the honourable member's question without notice about the possibility of the establishment of a university at Albury-Wodonga as a joint venture by the Governments of Victoria and New South Wales, my predecessor stated that he knew of no recent consultation between the two State Governments on this matter. My further enquiry has confirmed that advice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The details which follow have been derived from information supplied to me by my colleague the Minister for the Interior as well as from the resources of my own Department. 
The estimated number of children of school age living in the Northern Territory (at least 5 years and under 16 years) are: 
Aboriginal: 5,496 (Northern Territory Administration estimate at 16th April 1971) 
Other: 12,654 (Department of the Interior estimate as at 31st March 1971) 
(a) and (b), (i) and (ii), (A) and (B) The following tables show enrolments in Northern Territory Community Schools operated by my Department and enrolments in ' schools operated by the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration. 
 The following answer is provided: 
The answer to this part of the honourable member's question is contained in the following table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The honourable member will be aware that the House has appointed a select committee to inquire into and report upon a number of matters relating to the conservation of wildlife including the need for a Commonwealth Wildlife Conservation Authority. 
Without prejudicing the' findings of the Committee, it is possible that such an Authority could be established. If such an Authority were set tip, it may well be able to examine any problems relating to interstate trade in protected fauna with a view to establishing Suitable controls. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question. is as follows: 
The' information given below has been divided into two sections, namely programs of assistance which are administered by . the Department of Education and Science and' assistance provided by Department of the Interior. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, various joint activities have been ini tiated in a number of scientific fields including arid land research, atmospheric sciences and research on photosynthesis in plants. 
None of the joint activities initialed to date under the Agreement has been established specifically or principally to study problems of the environment. However, some joint activities that have been established in three scientific fields are relevant to acquiring a belter understanding of aspects of the environment and of environmental management. The principal relevant activities are as follows: 
Arid Land Research 
A joint seminar-workshop between Australia and United States scientists was held in California in March/April 1971 on the topic 'Plant Morphogenesis as the Basis for Scientific Management of Range Resources'. The aim was to evaluate existing scientific knowledge in both countries on this topic and to extract principles which can be applied to practical management situations. 
Atmospheric Sciences 'Research 
Three Australian scientists from the Department of Supply . and the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology visited the United State in September/October 1969 to work with United States scientists on measuring the structure of the lower atmosphere using ground-based acoustic sounding equipment developed by the Australian Department of Supply. This equipment utilises the response of sound waves to turbulence and temperature fluctuations in the atmosphere, and it has potential practical application in such fields as monitoring conditions conducive to air pollution buildup. 
In another project, balloons designed to float for long periods in the upper atmosphere were released from Darwin by United States scientists in February/March 1971 to obtain information about high level wind flows in the equatorial region. Australian scientists collaborated in the work which was designed to increasethe existing knowledge of global weather patterns and wind flows. These factors play a key role in air pollution buildup in many regions of the world. 
Research on Photosynthesis in Plants 
Australian and United States scientists have played leading roles in the discovery of new knowledge about photosynthetic processes in certain types of plants (e.g. sugar cane) which make unusually efficient use in their growth processes of the solar energy falling on them. This new knowledge could lead to important practical applications in tropical zone agriculture. 
A joint seminar between leading research scientists from the two countries in this field was held in Australia in November/ December 1970 to facilitate the exchange of research results and to identify areas in which research might prove fruitful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In the text of Professor Goldman's speech made available to me, he includes the figures $40m and $20m quoted by the honourable member, lt is not clear, however, whether Professor Goldman is quoting annual or overall costs, whether they are additional to present costs to the Australian taxpayer, or whether the costs include capital as well as recurrent expenditure and the additional cost of teacher training. 
As my predecessor stated in answer to a previous question by the honourable member (Hansard 25th September 1970, page 1756), it is not realistic to attempt to estimate the cost of providing pre-school education over the whole of Australia on the basis described by the honourable member. There are basic differences between the Australian Capital Territory and other areas in many of the factors which affect costs in the provision of pre-school education, such as the geographic spread of the pre-school aged population, the size of the pre-school centres which would be required, cost of acquisition and development of sites for centres, building costs, attendance patterns and salary levels. Estimates based on applying figures appropriate under one set of conditions to areas where conditions differ so substantially could not held but be misleading. For these reasons, and because the basis of Professor Goldman's estimates is not stated, 1 am unable to comment on them. 
The answer to the honour* able member's question is as follows: 
-*-The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
Separate details of benefits for Commonwealth scholarships awarded at the beginning of each year are not maintained. The total expenditure on Commonwealth Secondary scholarship benefits in 1970 was $6,329,874. 
The earliest period for which details of expenditure are available in respect of scholarship holders attending each group of schools is 1970- 71. Expenditure on Commonwealth Secondary scholarship benefits in this period was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Records of expenditure within the Department are not maintained in sufficient detail to enable the costs of administering individual Commonwealth scholarship schemes to be provided. 
We have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  make many inaccurate statements in this House before, but I have never heard him make quite as many inaccurate statements in such a short time as he has made in this evening's statement. I tried to write them down. I found that it was quite impossible to keep up with the number of inaccurate statements that were made. He talked about the failure of the war. If the war had been a failure, surely the North Vietnamese would have been occupying South Vietnam. He talked about the United States of America being forced to withdraw from Vietnam. . The United States is not being forced to withdraw. It is able to withdraw because of the enormous strides that have been made in Vietnamisation, in improving conditions and in improving the military situation. He said that we are getting out of Vietnam because the United Staler is getting out. That is another completely inaccurate statement. We are getting out because the Government of Australia and the Government of South Vietnam have decided that there is no need for us to remain there further because the province which we have been looking after is in a very secure state. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that there had never been a request to Australia for military assistance under the South East Asia Collective Defence Treaty. Of course this is wrong. It was under the general umbrella of SEATO that we were required to come to the aid of a protocol State, and we know that South Vietnam is a proposed State. He said that the situation in South Vietnam had deteriorated enormously since 1954. Obviously the Leader of the Opposition did not listen to the statement that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  before he read his prepared speech. The Prime Minister pointed out the situation which existed in South Vietnam at the time that we made our decision to go in. Only this afternoon my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  pointed out that the situation was studied extremely closely before we made this decision. 
Let us look at the situation which existed at the time. There was an enormous buildup in South Vietnam of both Vietcong and North Vietnamese troops. 
There was the situation which existed in China - a more militant China - at that time. China had only recently gone into Tibet and had gone to war with India. China was also helping the North Vietnamese in the war against South Vietnam. There was the infiltration of Laos and Cambodia by the North Vietnamese. There was insurgency on the borders of Thailand. There was the Indonesian confrontation. That was the situation at the time. Naturally any government would have been extremely concerned. We were concerned because we knew that if South Vietnam fell there was every possibility that we would see in operation what has been referred to as the domino theory - a theory which is certainly accepted by every one of the smaller countries in South East Asia. They knew that if South Vietnam, the strongest of all of those countries, were to fall Laos and Cambodia could not possibly resist nor could Malaya hold out. There would have been a complete occupation of this whole area. The Government was confronted with this situation. 
It would have been absolutely disastrous if there had not been some support for the South Vietnamese. I do not think that there is one person in the House tonight who believes that without our aid - when I talk of our aid I mean American aid as well as Australian aid - South Vietnam would not have been overrun. There is no doubt whatsoever that South Vietnam would have been overrun. There may be people in this chamber who would have liked to see that occur, but we certainly did not. We knew it was certain that without American aid South Vietnam would have been overrun. 
Does the honourable member not believe that South Vietnam would have been overrun? Would the honourable member like to see a Communist state in South Vietnam and the probability of other Communist states in South East Asia? Without American and Australian aid this would have happened. Admittedly Australia's aid comprised only a small proportion of the aid given. Nevertheless we supported the Americans. There is no doubt whatsoever that without the assistance of the allies South Vietnam would have been overrun and would have become a Communist state. There would have been an  enormous  number of people slaughtered.  Sir Robert  Thompson, who was an adviser to the British Army and who is now an adviser to  President  Nixon, has said that he believes that something like a million South Vietnamese would have been slaughtered if the North Vietnamese had overrun the South. Should we have ignored this possibility? Should we have stood by and said: 'We are very sorry, but we do not believe in war'? All that the people of South Vietnam wanted to do was to be able to run their own affairs free from external aggression. This is now happening. 
The Leader of the Opposition asked why we went in and why we are now withdrawing. The reason why we are now withdrawing is perfectly straightforward. Anyone can see it. There has been a remarkable improvement in the military situation in Vietnam. I know this because I was in South Vietnam less than 6 months ago. I was fortunate enough to go on a trip with  President  Thieu into the Mekong Delta area. 
It would have been most unsafe 2 years ago to travel in this area but it is safe now. I was with a number of members of the Asian Parliamentary Union who went with  President  Thieu to 3 of the larger towns and cities in the Mekong Delta area. The  President  walked down the main street shaking hands with people and was welcomed by them. He addressed a large meeting. There was no apparent concern of any sort in this area which, as I have said, was overrun 2 years ago by the Vietcong. This has been a remarkable achievement. Look at the way in which the defence forces have been built up by the South Vietnamese. We think that we are expending quite a lot of money on defence in this country and we are. The sum of $l,252m has been set aside for this purpose this financial year. Our nation is not very much smaller than South Vietnam but, whereas we have 86,000 regular troops under arms, the South Vietnamese have 1,221,000 which is a remarkable effort for any country. Whilst this number is directly under arms full time there are, of course, other organisations - the home defence forces for example - which are not under arms full time but are still armed. That is why we will be able to get out. 
Remarkable achievements have taken place everywhere in South Vietnam and not only on the military front. I think the achievements have probably been as great as anywhere on the agricultural front. There has been an improvement in cropping. I was shown rice crops which produced 10 times the amount which previous crops used to produce. There has been a handing over to the peasants of the title to the land they farm. I was present at one of these ceremonies and took part in it. In the old days the South Vietnamese did not own their own lands; the French owned them. Now some 800,000 of them own about 3i million acres. This is all a part of the programme of classification and development. I was present when Thieu decorated a former Vietcong. He said to me afterwards that South Vietnam has an open arms programme under which any Vietcong who lays down his arms and joins the South Vietnamese will be given amnesty.  President  Thieu told me that 170,000 ex-Vietcong have now laid down their arms and are now working peacefully with the South Vietnamese. No-one who went up there could fail to see the enormous improvements that have occurred. That is the reason why we will be able to get out. The present situation has been brought about for a number of reasons. It has been brought about because of the capture of Kompong Som in the Khmer Republic. Enormous quantities of supplies were being brought in at this port and ferried right up to the South Vietnam border. These supplies were kept in an area where the South Vietnamese could not touch them. That situation has completely changed now. Kompong Som has been taken. The only way in which anything can come down from North Vietnam is along the Ho Chi Minh trail. Everybody would know that it is extremely difficult to stop supplies coming in along this trail because it is not in fact one trail but many trails and if one trail is bombed the North Vietnamese just move around and bypass it in another area. Nevertheless there has been a considerable reduction in the amount of equipment coming, along this trail. The reduction has been due mainly to the use of helicopter gunships by the Americans. As a result of the expedition into the area- of southern Laos which is commonly called Lam Son 719, there .has been a considerable reduction in the stores available. It is true that the South Vietnamese paid quite a heavy price as a result of this expedition or operation, but the North Vietnamese not only paid a much heavier price but also lost an enormous quantity of supplies. They are now feeling the effect of this loss. That is another reason why we will be able to get out. It is not just a matter of saying that we can go because the Americans are going. The fact of the matter is South Vietnam has never been in a better situation in the last 10 years than it is in today. 
This does not suit the honourable member's ideology. He does not want the South Vietnamese to have control of their own country. 
Well, who is running for  President  or for that matter, for VicePresident in North Vietnam? Can honourable members opposite who are trying to interject tell me of anyone who is standing? I have been in South Vietnam. I have met the elders of the hamlets and talked to them. One of them had been elected for the second time. A lot of them had been elected. There have been elections and elections will be held fairly shortly. We are able to withdraw our forces because of this enormous improvement in the situation. The Prime Minister has announced also that we are able to make a small reduction in the total strength of the Australian Army. We are going to do this by reducing the length of the period served by national servicemen from 24 months to 18 months. 
The Leader of the Opposition in his usual flamboyant style says that we should be able to get all the volunteers that we want; all that we have to do is pay them more and they will all flock in. I challenge him to say what should be done because I think in Australia we have done as much as any country to see that recruits are attracted to the Services by good pay and by good conditions. It is interesting to note that in this respect we are sometimes compared with the United States of America and yet, in spite of the enormous wealth of the United States, the Australian serviceman is in a much better position vis a vis his civilian counterpart than is the case in the United States. 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the Gates Commission. It is true that the Gates Commission said that it would be of advantage to have an all-volunteer Army in the United States. But this has not been accepted. The United States knows that the only way it can have an all-volunteer Army is to reduce the numbers to such an extent that only volunteers are left. In that event, the Army would be reduced to between one-half and two-thirds of its present strength. But in any case the United States  President  has made it clear in a statement which he made on 28th January that the draft is not to be abolished and that the necessary legislation for the draft will be retained. 
We have done an enormous amount for the Services and I am sorry that I cannot detail it. The fact of the matter is that last night I made a statement awarding $35m a year extra for service pay. Over the last 4 years $24m has been spent on accommodation; we have built 21,700 houses; and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is being investigated. We are doing and will continue to do everything that we can to attract further people into the Services but we will still have to retain national service. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect of the answer to question No. 748 (Hansard, 28th November 1968. page 3492). updated information is as follows: 
(2) and (4) Pre-school centres for which my Department is responsible have been established at the following places in the Northern Territory. The number of Aboriginal, part Aboriginal and other' children attending these Community Preschool centres as at 26th February 1971 was as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Selection for Technical scholarships available to students entering approved courses is made on the basis of results obtained by applicants in one of the following: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 57 Aboriginal and 75 other Australian children living in the Jervis Bay and Wreck Bay areas of the ACT. The figures include children between 5 and 15 years of age and those over 15 years still attending school. 
Numbers of school age children living in Jervis Bay and Wreck Bay attending primary or secondary school. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 7 of the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969, I present a statement of payments made to independent schools in each State for the year ended 31st December 1970. 
 I move: 
Thai the Bil be now read u second lime. 
The main purpose of the Bill before the House is to appropriate additional grants in order that the Commonwealth might meet its share of the cost of the new levels of academic salaries in colleges of advanced education under the accepted matching formula. The need to provide these supplementary grants has arisen from the salary increases awarded in the 1 970 national wage case. The opportunity is also taken to incorporate in the Bill some minor machinery provisions which bring up to date the recurrent grants schedule in the light of certain reallocations of funds which have been approved at the request of the States, to make similar adjustments in the capital programme for 1970-72, and to take into account changes in the name of some institutions. 
The Commonwealth has accepted the principle that it should provide its share of increases in approved academic salaries. For 3 colleges of advanced education in New South Wales the Bill also provides for matching recurrent grants to the States for approved academic salary increases other than those flowing from the national wage case. One State, Tasmania, has advised that no additional grant will be required to finance the cost of increases in academic salaries in its college of advanced education as this may be met by savings effected elsewhere within the current triennial programme. 
The total additional cost to the Commonwealth in the current 1970-72 triennium of all increases in academic salaries provided for in the Bill will be $1,060,140. The cost in the financial year 1971-72 will be $794,000. The principal Act contains provision for the transfer, on request from a State, of recurrent funds between colleges and between years of the triennium. This affects only the distribution of grants and not the total level of grants available to a State. Two States - Victoria and Queens land - have made use of this provision and the new Schedule in the Bill has been updated in respect of transfers of recurrent funds that have been approved. The Second Schedule to the Bill effects minor adjustments to the capital programme for 1970-72 for a small number of colleges in several States. These adjustments are being made at the request of the States concerned; they do not increase the total capital grants provided in the current triennium. 
The Bill also provides for the up-dating of the names of certain institutions. The new names of these institutions are incorporated in the First and Second Schedules and are specified separately in the Third Schedule. Honourable members will recall that in the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  mentioned the willingness of the Government to join with the States in providing further supplementary grants to colleges of advanced education in recognition of exceptional increases which have occurred in non-academic salaries. This matter is under discussion with the States and when details have been agreed the Parliament will be invited to approve further supplementary provisions. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to provide costs for the very wide range of activities  that  may  be classified as  having some public relations content or purpose. The amounts spent on salaries and allowances of full-time public relations staffs, both Service and civilian, and on activities directly attributable to the functions of these staffs are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Provision of Houses under the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement (CSHA). State Housing authorities may not build houses on Service establishments where the land is owned by the Commonwealth. In such cases, houses are built and owned by the Defence Services. Other houses for servicemen are provided under the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement in areas which are described in the Housing Agreement Act 1966 as 'usual residential localities'. In some cases these CSHA houses are adjacent to the Service complex at which the personnel are employed, and in other cases they may be some miles distant. The places where houses are provided for Service personnel are listed in column 1 of Annex A. 
Accommodation of Servicemen in CSHA Houses - 
The number of servicemen, by localities, who occupied houses provided under the CSHA on 30th April 1971, are listed in column 2 of Annex A. The total numbers, by Services, are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) Available statistics of teachers employed in pre-school training relate to the staffing of government centres, and centres run by organisations affiliated to the Australian Pre-School Association. Staff employed as teachers at these centres are normally employed under the conditions of various State awards for kindergarten and preschool teachers which, require the possession of certain teaching qualifications. These include Kindergarten Teaching - College diplomas as well as infants or primary teaching qualifications and equivalent overseas teaching qualifications. Unqualified staff are employed as pre-school assistants who are not engaged in teaching duties. 
On this basis all staff who are employed specifically as teachers have some form of teaching qualification, although these qualifications may not necessarily be specifically in relation to the teaching of pre-school aged children. The following table shows, for 1968 and 1969, the numbers and types of qualifications of teachers at government and affiliated pre-school centres (information is not presently available for the other years sought). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) With the exception of some material collected in my Department as a result of the introduction of the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme, information needed to provide an answer to the honourable member's question is not available to me. 
In 1969 the Government introduced the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme in order to provide assistance to persons of Aboriginal descent to undertake courses of study after leaving school. A number of persons taking up these grants have applied them to tertiary courses. The numbers of persons who took up Study Grants for the first time in 1969 and 1970 in courses which are wholly or principally at tertiary level are set out below. Complete information for 1971 is not yet available. Because the Grants are available to students who have already enrolled in courses as well as to those about to commence studies, a small number of the students noted here may have started courses prior to their receiving a grant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From the time Australian personnel were first posted to" Vietnam up to 30th June 1970 an amount of $163.1 19m on action by all arms of the Services has been incurred by the Australian Forces. This - amount represents the excess over normal costs in Australia of the Services. 
The dissection between the Services of the amount of $163. 119m is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows - 
My Department .has sought the co-operation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics in order to supply to the honourable member as much information as possible. My understanding of the present position is that some material has been obtained from universities and other sources but it has not yet been possible to complete the processing and tabulation of the data which is necessary to present it in a useful form. 
When the necessary tabulated information is to hand I will write to the honourable member and supply to him whatever information it has been possible to compile. 
In the meantime the honourable member may wish to refer to the information on quotas in 1970 given by my predecessor to the Leader of the Opposition in the answers to Question No. 1344 (Hansard 24th September 1970, p1693) and Question No. 1346 (Hansard 25th September 1970, p1742) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows - 
This question poses problems similar to those dealt with in my reply to Question No. 3394 and I draw the Honourable Member's attention to that reply. 
I will write to the honourable member when I am in a position to supply him with whatever information it has been possible to compile. 
1 have not yet had an opportunity to look into this matter but 
I can assure the honourable gentleman that the document referred to in the first part of his question is on my desk at present. I am not certain of the position concerning  Sir Frederick  Shedden's memoirs. I will have to check with my Department and let the honourable member know. 
This matter is under consideration at the present moment. However, the Prime Minister recently made  a  statement in which he said that no early decision on this matter would be taken. 
I will check on this figure, but it is certainly my understanding that the figure took into account the fact that the troops would be withdrawn, as has been announced by the Government already. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The situation is that under the agreement between  Mr Laird  and the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the Government has until approximately the end of this year to make a decision on whether or no it will accept the Fill. Some few weeks ago Air ViceMarshal Hey, Air Member for Technical Services, went to the United States of America. He has produced a report which is now being studied by my colleague the Minister for Air, and which will be passed on to me shortly. 1 will be having discussions with Cabinet on this matter at a later stage. 
 A considerable amount of work has been undertaken on the proposed legislation for a disciplinary code for the Services. However, there are still a number of major policy decisions which will have to be made. I am hoping fairly shortly - in the next week or so - to meet the Service Ministers and have some preliminary discussions. A number of policy decisions will have to be made and the one on the death penalty, which the honourable member has mentioned, is obviously one decision which will have to be made by the Government. After this decision has been made, of course, the legislation will be introduced into this House and honourable members will be able to debate it and vote upon it. I am hopeful that this will be possible during this sessional period. Perhaps the debate can be postponed until after honourable members have had an opportunity to look closely at the proposed legislation. But this does depend on how successful we are in overcoming a number of policy problems which still lie in this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The result of negotiations with Victorian authorities is that personnel living in married quarters, at Puckapunyal are not entitled to subsidised assistance from the Home Help Service because local rates are not paid in respect of these quarters. 
The question of assistance from alternative sources is being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following consolidated statement includes expenditure incurred in recruiting advertising and administrative expenses associated with operation of Recruiting Centres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The arrangements under which the Royal Australian Air Force occupied the Air Base at Butterworth provided for: 
The 'Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Malaysian Air Force to retain their national identities under the command and control of their respective commanding officers. 
The RAAF Officer Commanding to have overall responsibility for services at the Base common to both air forces. 
The greater part of the base to be jointly occupied and used by the 2 air forces, while certain areas are occupied nationally by the Australian or Malaysian forces. 
Cost-sharing arrangements for the joint use of the Base covering extensive contributions by both Governments. Each air force meets its own direct maintenance costs, and each also provides at its own cost a range of important common services and facilities to the other. The maintenance costs of jointly-used facilities are shared on a flexible basis taking into account a number of factors including operational and personal requirements. 
Payment by Australia of a rental  for  Malaysian-owned assets used solely by the RAAF. The rental is offset against the Malaysian share of the cost of jointly-used maintenance services. Assets at the Base which are jointly used are exempt from rental, and these include the runways, large areas of other land, installations for water and electric supplies, re-fuelling systems, etc. 
The cost figures are: 
Capital cost to 30th June 197i- S10.3m; 
Maintenance cost (excess .over normal costs in Australia) to 30th June 1971- $57.020m. 
The arrangements for continued use of the base are as set out in the answer to question (1). 
As mentioned in the answer to question (1) " above, an annual rental is payable by Australia for land and buildings used exclusively for RAAF purposes. The amount of rental in 1970-71 was $A649,417, against which was offset $AS92,749 being Malaysia's share of the cost of jointly-used maintenance services, leaving a nett payment to Malaysia of $A56,668. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table sets out details of all ships and aircraft currently on order for the Services, together with estimated delivery dates and country of origin. . 
I am informed that the accident to which the honourable member refers was not caused by any fail.ture of the -aircraft itself, but. was one which could have happened to any fast low flying aircraft. Apparently, what happened was that this plane was on terrain following radar and was coming in at about 1,000 feet at some SOO knots when it struck an extremely large bird. The bird went through the windscreen and the canopy and severely injured the navigator. The pilot disengaged the terrain following radar and found the nose dipped forward at about 30 degrees. As he was finding some difficulty in controlling the aircraft he ejected successfully. 
This problem of birds is associated with aircraft which are low flying at high speed. There have been problems of ingestion of birds into engines and also problems of windscreens being broken by collision with birds. In fact, I informed the House that on one occasion one of the tests that was undertaken when the TSR2 was being manufactured in England was to fire at near sonic speed dead chooks .at the windscreen to see whether or not it broke. I have been speaking to the Acting Secretary of the United States Air Force, who is in Australia at the present moment, and he has said that this windscreen is being looked at at the moment to see whether there are ways in which it can be strengthened although it is believed - and I believe, to the best of my knowledge anyway - that this is the first occasion on which this has happened to the FI 1 1. 
The Fill came back into operation some 14 months ago. There are now 340 of these aircraft flying and, of these, I think 79 are on operation in Europe with North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces. They are giving extremely good and reliable operation performances. The tests which Australia insisted should be undertaken before we would make our final decision on the Fill are proceeding and I believe that, towards the end of this year, these tests will be far enough advanced for the Government to make a decision on the future of this aircraft. 
A lot of nonsense has been spoken recently about the Joint United States-Australian Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap as a result of a book written in the United States of America. I would like in particular tonight to answer charges that were made last Thursday by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. Unfortunately, I did not realise at the time that he was going to bring up this matter. The honourable member for Sturt claimed that the Opposition now believes in the existence in this country of, and I use his words, bases of a type that we should not have here. He claimed that these installations will not add to the defence effort of Australia and that their only purpose in the scheme of things is connected with the American defence system. Finally, the honourable member for Sturt asked for someone on the Government side of the House to inform the people what is happening at Pine Gap. Let me now inform honourable members of what can be disclosed. 
Pine Gap is a joint defence space research facility. It is manned jointly by Australia and the United States. Australia has access to all the results of research undertaken at Pine Gap. The Australian defence representative from the staff of the Chief Defence Scientists, Department of Defence, shares with the United States Department of Defence's Chief of Facility in the joint management of the project. Results of research activities are made available to the Department of Defence, Canberra, as the Australian co-operating agency. About 50 per cent of the 460 employees at the facility are Australians. As Australians gain experience in the skills involved in the research activity, a steadily increasing proportion of suitably qualified local employees will replace Americans in professional and semi-professional positions. It is the policy of both partners to select Australians for employment wherever suitable candidates are available. 
I must stress that the facility is entirely defensive and it cannot initiate offence. Members of the Government with a 'need to know" are fully conversant with the activities of the facility. Some Australian officers with the need to know have full access to all areas of the facility. Federal and Northern Territory members of Parliament may enter with prior permission but certain areas are restricted to those with a need to know. This Government is satisfied that the programme of work at the facility is compatible with the best interests of this country and of our partners. 
Certain people both inside and outside this House ask why there should be any security at all there. The result of this questioning is constant attempts to penetrate security at Pine Gap by sections of the media and certain honourable members opposite. Let me make it quite clear that the installation at Pine Gap is a part of the free world's defences. The security of this country is helped by its research programme. Premature disclosure of classified information could only be prejudicial to Australia's defence interests. 
The honourable member for Sturt claimed that we can only suffer as a result of our association with the United States of America. I believe completely the opposite. We are a small nation and have sought the assistance of powerful allies by treaties to improve our defence capabilities. Treaties give advantages, but they also impose obligations for us to undertake our fair share of defence preparations if we are to expect assistance in our hour of need. 
The agreement on Pine Gap was tabled in both Houses of the Federal Parliament. It is an agreed activity under ANZUS. I had thought that the Opposition favoured the ANZUS agreement. But does it? Where does the ALP really stand on the matter of defence bases and facilities? The ALP policy, as determined by the recent Launceston conference, is quite ambiguous. The ALP seeks to get the best of both worlds by having a bit each way. Let me quote the Labor Party policy. It states: 
Labor is opposed to the existence of foreign owned, controlled, or operated bases and facilities in Australian territory, especially if such bases involve a derogation from Australian sovereignty. 
Labor is not opposed to the use of Australian bases and facilities by Allies in war time, or in periods of international tension involving a threat to Australia, provided that Australian authority and sovereignty are unimpaired, and provided that Australia is not involved in hostilities without Australia's consent. 
The tenure of these bases and facilities by other powers should not be of such a character as to exclude properly accredited access by authorised Australians charged with the duty of evaluating Australian defence policy, whether members of the Australian Parliament, defence departments or armed services. 
So we are left in the dark as to whether a future Labor government would close down these bases or simply disclose their general purpose. In either case, the defence of Australia and the free world would be adversely affected. 
Some members of the Opposition believe that the House should be told everything about all our defence installations and that the people should then have the opportunity of deciding which ones they would be prepared to have. What utter nonsense! Do the Russians tell us, or their own people, what is happening at Plesetsk or Tyuratam? . Does the Chinese Government tell us, or the Chinese people, what they are doing at Lop Nor? 
In China. Do we, or should we. disclose to our potential enemies the performance of our latest aircraft or ships? If we do not disclose these, why should we disclose military secrets about our defence establishments? What the. honourable member for Sturt is really saying is that he is almost a complete pacifist and therefore he does not believe in a nation arming itself or in our making defensive agreements and alliances with our friends and allies. It has been claimed by certain members of the Opposition that if any base were associated, either offensively or defensively, with American nuclear strategy that base would automatically have a high priority for nuclear attack. The Government does not believe that any individual target in Australia would be singled out for nuclear attack in any situation short of a global nuclear war - the ultimate catastrophe which the Government's policy of co-operation with trusted, peace-loving allies would assist in preventing. 
I and other members of the Government who have a 'need to know' are fully conversant with activities at joint bases and are completely satisfied that the programme of work being done is compatible with the best interests of this country and of our partners. I have no intention of either confirming or denying speculation about the purposes of the joint space research facility in Australia. Such action could only help to reveal details of the highest national security. 
During the debate last night, I did hear the honourable member for Wills say that he felt that the establishment of the base at Pine Gap was a piece of national treachery. I was amazed; or, rather, I should say that I would have been amazed if I had heard anyone but the honourable member for Wills make this assertion. I believe that treachery is perfidy or betrayal. If anyone has tried to betray anything at Pine Gap, it is the people who have tried to breach security and to betray to our enemies or to our possible enemies the secrets of the Pine Gap installation which are vital for national defence. 
I believe that if national treachery of any sort has been committed, it has not been committed by those on this side of the House. It has been committed by those in the Press and some in the Opposition who have sought to uncover secrets which are vital to the defence of this country. 
For the information of honourable members, I present report No. 2 of the Committee of Inquiry into Services Pay (the Kerr Committee) dated July 1971, which is a supplementary report on the rates of pay for other ranks. 
The statement that was made by the Prime Minister is, of course, perfectly true. There has been a considerable improvement in the security in most areas of South Vietnam. This, of course, also includes Phuoc Tuy Province where South Vietnamese territorial and other regional and popular forces have taken over a considerable proportion of this area. However, the Australian Task Force still maintains the security and operational requirements in some of the more remote areas. It was in one of these remote areas that it was recently engaged in action with elements of a North Vietnamese regiment which had moved in from another adjoining province. We do not know whether this was caused by American activity forcing it to move in or whether it was moving in because of the withdrawal of the Australians. In the very near future, the South Vietnamese will be taking over completely the security of Phuoc Tuy Province. Arrangements are in hand at the present moment. It is believed by the Leader of the Australian Task Force that there will not be any great threat to the remaining 4th Battalion. But naturally, every possible assistance will be sought and is being given in the evacuation by the South Vietnamese and by the United States Air Force. 
I am sure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will realise that an answer given with direct dates to his question would enable the enemy to make such dispositions as it felt were suitable in the light of those dates. Obviously I am not going to give the actual date of the withdrawal of the Third Battalion or of when the Fourth Battalion will move to Vung Tau. AH' I say is that the Third Battalion will move out in mid-October. At about the same time the other battalion will start to move down to Vung Tau. Once again for security reasons, I will not give the actual date on which the Australian force is handing over to the South Vietnamese. But I assure the honourable member that adequate arrangements are being made to assure that Australians are supported fully in their withdrawal. 
As I have pointed out already, about half the province is under the operational control of the regional forces and popular forces. Also there are the South Vietnamese self defence forces in that area. The other half of the province will be handed over in the fairly near future. In addition there will be American units in the near north. The Royal Australian Air Force will remain in the area and it will continue to give operational support. In the meantime no restriction has been placed upon the Australian task force while it is still in operational control of this area. Obviously it would be quite stupid to prevent it going into some of the more remote areas to stop a build-up by the enemy at a time when such a restriction could allow the enemy, to build up and then, when the Australian force moved out, be ready to attack whatever force was replacing the Australian force. I think that answers the honourable gentleman's question. 
I  was sorry to hear the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  make some rather snide attacks on Government supporters. He made a snide attack on the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He said that the honourable member was always advocating that people should go out and fight for their country but that he did not give after sales service and see that they were properly looked after. All I can say to the honourable member for Burke is that there is noone else in this House who has done as much for ex-servicemen as the honourable member for La Trobe. The honourable member is today chairing an all party committee inquiring into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. He is  chairman  of the Government members defence committee. In one case he worked extremely hard for a naval officer whom he felt had been wronged and he did his best to right that wrong. He asks questions on defence matters. AH I can say to the honourable member for Burke is that if at the end of his parliamentary career which, I believe, will not be a very Jong one, he can say he has done one quarter as much for exservicemen as the honourable member for La Trobe he can be extremely pleased with himself. 
The honourable member for Burke also made a snide attack on the Melbourne Club. We cannot avoid this sort of thing. People talk of the Establishment and it is thought that members of the Melbourne Club sip their beer and send someone else off to fight for them. Of course, in actual fact - I do not know whether the honourable member knows but many other people would know it - an extremely high percentage of the members of the Melbourne Club fought and died for their country. 
Yes, including me. I did not die, or at least I have not died yet. But anyway, this is a Bill relating to national service and not to Vietnam. The honourable member for Burke spent most of his time speaking about Vietnam and he showed his complete ignorance of the Services. He spoke about one ship in the Royal Australian Navy being sunk and half the Navy going to the bottom. Of course, he does not realise that we have 55 ships in the Navy. But never mind, this is a good laughable story. I suppose it goes over well with people who do not know anything. But let us get back to this topic of national service and not concentrate on Vietnam because that is another subject and we have already heard a debate on it. 
We know, of course, that members of the Opposition are opposed to national service. They have never made any secret of the fact even though they themselves had to use national service during the last World War. But they are opposed to a great many attempts made by the Government to try to improve Australia's defence. 
Let me quote a few of them. First of all, they are opposed to national service. If we oppose national service we immediately cut the size of the army by one third. Members of the Opposition are opposed to assisting any of our allies. This is an extraordinary thing, is it not? A small independent nation asks for help and the Labor Party says: 'Oh, no, we are not going outside. Let us stay at home. They can be overrun. What does it matter?' 
Of course this was so in Vietnam. The Labor Party has done this. The Opposition is opposed to American bases in Australia. We do not know why because the reason is ambiguous at the present time but the Opposition says that it is opposed to any bases in Australia. We know perfectly well that after the Second World War the Labor Party prevented the American Government from maintaining the magnificent base at Manus Island. We believe that the Opposition would prevent the American bases now established in Australia from carrying on. This is the contribution that the Labor Party makes to Australia's defence. 
The attitude of the Labor Party to service in our defence forces is that there should be complete volunteer service. That is very good because the present Australian Government believes that we should have a maximum number of volunteers. But the Labor Party has persuaded itself, with its head in the clouds, that all you have to do is to put up the salary a few dollars a week and we will get all the volunteers we want. This is completely against any experience that this Government has bad. In 1963 there was a 30 per cent increase in salaries for servicemen and we received a marginal increase in the number of people who volunteered. There was a slight increase in the re-engagement rate. Recently there has been another considerable increase in wages for servicemen. The first 2 reports of the Kerr Committee - and there are more to come - recommended an additional $30m a year for Service pay. What has been the result of this recommendation? Admittedly there has only been a short time in which judge the result but as far as we can see there has been no apparent increase in the recruitment rate but there has been a slight improvement in the re-engagement rate. However there is a limit to the number that can be re-engaged because of promotions within the Services and younger people moving into higher ranks. 
Naturally we are looking at every possible way to improve the attraction of the Services. We have been not unsuccessful. We have built the numbers up but there is a limit. We are looking at housing, retirement benefits, repatriation benefits and a reduction in excessive postings. There are many ways in which we hope to encourage more people to join. Under this Bill the period of full time national service will be shortened and the number of national servicemen in the Army will be reduced. The reasons which have allowed the Government to make these adjustments to the national service scheme were outlined broadly by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his speech to the House of Representatives on 18th August 1971 concerning the withdrawal of Australian forces from Vietnam. 
In 1964 when national service was introduced we had a Regular Army of less than 23,000. Hostilities were taking place in several areas in South East Asia and the situation was deteriorating. A comprehensive review of our strategic situation covering existing commitments and likely contingencies revealed a need to . increase the strength of the Army to some 40,000 in less than 2 years. The recruiting campaign, as I said, was stepped up, servicemen's pay was increased and moves already in train to improve conditions of service continued. These measures increased re-engagement rates to some extent, but the effects on recruiting were marginal. It was apparent that the required increase in Army strength could not be obtained by voluntary means alone in a time of full employment within the time scale dictated by the strategic review. It was decided reluctantly that there was no alternative to introducing selective national service. Remember that this decision was made 2 years before we made a decision to go into Vietnam. The Army had to be increased to meet our overall requirements. Only one-third of national servicemen called up have been sent to Vietnam, and the bulk of our servicemen deployed in that area have been members of the regular forces. 
Since 1964 when the national service scheme was introduced political stability &gt;n South East Asia has improved and there have been other qualitative changes in the region which are encouraging. There are, however, developments within and without the area which complicate the strategic situation, particularly the withdrawal of American forces and the reduction of the number of British forces in that area, which point to the need to maintain our defence capability. This capability must be such that we could develop it in adequate time should more immediate threats to our security arise, and for these purposes the Government considers that the scheme as now adjusted is an important element in our defence preparedness. The fluid strategic situation in which we find ourselves demands flexibility in our strategic policies and the progressive development of selfreliant forces and an evident defence capability. The national service scheme is an important element in this capability and in the retention of a readiness for various situations which might require the involvement of our forces. 
Following withdrawal of our combat forces from South Vietnam we can reduce our full time Army from 44,000 to 40,000 men. The strength of our defence forces is not measured solely by the numbers actively serving. A secondary, but important, purpose of national service has been to insure against emergencies by building up a reservoir of trained soldiers. Every year since 1967 some 8,000 national servicement have been added to the Regular Army Reserve after 2 years service. This has meant already an increase of 40,000 in the numbers of fully trained and experienced men available. In addition, many people of military age joined the Citizen Military Forces and were trained there, having selected the CMF as an alternative to national service. The importance of this asset of skilled manpower is considerable. Defence services can not be turned on and off like a tap, as the honourable member for Brisbane seemed to imply. It takes time to train soldiers and to give them experience with formed units. We cannot wait until an attack on Australia is imminent before we do this. By providing Australia with fully trained and experienced reservists national service has had an impact on our defence potential far beyond increasing the strength of our full time Army. 
Alternatives to the national service programme range from abolition of the callup to universal service. The first would have been disastrous by preventing us meeting our commitments and depriving us of a steadily increasing strength of trained exservicemen. Universal service would be unnecessary and would not be practicable. It would require the call-up of men in excess of our needs. It would also be wasteful economically by diverting from their normal occupations many men for whom there would be no worthwhile military tasks. There must be a balance and the numbers called up each year have been assessed on the highest professional military judgment as those required to meet known military needs. 
National service as implemented has been an outstanding success in achieving its purpose. National servicemen have been integrated completely into the Army. They receive the same conditions of service as regular soldiers, their training is identical and national servicemen are indistinguishable from other members of the Army. They have acquitted themselves with credit on active operations and in general service in the highest traditions of the Australian serviceman. Many national servicemen have been trained as specialists in various fields, and every effort is made to make full use of civilian acquired skills where compatible with military needs. Despite the clamour against national service by an organised and vocal minority, opposition to the call-up has not been shown by those affected directly. As at 30th June 1971 6 men had been imprisoned for failure to report and render service and 96 others had failed to report and render service. Some of these latter cases had not been finalised. These minuscule figures compare with 51,000 young men called up and enlisted. There is the alternative of joining the Citizens Forces for those who do not wish to render full-time service. 
The Government has taken all reasonable steps to reduce disruption to the careers of national servicemen by deferring call-up until completion of studies or on family hardship grounds, and by guaranteeing restoration in civil employment on completion of service. Resettlement provisions include full-time training for up to 12 months or part-time training for 2 years. 
All fees, books and equipment are provided and a living allowance is paid to those undergoing full-time resettlement training. Loans for business or agricultural purposes are available where appropriate for resettlement. 
It has always been the Government's aim, as. I said earlier and as stated by the Prime Minister at the time national service was introduced, that as large a percentage as possible of our forces be volunteers. No service can be an effective force without those experienced officers and NCOs with the training and expertise that comes from long service. Our Navy and Air Force are entirely volunteer forces. So is the bulk - almost two thirds - of the Army. An allvolunteer Army is not possible at this stage. This has been found to be the case in many other countries. People sometimes talk as though Australia was the only country which had national service. I should like to quote a list of countries which have national service. In the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, there is conscription in the army or air force for 2 years and for navy border guards the period is 3 years. France has national service for 12 to 15 months on a selective basis and Denmark has it for a period of 12 months. West Germany has national service for 18 months. Switzerland has national service. In Israel, the period of national service is 36 months for males and 20 months for females. The United Arab Republic has such service for 3 years and South Africa has it for 9 to 12 months. In Taiwan, national service for the army is 2 years and, for the navy, 3 years. In North Korea the period is 3 to 4 years. New Zealand has a voluntary system which is supplemented by selected national service for the army. Singapore has national service for 2 years, North Vietnam for 3 years and South Vietnam for 3 years. Of course Australia is not the only country which has national service. 
As the Prime Minister said in the House on 18th August, the Government will review force levels as necessary as part of the 5-year defence rolling programme. It is important against the strategic outlook for the 1970s and the 1980s to have the right balance of equipment and men in the defence forces as a whole. Close attention will continue to be given to all practicable means of increasing voluntary recruitment. 
Comparisons have been made by some people with the United Kingdom and Canada which have no compulsory national service. The situations in these countries are not comparable. But are we seeking to have too many people in our armed services? I am sure we are not. It has been mentioned that Australia has a total of about 85,000 in the armed services, which is about 3.5 per cent of men of military age in Australia. This can be compared with France, which has 5.2 per cent of military aged men in the armed services, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which has 6.9 per cent, the United States of America which has 8.5 per cent and Canada, which has 2.3 per cent. Canada's percentage is somewhat less than our percentage, but, as someone has already mentioned, Canada is in the shadow and umbrella of the United States and although it is a Pacific power, it does not seem to have made any attempt to take any active part with its services in the Pacific area. 
Comparisons are also made, as I mentioned, with the United States where the Gates Commission has proposed abolition of compulsory fulltime service by 1973. There is no guarantee that this aim will be achieved. The legislative power to call up men for service remains operative in the United States and has just been reconfirmed by Congress. The situation there is also not comparable with Australia. America is reducing her forces considerably - overall, by some 25 per cent. There are other differences. The level of unemployment in the United States over recent years has averaged' 4.4 per cent and has reached 6 per cent. This compares with the Australian average of 1.3 per cent. It is easy to see that there is a relatively larger pool of potential recruits for the services in the United States of America. Further, the main recommendation of the Gates Commission was that pay of recruits be increased from the existing level to about 60 per cent of comparable civilian pay up to civilian pay standards. This also must have some effect on voluntary recruiting. In Australia, servicemen's pay, including the pay of national, servicemen, is already aligned with civilian pay scales with a loading to compensate for the , particular conditions of service life/ 
The Government has taken all steps possible within reasonable limits to attract volunteers to the Services. Further substantial pay increases have been announced recently and these will have a positive effect on improving recruitment and reengagement rates. More married quarters are being built, or houses acquired, each year for servicemen. A total of 20,000 dwellings is now available. Living quarters for unmarried servicemen are being improved and those now being built are of a very high standard of design and comfort. Postings, particularly for men with families, are being reduced to a minimum necessary for service needs, and this situation will improve further when the unavoidable turbulence caused by unaccompanied service in Vietnam has gone. More attention is being paid to variety in diet, the irksome irritations of service life are being removed, and modern amenities are being provided at all bases. These measures have not been without success. Over the time span covered by national service the strength of the volunteer element of our Services has been increased by over 13,000, some 5,000 of this number being in the Army. Many of these are, or will become, long-term career servicemen. 
The Government is not complacent. Much needs to be done and will be done as time permits to make Services an attracticeattractice career. Servicemen and servicewomen rightly have a high standing in the community. We intend to improve that image further. It cannot be assumed however that there is a simple elasticity of supply of volunteers and that the numbers coming forward will increase in direct proportion to improvements in pay conditions. There are many alternative employments available for our young men, and in a peace situation there are not the strongest motives to join the Services. Although there is a steadily increasing strength of volunteers, national servicemen, even at the reduced number of 12,000, will still comprise some 30 per cent of the total Army manpower of 40,000! This is a gap that cannot now be bridged by voluntary recruitment. National Service must remain with us if we are to maintain an Army to meet all assessed military requirements. It will continue to be the success that it has been. I support the Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
.The Australian Infantry Battalion is at present in Selarang Barracks, the Field Battery is in Nee Soon Barracks, and there are other Australian sub-units and detachments at Terror, Kranji, Suara, Tengah, Tyersall Park, the Naval Stores Basin and Changi. 
Taking the Naval Stores Basin as a central point of measurement, the distances from there to the other locations are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:   (la) The value of defence orders placed by the US in Australia and processed by the Department of Supply in 1970/71 was $7.100m. (lb) Trucks and sugar. 
Complete records are- not available of orders placed directly on Australian industry by overseas countries, however some information on known contracts placed by companies in the United States is available and the details are as follows: 
Hawker de Havilland Pty Ltd - aircraft components, S2.874m. 
John Lysaght - Galvanised iron sheet, $0.577m. 
 Various firms - Meat, $0.270m. 
Australian Training Aids - Portable range systems, $0.237m. State Dockyards New South Wales- Ship overhaul, $0.1 42m. - Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation- Aircraft components, $0.137m. 
The answer to the hon  ourable  member's  question  is  as  follows:  :" (la) The value of defence orders placed by New Zealand in Australia and processed by the Department of Supply in 1970-71 was $0.110m. (lb) Rifle spares and naval equipment. (2) It is known that orders totalling $1.277m have been placed by companies in New Zealand  for communications equipment and vehicles. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (la) The value of defence orders placed by Britain in Australia and processed by the Department of Supply in 1970-71 was $6.555m. (lb) Ikara, Jindvik and camera equipment.' 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, is as follows:  (la) The value of defence orders placed by Malaysia in Australia and processed by the  Department of Supply in 1970-71 was $0.958m. (lb) Munitions and truck spares. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (la) The value of defence orders placed by Singapore in Australia and processed by the Department of Supply in 1970-71 was $0.S36m. (lb) Rifles, r1112 spares and cranes. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian servicemen are under a legal duty to refuse to carry out orders which are manifestly contrary to law including international law. Australian servicemen are instructed as to what constitutes a lawful order and prior to posting to an operational area and periodically whilst in the area are instructed in their duties and responsibilities towards other nationals and their possessions. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said at the beginning of his speech that we still do nol know what is likely to happen in a few years time in South Vietnam. He said we do not know whether South Vietnam is likely to survive. All I can say is that there is no doubt whatsoever that without the help that South Vietnam received from the free world it would not have survived. That help was mainly provided by the United States of America but Australia and a number of our allies in the South East Asia area also provided assistance. Australia's help was provided despite the complete opposition of the Australian Labor Party. Had the Labor Party had its way and had its policy been carried out, not only as far as we are concerned but also as far as the Americans are concerned, there is no doubt that today South Vietnam would be a Communist state. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that this matter was raised as an exercise to look at the disposition of our present forces. He said that the Opposition wants to know whether regular units of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam were being brought into Phuoc Tuy Province. It staggers me to think what would happen if we said: 'Yes, ARVN units are being brought into this area'. Immediately the Communists and the Vietcong would know that this unit is being taken away from somewhere else. It literally amazes me that the Opposition, which regards itself as the alternative government should be so insensitive to the needs of security. Security is essential in a military operation of this kind, and it is even more essential when we are in a situation of withdrawal from an area in which, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said, enemy units are still operating. 
The Government and its military advisers are doing everything possible to ensure a safe withdrawal. Following the Government's decision on the withdrawal of Australian forces from Vietnam, plans for the withdrawal were developed by the commander of the Australian Forces in Vietnam under the direction of the Australian Chiefs of Staff. These plans take into account the parallel planning by the South Vietnamese authorities for the redeployment of Vietnamese forces as appropriate in order that the South Vietnamese forces may assume in the very near future full operational responsibility for the security of Phuoc Tuy Province. Until the handover of responsibility takes place the Australian forces must meet their military obligations for the protection of settled areas within the province. At the same time, such action will reduce the risk of enemy interference during the stages of the Australian withdrawal. But the extraordinary thing is that the Opposition does not seem to realise this need for security. Opposition members seem to think that the men are just coming home from a trade union picnic or something and that the Government can give details of exactly where every units is going to be, how many will be there and at what time they will move out. 
The Opposition has asked and continues to ask questions which, if answered, would be of little use to it but which would be of immense strategic value to our enemy. Let me refer to the question asked of me by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this House yesterday. As I said at the time, I have no intention of breaking security. An honourable member is meant to ask only one question at a time but I think that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked four. His third question was as follows: 
When will the withdrawal of the Fourth Battalion from Nui Dat to Vung Tau begin and when will it finish? 
Could there by any more blatant question which, if answered, would warn the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese regiments exactly when and where the Australians were going to be? The next part of his question reads as follows: 
Finally, what restrictions have been put on the operation of Australian units in Vietnam during the remaining months of the commitment? 
Obviously, if I had said that the Australian task force is not to patrol any more, this would have been as good as saying to the Vietcong: 'You are right now, boys. Go to it.' What a stupid question! We have seen constant attempts by the Opposition to try to breach security in a way which does not help it. It does not help the Australians, because the best possible is being done by our highest military advisers. But it would help the enemy. 
Let me refer to other instances. Some time ago the Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked the then Minister for the Army: 
When was the construction of the minefield across Phuoc Tuy province begun? 
When was it completed? 
How long is the minefield? 
How deep is it? 
How many yards of wire were laid in the perimeter of the field? 
What type of mines were laid? 
What Australian units were deployed in laying the field? 
What arrangements were made with the army of South Vietnam to patrol the minefield? 
Were these arrangements ever carried out? 
What Australian, South Vietnamese and other units have ever patrolled the minefield? 
What aerial surveillance units have patrolled the minefield? 
What units are now patrolling the minefield? How many Vietcong corridors across the minefield have been detected? 
Of course, if the Minister had said that a certain number had been detected the enemy would know that a few others had not been detected. That would be a great help to them. The Deputy Leader also asked: 
How many mines have been removed from the minefield by Vietcong? 
Have sections of the minefield been destroyed by the Australian task force; if so, by what units? 
What methods have been used in the destruction of these sections of the minefield? 
Is it planned to destroy the whole minefield and its perimeter? 
I ask honourable members whether anything could give more information to the enemy. The Iron Curtain countries and the Communist countries certainly do not need a spy ring in Australia. All they need is for the Government to answer the Opposition's questions.  1  say this in a most calculated way because I feel that it is true: It is tragic to find that there has been a constant attempt by the Opposition and by the members of the Australian Labor Party to undermine the morale of Australians in South Vietnam. The  president  of one of the State branches of the Australian Labor Party called on the national servicemen in South Vietnam to mutiny. Encouragement has been given by some members of the ALP to draft resisters to break the law. Gaol vigils have been undertaken by some ALP members and others have addressed and taken part in moratorium campaigns against the war in Vietnam. We have seen the shameful example of honourable members wearing moratorium badges in this chamber. I am told that about  75  members of the Opposition signed a moratorium statement against the Vietnamese war. One could go on and mention the attempts to break security at Pine Gap and the moves to abolish national service. 
At this very moment there is awaiting consideration by the House an amendment moved by the Opposition which, if carried, would immediately reduce the size of the army from 44,000 to 28,000 men. I ask: Is this going to help the security of Australia? The ALP has decided that there should be no foreign bases on Australian soil. Honourable members know that this has been the policy of the Labor Party previously. Attempts have been made to denigrate the Fill aircraft. 
I have heard constant attempts by the Opposition to denigrate the Fill yet about 350 of them are flying in the United States Air Force today. The Opposition has tried to make out that the conflict in Vietnam is a civil war instead of one which was instigated and almost entirely supported - I would not say entirely supported - by the North Vietnamese. Every action is taken by the Opposition to reduce the strength of our defence and our commitment in Vietnam. The only action that I can call to mind at the present moment which would not have the effect immediately of reducing our strength was the statement made by the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  (hat in some circumstances the Labor Party would be prepared to leave troops in Vietnam. He was very quickly hauled into line and the then Leader of the Opposition said that this was an attempt to knife him in the back and that Labor policy was 'out of Vietnam and out as soon as possible'. This occurred only a few days before the general election in 1966. 
The present debate has been brought about by the recent major clash in the north of the central portion of Phuoc Tuy province. This is in what is known as the clearing zone'. As I said yesterday, the clearing zone is an area of remote jungle clad and largely unpopulated territory - where the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese have constantly assembled and have then moved to attack the more populated areas. The Australian task force still has operational responsibility for certain areas of Phuoc Tuy province and it is working with the South Vietnamese forces who have taken over most of the populated areas and will very shortly take over all of them. It is true that there has recently been a very considerable increase in activity in this clearing zone which is only about 11 miles from Nui Dat and only about 5 miles from one of the more populated areas. 
There was a sudden movement of elements of the 33rd North Vietnamese army regiment into this area. It could have been that this movement was brought about by the Americans who were operating in the area previously occupied by this regiment which had moved further south as a result. The regiment may have been waiting to pounce or to interfere with the withdrawal of the Australians. It may have been there to dig in and to make certain that once the Australians handed over the responsibility, the regiment was dug in in an area from which it would be extremely hard for the territorial forces of South Vietnam to dislodge it. It may have been there to disrupt the elections which are to be held early in October. 
1 could not hear what the honourable gentleman said, but if he is talking about the elections I would ask him how many elections are ever held in North Vietnam. At least many elections are held in South Vietnam. I have met heads of villages and hamlets who have been elected on a number of occasions as a result of free democratic elections. The regiment posed an immediate threat to centres of population which were only 5 miles away. The army does not believe that it poses a major threat to the impending withdrawal. Nevertheless, these people could harass and obstruct the withdrawal. So the commander very rightly mounted this operation. Of course we all know that it is an unfortunate thing that you cannot fight a war without casualties. 
We also know that the casualties suffered by the Vietcong were considerably greater than those suffered by the Australians. So the Commander followed a reasonable and prudent course to ensure the security of his force and the security of the Province. The Task Force was fully supported. There have been allegations that some support has been withdrawn. This is not so. The Army still has call upon the Royal Australian Air Force. In fact, in this engagement the Army used RAAF gun ships which had not previously been available. Of course, it has call on the United States Air Force and on artillery. It is true that the tank squadron has been withdrawn but it has been replaced by Australian Army fire support vehicles. The 33rd Regiment of the North Vietnamese has been severely mauled and it may take some months before it can regroup. But very soon the responsibility for the security of this area will pass to the South Vietnamese. 
The Labor Party has a consistent policy on this matter, lt has followed this policy ever since we first went into Vietnam despite the fact that it was not endorsed by the people at 2 elections. It has been a policy of get out. As I said earlier, had this policy triumphed initially and had there been no Americans assisting the South Vietnamese we know perfectly well that today South Vietnam would be another Communist country or Communist province. We believe that a great deal has been achieved by the Australian forces. They are leaving behind a province in which physical security has been greatly improved. Very much more land is under cultivation and much of it is now owned by the tillers of the soil and not by absentee landlords as used to be the case. New roads are there and are packed with Hondas. Hospitals and water supplies have been improved. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The pay of medical officers in the Services was under review at the time the National Wage Case was handed down and in preference to promulgating separate increase within a short period, it was considered desirable to process the national wage increase simultaneously with increases resulting on completion of the review. Some further delay occurred because of the time taken to process the changes through regulations, which is an essential requirement before Service pay changes can be implemented. 
Yes. This has already been achieved in the past except for the isolated instance of the medical officers. 
The timetable on which 1 am working at the present time and which I hope I will be able to maintain is that during the next few weeks I will be bringing to the Cabinet a paper which Cabinet will have an opportunity of looking at and discussing, and subject to the views expressed I would hope shortly after then to be able to produce in the House a paper on defence. I can assure the honourable gentleman that I will do everything possible to see that the House is kept informed. We are expecting very shortly the defence report which has been in the hands of the printer for some time. I expect that it will be available to honourable members in the next few days. Of course, the defence estimates will also be coming up shortly for debate, and I will be making statements then, as I have spoken twice this week on matters pertaining to defence. But it will certainly be my intention and that of the Government to keep the House as closely informed on matters of defence as we possibly can. 
There has been no change whatsoever in Government policy on this matter. The situation referred to applied merely to one final movement of 84 men who were being sent to Vietnam for an extremely, short period. It was felt by the Minister for the Army to be wise to vary the policy on that occasion. He discussed the matter with me. It does not mean that there has been any change in Government policy generally. 
At the time that this matter was previously reviewed by the 
Government it was decided that a considerable amount of additional information was necessary to substantiate some of the figures. Of course, a report was received by the Government on this matter. The figures are now being updated. I am hot able to say how soon it will be possible for the Government to make a decision, but it is certainly a matter which' is under consideration and on which a decision will have to be made in the not too distant future so as to enable the Services to know exactly what action they should take with their present academies. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The numbers and percentages of servicemen who re-engaged on completion of an initial engagement in 1970-71 were as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the Defence Report 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
Yes. Demonstrations of the Rank Individual Weapons Sight were given to representatives of the Service Departments and the Department of Supply on 3rd and 4th March 1971. 
and (3) It is not intended to equip the Services with the IWS at this time as the equipment in service is satisfactorily performing a similair function. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1st August 1970 and 31st August 1971 30 prisoners of war were captured by Australian Forces in Vietnam. A total of 199 prisoners have been captured since June 1965 when the first Australian battalion arrived in that country. 
I have not seen the report to which the honourable gentleman has referred but I can assure him that no decision along the lines he has mentioned has been made by this Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made in 1970-71 for each class of ship and aircraft which has been ordered for the Services from overseas are set out hereunder. This information includes payments made both overseas and in Australia. 
I have seen a transcript of the story which was filed by  Mr Andrew  Swanton from Vietnam and broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission recently. I have had a close look at it, but I believe that it refers only in general terms to numbers and that it does not refer to actual detailed movements of Australian troops. Therefore, I do not believe that there has been any breach of security in this article. I am informed by my department that there is, in fact, no censorship in Vietnam but that what happens is that correspondents are accredited by the South Vietnamese Government and by the United States Government. When they are accredited they are given guidelines and told that if there is any breach of security by them or if they conduct activities on the. black market the accreditation will be withdrawn. On a number of occasions the accreditation of correspondents has been withdrawn because of these breaches. But I have taken the opportunity of ensuring that all correspondents in the Australian' Task Force area are reminded of the fact that should there be any breach of security on their part their accreditation will be immediately withdrawn. I have asked that they be informed that . particularly at a time like this they should make every effort to see that no information is given which could lead in any way to endangering the lives of Australian men in that area. I thank the honourable member for bringing this matter to the attention of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employees have occasionally been injured during their employment at Pine Gap. 
These injuries have given rise to workers' compensation claims which have been raised and processed. There has been only one occasion when an insurance assessor wished to conduct his interviews on site, in March of this year. On that occasion, witnesses were interviewed by arrangement at the Pine Gap check point. The injured worker was at that time in hospital. A company representative took the insurance assessor to the hospital to interview the injured man and offered to show him in the Facility's town office an item of furniture identical to the one which was claimed to be a factor in the injury. This offer was declined as being neither important nor necessary. 
If an insurance company claims assessor wishes to conduct inquiries at the Facility, he should ask the local management of the firm concerned to obtain permission for the visit. Arrangements will then be made by the Australian Defence Representative for the assessor to have the necessary access to interview witnesses and to make relevant inspections. 
As there has been only the one case which is referred to above, an 'average period of time' would not be particularly meaningful. In normal circumstances, it can be expected that a visit would take place in about an hour after the request was made. If the equipment were in certain parts of the research building to which access could not readily be permitted, it would take a little longer to make the necessary arrangements. 
I am sorry that the honourable member was not here when I made a full statement to the House and I would suggest that he look the statement up. I have constantly made it clear that the Government has no intention whatsoever of reacting to the many rumours which are constantly brought out in an attempt to try and undermine the security of the American bases in Australia. We believe that only harm can come out of any of these and it is an obvious attempt by certain members of the Press and by certain members of the Opposition to try and break the security of these bases. These installations are part of the defence of the free world. Australia believes that there is every reason why we should co-operate with our great allies and particularly with the United States as part of the ANZUS agreement, and I have no intention whatsoever of either confirming or denying any rumours which are published in the papers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Elements of all 3 Services joined with forces from other 5 Power partners, including Malaysia and Singapore, in Exercise Bersatu Padu in July 1970. 
Ships ot the Royal Australian Navy also exercised with units of the Malaysian and Singaporean navies in January, February and March 1971. Aircraft of the Royal Malaysian Airforce also participated in the February exercise. 
The Royal Australian Air Force exercised with the Royal Malaysian Air Force in January and February 1971. Since February when the Commander of the Integrated Air Defence System was appointed, the RAAF has co-operated closely with the Malaysian and Singaporean airforces in working up the Integrated Air Defence System to operational status preparatory to it being inaugurated on September 1st, 1971. To give 3 examples only of the type of activities which have taken place during the working-up period: 
since June 1971 RAAF Mirage aircraft have taken part in exercises with RMAF Sabre aircraft involving air combat tactics; 
RAAF Mirages have participated in air defence exercises throughout the period during which numerous sorties were controlled by Malaysian controllers; 
similar exercises have been held regularly involving Singaporean controllers and detachments of Mirage aircraft sent to Singapore each month. 
With the formal inauguration of the Integrated Air Defence System on September 1st this year it may be expected that activities such as those instanced above will become part of the normal day to day activities of the RAAF in Malaysia and Singapore 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1-5. See the answer given by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 2364 (Hansard, 15th September, 1971, pages 1395 and 1396). 6-7. Since my predecessor's statement in the House of Representatives on 16th March, consideration has continued of the procedures for the employment of elements of the Defence Force in aid of the civil power in Papua New Guinea, should this become necessary. The Administrator and the Executive Council will be consulted. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1. (a) Vietnam - 
Navy - HMAS 'Brisbane' - arrived in Brisbane on 11th October 1971. 
Army - 3rd Battalion RAR - returned to Australia on 16th October. 4th Battalion RAR- December 1971. 
Air Force - No. 9 Squadron - December 1971. No. 35 Squadron - early 1972. 
Singapore - 
Navy - HMAS 'Parramatta' - arrived in Fremantle 6th October 1971. HMAS 'Derwent' - mid December 1971. 
Army - 6th Battalion RAR - December 1973. 108 Field Battery- December 1971. 
Air Force - RAAF Support Unit Tengah - Personnel in the unit complete tours of 2 to  2i  years. 
RAAF Advisory Flight attached to Singapore Armed Forces - This unit is training personnel of the Singapore Armed Forces in the use of the Bloodhound missile. It is expected to complete its task in about 2 years. 
United States Withdrawals from South Vietnam -  President  Nixon announced on 7th April 1971 that a total of 265,000 men would have been withdrawn from Vietnam by 1st May 1971, and that a further 100,000 were to be withdrawn between 1st May and 1st December 1971. 
British Force Reductions in Malaysia and Singapore - Britain has announced that her forces in the Mediterranean, Middle and Far East were reduced by a total of some 3,600 during 1970 and that in the financial year 1971-72 the strength of her Army Combat Forces in the Far East, including Hong Kong, would be some 5,900 less than in the previous year. The reductions in Navy and Air strengths have not been announced. 
A request was received from the American Ambasador by the Department of Defence on 1st October. The Department proceeded to look into this request. In other words, it discussed it with the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of the Army to see to what extent the request could be met. By this time we were getting close to the time when the Prime Minister was to leave Australia, and I sent a letter urgently to him before he left. Unfortunately, owing to the difficulty that he had in the last day or two before his departure, it was not possible for the Prime Minister to consider this matter. His officials were informed and he took the letter with him. The one point I make is that the Prime Minister should have been informed immediately the request was received, and I have taken steps to see that on every future occasion, even if a request is being worked on by a department, the Prime Minister is informed immediately that request is received. 
The request came to the Australian Government through the United States Government, but after it had been in consultation in Vietnam with both the Vietnamese and the Cambodians. It is not at the present moment proper for me to disclose further details whilst all that is proposed at present is for discussions between the Prime Minister and the  President.  These discussions, if agreed to, would then lead to discussions on the military level in Vietnam. 
I wish to make a personal explanation to correct a reply I gave at question time today to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Honourable members will recall that I said: 
A request was received from the American Ambassador by the Department of Defence on 1st October. 
What I should have said was: 
A request was received from the American Embassy in Canberra by the Department of Foreign Affairs on 30th September and was sent to the Department of Defence on 1st October. 
I think there is no doubt whatsoever that the quality and strength of the Vietnamese Army has built up enormously during recent years and that this has been partly due to the excellent instruction it has had from the Australians. However, the Vietnamese Army is anxious to see that in small measure this training continues because I think it is true to say that there would be no equal in jungle warfare to the Australian instructors that we have had in Vietnam, and we are glad that we have been able to arrange for the instruction to be continued. 
21368 71  -  J?  -  104) 
I am afraid I have not seen the actual report referred to but I will get it immediately. It was a clear understanding when the Singapore team came to Australia to look at various facilities that Singapore would pay for the facilities and training obtained down here and that it would pay a fair and agreed reasonable price. 
First, let me make a couple of points. Firstly, I see that the motion refers to the treatment of the request for assistance in training Cambodian and Laotian troops in Vietnam. May I say that, to the best of my knowledge, there never has been any proposal to train Laotian troops in Vietnam? Secondly, I want to reply to the Deputy Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who referred I constantly, almost ad nauseam, to what he said I had called a 'low key issue'. Let me tell the House that I did not refer to this as a low key issue. I said that it was a low key approach from the American Embassy. It was a low key approach because it was one from the Embassy, not from the Ambassador, and it was one which was not in writing. It was intended to feel out what our situation would be in a field in which Australia was already active. This was really just an extension. 
May I say that I am, and I am sure that all those associated with me are, extremely sorry that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was not advised earlier of this particular request. I regret any embarrassment that this has caused him. I certainly do not minimise my concern. As I said yesterday. I have taken whatever steps I can to see that this does not occur again, although one cannot, of course, guarantee 100 per cent that something might not occur again. But I have done everything that I can, and we are looking further into this question to see what further steps can be taken. However, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked a question. He said that yesterday I had said that 'a' department should have informed the Prime Minister. In fact, he almost inferred that I had changed the Hansard record. I can assure him that I certainly did not. But I do make the point that the primary responsibility for transactions between an overseas country and the Australian Government is with the Department of Foreign Affairs. A tremendous number of these requests come in. The Department gets them and it makes a decision as to whether it believes it is a matter which should be referred to Ministers or to the Prime Minister or whether it is a matter which should be referred to departments as a great many are. Some of them, of course, come to nothing and are not heard of again. 
 Let me initially go through an outline of the facts so that the House will have the opportunity of seeing whether I have been damaging and dangerous in my treatment of this issue. The request was received from the American Embassy in Canberra on 30th September. It was an oral request from the Embassy and it was transmitted the Department of Defence on 1st October. As I said in my Press conference yesterday- 
No, I have not referred to a document at all. I have said a request'. I said it was an oral request. 
There is no document. 
As 1 said, an oral request was received from the American Embassy, and this was transmitted to the Department of Defence by the officer on 1st October. 
Does this matter? As I have previously pointed out at my Press conference, 1st October was a Friday, and a long weekend intervened before the request was received by my Department on Tuesday, 5th October. It was processed then through the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Army and the Chiefs of Staff. There were a number of issues which had to be resolved. First of all, was the Army in a position to be able to agree to this request? Did it have the people available? For one thing we know that the Cambodians are basically French speaking or that their second language is French. Matters like this had to be taken into account to see what could be done. 
The draft letter was sent to me with a note from the Department late on the 25th. It was put on my desk, but from memory I do not think I saw it until early on the 26th. I immediately signed it and had it delivered personally by my secretary to the Prime Minister's office with the verbal information that it was important. This was backed up by the First Assistant Secretary (Defence Planning), who rang the Prime Minister's Department and also informed him that this letter had been placed there and that it was urgent. On 27th October my secretary visited the Prime Minister's assistant secretary and stressed the urgency of this letter, and she made a second copy of the letter to take on the aeroplane with them. 
It is unfortunate that, owing to the great pressure of business, this did not get to the Prime Minister before it did. It is all right for honourable members opposite, who never have been and never will be in the position of knowing what this pressure that builds up on the Prime Minister is like, to be critical. It will be recalled that the Prime Minister was under great pressure in the last few days before his departure for overseas. His trip had to be arranged at fairly short notice, and there was the China vote, the Pakistan statement and the statement on the arts. He also had to study briefs and to prepare some speeches to be made on the trip. As it happened, the letter which I had imagined would have got to him did not get to him until after he had seen the Press. I believe that this is the detail of the actions that were taken. 
Let me make a few remarks on what went wrong. 1 have not sought to hide the fact that I believe that there was a slip-up. As 1 say, the initial decision as to whether a Prime Minister and Ministers should be informed is the decision of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Once a matter has come to my Department it is for departmental officials to decide whether I should be informed. Then, if I were informed, 1 would decide whether it should be passed on further. It is all very well for us to say that a wrong decision was made. I doubt the wisdom of this decision. These are judgments of the moment which have to be made frequently during every week by departments. It is very easy to say the Department did the wrong thing. As I said, I doubt the wisdom of the decision and 1 hope the action I have taken will see that this does not happen again. 
There was nothing novel in this request. Let us face the fact that first of all we were training Cambodians. We had agreed to train Cambodians. As the Prime Minister has said and as has been said in the Defence Report' of 1971 Australian military aid to the Khmer Republic will continue this year and will include an offer of a number of places for personnel of the Cambodian Army forces at training establishments in Australia. We have been in touch constantly with the Cambodians because we know the enormous demand they have for training their forces. They have suggested certain types of training which they would like to get in Australia. They have mentioned DC3 conversions. I hope that we are still in a position to assist them in this respect. They have mentioned initial flying training, going to the officer school at Portsea, tactical training and these sorts of things 
As I said, there is no novelty in the fact that we are prepared to give instruction and assistance to the Cambodians We give them military assistance. We have given this year an amount of $&gt;1.7m, and I think that some $200,000 of this will be used for this military training in Australia. We are training troops in Vietnam. Therefore it is not a question whether we should train the Cambodians but where we should train them. We have made it perfectly clear that we will not send military troops into Cambodia. Of course, the Americans too have been training Cambodians in Vietnam for at least the last 18 months. The Prime Minister announced in his statement of 18th August plans to retain in Vietnam some military training and advisory elements, for example instructors. In addition we have recently had the visit of the Foreign Minister from Cambodia, and he discussed a lot of these training proposals. 
So we believe that the Cambodians should be helped. I think this is where perhaps we and the Opposition part company. Cambodia is a small nation which has been subjected to aggression. There is no doubt whatsoever that it has been subjected to aggression from the North Vietnamese. As was pointed out by Laird just recently in his statement in Washington, this is one war throughout South East Asia, with the North Vietnamese the aggressors. Even the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who is not known for his right wing sympathies in this place, on his arrival back from Cambodia was obviously determined to try to change Australian Labor Party policy on Cambodia He said: 
I know more now than I did at the Victorian ALP conference in June. The situation in Cambodia involves blatant clear-cut aggression. 
So he went on. He had no doubt whatsoever that Cambodia was the subject of aggression and that Cambodia should be helped. How are we to help the Cambodians? Are we to sit at home and offer up a prayer, or are we to do something about it? Of course the answer is that we should do something about it. We supply arms, we supply money for the purchase of equipment and we supply training facilities. This is not an extension of previous plans that have been laid in this area. We have heard it said that this will lead to another Vietnam. Nothing really could be more ludicrous. First of all, I have made the point that there is no intention of having troops in Cambodia. The personnel would be strictly limited to instructors, training and advisory people in Vietnam, not in Cambodia. It is just as logical to talk about training Cambodians in Vietnam causing another war in Cambodia as it would be to say that the fact we are going to train some Singaporeans in Australia could lead us into involvement in war in Singapore. Really this is a complete non sequitur. 
I have dealt with the question as to whether the request should have come from the Cambodians. I have not time in the short period left to list the number of times that the Cambodians have requested assistance. They have been in constant touch with us. On numerous occasions they have asked us for various sorts of aid. Even when I was in Saigon last December as the Australian observer at a meeting of the Asian Parliamentarians Union, my adviser and I received a number of requests from the Cambodian delegation. 1 might add that I speak French, so I was able to converse with members of the delegation, although my French is not of the highest order. 
Let us come to the substance of this matter and see it in its true perspective. The events I have already detailed led to the Prime Minister being informed later than he should have been of this request being received. But the substance of the matter is: Are we right in holding discus sions to see whether we can assist the Cambodians in Vietnam by instruction and by advice? I am sure that we are right. We need to support our allies against what Laird described as 'continued North Vietnamese pressure'. He emphasised the need for co-operation among the allies to meet this pressure. Cambodia has been a victim of naked aggression and I believe that we should do everything that we can to assist the Cambodians in their training. 
I should have thought that this matter was covered by the reply of the Acting Prime Minister who put it as clearly as I should think was necessary for the Opposition. Howeverlet me reiterate - I agree entirely with what he said - that we are really just playing with semantics here. We are talking about decisions in principle. But I issued a statement last night in which I said that at my Press conference on Tuesday I said that the question of whether we agreed in principle to training Cambodian troops had not been raised. By this I meant that the question had not been raised by the United States Embassy which had simply sought our views on discussions on the training of Cambodian troops. Cabinet discussed this matter and in the message to the Prime Minister said that it agreed in principle to the training subject to discussions and, of course, satisfactory arrangements which might come out of the feasibility discussions. Subsequently the Prime Minister held discussions with President Nixon and made a statement on the matter at his Washington Press conference. So, as I said, this is a storm in a tea cup and we are really just playing with semantics. The United States request was for the opening of discussions with the Australian Government on this proposal. The United States had not asked for a decision in principle and subsequently Cabinet discussed the matter. I was not, at the Press conference, talking of the Cabinet discussions. It would have been quite wrong for me to talk of discussions about what has happened in Cabinet and it has been made clear by the Acting Prime Minister that any future statement would be made by the Prime Minister. 
I have listened with great interest today to the debate. I will, unfortunately, have only a very short time to reply, so I do not believe I will be able reply to anything like the great number of points which were brought up. But, as far as possible, if I am unable to do so I will try to see that honourable members are informed by letter. I do take note of what the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has said. I believe it is quite impossible for honourable members coherently to discuss a defence matter in a debate of this sort in 10 minutes. As I stated earlier, it is my intention, if this is possible, that either I or the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will make a defence statement during this sessional period. Quite frankly, and I must tell the House this, I doubt that this can be done. Cabinet has already studied this matter and we are making further studies, but I would be less than truthful if I said that I believe it is likely that there will be a statement now. If there is not we will work it in in the early part of the next sessional period. We are still working on this but it does depend on the Prime Minister himself, who will probably be making the statement. 
In this short time available to me tonight let me start off by asking: What is the ultimate purpose of. our defence policy? I believe that the ultimate purpose of our defence policy is to maintain Australia's independence and, more than that, to seek to prevent or remove threats to our independence. In this our defence and our foreign policies march together. Neither will succeed without adequate armed forces. I believe that today Australia's defence forces are at the highest level of professional skills and are using the most modern equipment that this country has ever possessed in peace time. This position will be maintained, lt is not an easy position to maintain. Modern defence requires vast sums of money and planning of a very high order because the decisions we are making today affect the equipment that is to come into service in the next 5 or 10 years and which will remain with us into the 1980s or perhaps even later. It is this situation which has led to the development of our so-called 5-year rolling plan. 
Honourable members will recall that previously we had a 3-year defence programme under which we made what we hoped were going to be the decisions for 3 years but it never really worked out that way because some equipment did not come forward as expected and other equipment was substituted. But one of the troubles with this was that towards the end of the 3-year programme we reached a stage where we were not making decisions 3 years ahead but perhaps only 3 months ahead. The present programme is to take a 5-year period and to look at the equipment that is likely to be required and to fit it into this programme. To give honourable members an example of the problems that are faced in defence planning, today the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  and others drew attention to the effect on this programme of the DDL project. The situation in the Royal Australian Navy is this: We know that in 1972 one fleet destroyer will be retired. In the early 1980s two other fleet destroyers will be retired, and in addition two training destroyers will be retired in the mid-1970s. Obviously plans have to be made for their replacement. So we have a problem. Do we design and build locally or do we take possibly a lesser capacity overseas, and by doing this get probably an earlier delivery or a lower cost? Are the additional costs warranted? For example, if we increase the capability of a DDL we increase the cost. But do we increase our effectiveness to compensate for the increased cost? 
The honourable member for Wentworth said that it might be possible to have more smaller ships and to equip them with surface to surface guided weapons to get greater capability. This is the sort of thing that is being looked at and assessed by the Defence Forces Development Committee. Eventually the Government will have to decide on its programme. The honourable member for Wentworth asked whether the 
DDL would be a big sponge in a little pool. This is where we have to look at all the bids from the Services; they will have to be assessed and worked into the programme on a basis of priorities. One has to assess how much one is likely to have and therefore whether one can work in all the high priorities or the lower priorities in their order. We have these sorts of requirements coming up in the future. We know that the carrier HMAS 'Melbourne' will reach the end of its Service life probably in the early 1980s. We will, of course, have to study developments in carriers and decide whether we will go for a carrier again or on other sorts of aircraft platforms that are available. There are vertical take-off aircraft even in the fighter field. We also have helicopters. One could use hovercraft or hydrofoils in the search, for submarines. 
These are the sorts of things which have to be assessed. As well as this we know that there are other big programmes that will come forward in the not too distant future. There is the matter of replacing one of the Neptune squadrons which probably has a life of only about 5 years. A replacement will have to be considered for the Mirage during this decade. There is also the possible- acceptance of the Fill; the question of replacement for the Hercules and Macchi; a new tank requirement, and one could go on and on. Th:r one comes to a great number of smaller items, all of which add up to a considerable amount. All these competing bids must be assessed. Then it comes down to the question of whether we have the resources and how much goes on new equipment - this was a matter referred to by both the honourable member for La Trobe and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - and how much goes on the maintenance of forces and existing equipment. One has to be careful not to reach a stage where a large amount is spent on looking after the comfort of troops with a smaller amount being available for equipment. These are  th~.  sorts of decisions that the Department of Defence and eventually the Cabinet have to face up to. This is the problem we are working on. 
How does the policy of the Australian Labor Party fit in with this aim and where does it differ? I say now, and I have said it before, that I feel it is a great pity in the matter of defence and in the matter of foreign affairs that Australia, unlike some of the great countries overseas, has never been able to get a bi-partisan policy on either defence or foreign affairs. I regret this. There have been some honourable members opposite who have said that we want more defence. There have been other honourable members like the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  whose speech I listened to - this is as far as I could assess his speech - who have said that there is absolutely nothing that we are doing today that we need to do and therefore we do not require any defence at all. 
But I ask 'What is the difference between our defence policy and the defence policy of the Labor Party?' First of all, there are very basic differences. I believe that on a number of issues we are completely in agreement. In fact, some of the matters put forward by the Leader of the Opposition are already being done. But there are 3 or 4 basic issues. First of all, the Labor Party believes that we should abolish national service. The result of this would be that immediately the strength of your Army would drop to about two-thirds of the size it is today. It is said by some members of the Opposition that we would pick this up through volunteers. By increasing emoluments, immediately there would be a greater inflow and we would have an Army of the same size, but made up of volunteers instead of by a certain amount of compulsory national service. 
As honourable members know the Government has done a great deal to improve the conditions of the armed Services. Only within the last few months I made a statement here on the first 2 reports of the Kerr Committee. We know that that Committee has increased the salaries of members of the armed Services by about $30m in a year. However we have not seen until now any great effect as a result of the increase. In fact the effect on recruitment has been very minimal. It is true that there has been a slight increase in reengagement rates but in 2 of the Services the re-engagement rate is good. But of course there are other things. There are the conditions of service relating to accommodation. This is a matter which we are looking at now and it is a matter in which the Government has been very active. Houses have been built but there is still a need for a lot more to be built and there is a need to improve the standard of these houses. 
My colleague the honourable member for La Trobe is  chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation and I believe that he will soon be bringing in a report on this subject which we will be able to look at. There are also repatriation, rehabilitation and so many other things about which we are already doing much and in which we are looking at ways to improve the conditions of service. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said that the United Kingdom and Canada were able to obtain recruits without compulsory national service. It is true that some countries have done this. But the majority of countries do have national service. The United Kingdom has reduced its commitments enormously but that country has had a tradition over the centuries of fathers, sons and grandsons joining the same regiment. Canada expends a very much smaller proportion of her gross national product on defence than we do. Canada has been able to attract the numbers required apparently without national service. But if you look at even the United States of America with its quite considerable reduction in the size of its Army, it has still had to retain national service. That is the first difference between our defence policy and that of the Labor Party. 
It must be remembered that by abolishing national service the national servicemen who now go on to the Reserve would not then be available. Today we have some 40,000 people who have undergone national service and who are available for the Reserve. 
If you want to know about the Citizen Military Forces, my colleague is preparing a report for the Parliament and it will be debated. That report will reveal the work that is going on and what the Government has done about the CMF because from the point of view of recruitment it is certainly not as popular as one would want it to be. However, this is a matter which will come up separately. The Labor Party is opposed to foreignowned, operated or controlled bases in Australia. Here again the Opposition is acting in opposition to our allies and our great colleagues. Incidentally, I think it was the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who said that United States congressmen are treated at some of these bases differently to the way in which members of the Australian Parliament are treated. I can assure him that this is not so. It is true that in both the United States of America and Australia a small number of people have a need to know about and are entitled to visit these bases but otherwise congressmen and members of the House of Representatives or the Senate are treated on exactly the same footing. 
The defence of the free world would suffer through Labor Party policy. The policy of having no forces overseas would allow small nations to be overrun. It would damage the confidence in Australia's role in the Five Power regions and of course it would immediately abolish the logistic support of the ANZUK forces and would mean that we would have unilaterally taken this step without adequate consultation with our neighbours. Due to insufficient time in this debate I apologise for not answering a point raised by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  I will write to him and give him the information he requires. 
So far as Pine Gap and some of the other Australian and United States joint defence establishments in Australia are concerned, the position is that there is a limit to the very small number of people who have a need to know in this area. This applies to people who are responsible- 
Arrangements have been made to transfer from the Royal Australian Air Force to the Royal Malaysian Air Force an additional 6 Sabre aircraft. The first of these will arrive at Butterworth Air Force Base tonight and the rest will be delivered over the next few weeks. These 6 aircraft are in addition to the 10 which were given to the Royal Malaysian Air Force in 1969 and will bring the total to 16. This will increase the operational efficiency of the Royal Malaysian Air Force very considerably. It will be, of course, a gift and in addition there will be a gift of some spares. This will be over and above the defence assistance vote which is normally given to Malaysia. I believe this has been an extremely good programme. At the moment there is a small RAAF Sabre training unit at Butterworth which has been instructing Malaysians. It has been so successful that it has worked itself out of a job and will soon return to Australia. From that moment on the Malaysians will have a full Sabre squadron which they will be able to operate themselves. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details are not maintained of the numbers of school children who actually attend secondary school. However, during 1970-71, 140 RAN and 495 RAAF personnel with children between the ages of 12 and 18 years were posted between the States, the Australian Capital Territory, and the Northern Territory. Similar information is not readily available for the Army, where the conversion of personnel records to EDP is not as advanced as in the other Services. 
In speaking to this resolution, with which I believe every member of this House would wish to be associated, can I say that the men and women of our 3 Services carried out their assignment in Vietnam in the best tradition of the Australian Armed Forces. They have added lustre to a great record. All those to whom I have spoken have remarked on the extremely high standards set by our forces in Vietnam. We have become the acknowledged experts in jungle warfare and, because of this, our instructors have been in great demand not only in Phuoc Tuy but also in some of the delta and other areas as I discovered when I visited those areas with President Thieu in December last year. Many thousands of Vietnamese have been trained by our instructors. The Air Force and the Navy too have carried out difficult jobs, often under fire, with great precision and distinction. In fact, all Services in Vietnam have been loyal, dedicated and devoted and have carried out their tasks in the manner in which we would have wished them lo do, and they have reflected great credit on our country. 
We were allotted the province of Phuoc Tuy, a province with a history of underground subversion against the Saigon Government which went back many years into the days of the French occupation. At the time when our forces first went to Phuoc Tuy they found a province in which the Vietcong were deeply entrenched. In fact, at that time it was estimated that at least one-third of the population of South Vietnam and two-thirds of the land area was under communist control. The task allotted to our force was nol an easy one but both the military and the civic action assignments were carried out efficiently and with the highest standards of professionalism that kept a determined enemy away from the centres of population and markedly assisted the people and the economy of Phuoc Tuy Province. 
The young Australian servicemen in Vietnam proved to be among the finest ambassadors we could have had in such a difficult and complex situation. By their respect for local customs, by their cheerful assistance to the people in the wide ranging humanitarian civic action tasks, our servicemen earned great goodwill for Australia among the people of South Vietnam. They are among the finest young men and women that Australia has ever sent overseas to an operational area. This is a view wholeheartedly supported by this Government, by our allies and by the Australian people, lt was a sad day for many South Vietnamese when the Australians finally left. This is what was said by the Phuoc 
Tuy Province Chief at a recent handing over of a housing project to the Vietnamese: 
In the matters of fighting spirit and constructional ability, you are probably among the greatest of men. You have fought valiantly in defence of the ideal of freedom. The Communist aggressors turn and run when they hear of your presence. You are ever present in the enemy's hiding places, on the most dangerous roads and the most remote villages and hamlets. When he comes he is scared of the advanced tactics you use on your operations. You have not only fought but you have used your skilled hands to transform swamps into housing areas, you have turned jungle into prosperous villages, everywhere that you have applied your skill you brought vast improvements. 
The actions of the soldiers of the Australian Task Force are inscribed on the hearts of the people of Phuoc Tuy Province. You will always have the warmest gratitude of the people of the South and the history of Vietnam will reflect your work. You may proudly tell your relatives and the Australian people that you have sincerely used your time and mobility to help the Vietnamese people. On this occasion we request you,  Mr Ambassador,  to convey our warmest gratitude to the Government of Australia and the Australian people. Thank you. 
Our troops went to a Vietnam which was heavily infiltrated by the Vietcong and reeling from attacks by them and the North Vietnamese. It appeared that these forces were getting ready to deliver the final coup-de-grace which would overthrow" the Government and turn South Vietnam into a communist state. Had this happened it would have been wracked by slaughter on a grand scale. And what other countries would then have been over-run? Would Laos, Cambodia and Thailand have been over-run? 
Not long after our task force arrived in Vietnam one company was engaged by four battalions of Vietcong and North Vietnamese in the Long Tan plantations. The enemy suffered such heavy casualties that they never again attempted to attack in force but confined themselves to insurgency and infiltration. As well as guaranteeing the security of Phuoc Tuy Province and breaking the hold of the Vietcong tax gatherers our forces concentrated on civic action in a number of fields. These included hospitals, housing, roads, water supplies, schools, and education materials. Doctors and nurses went from Australia to minister to the sick. I am sure that this work was deeply appreciated. When he came to Australia in January  1967,  Air Vice-Marshal Ky said: 
My primary purpose in coming here is to thank, on behalf of the people of Vietnam, the people of Australia for all you have done - and are doing for us. In particular, we wish to thank those families whose sons, fathers, brothers, husbands have gone to Vietnam. We want to thank you for sending us your surgeons, your doctors, and your nurses who have aided hundreds of our citizens. We want to thank you for sending 1,500,000 text-books for our school children and we want to thank you for all the other aid. 
And above all, we want to thank and offer our sympathy, understanding and prayers for those families who have lost their loved ones on the field of battle in Vietnam. Wc know little can be said that will lessen their pain, their suffering and their sense of loss. But for what solace it may provide, I think all of us can say that the lives of not only the next generation of Vietnamese but also the next generation of Australians will be affected by the final outcome of this war. 
Air Vice-Marshal Ky went on to state: 
We are fighting for the rights which belong to every human being - the right to be left alone, the right to grow and develop in the way we choose, the right to give our people the chance freely to select the government they want. 
Unfortunately, in a war of this kind, or indeed in any war, casualties are inevitable. Our sympathy goes out to all those relatives who have lost loved ones in this conflict, and also it goes out to those who have been maimed or wounded and whose enjoyment of life may thereby have been lessened. 
Today our troops are withdrawing and leaving behind a different Vietnam from the one they went into. It is one where physical security has been vastly improved. Very much more land is under cultivation, and some of the latest high yielding varieties of crops are being grown. Much of the land is now owned by local 'tillers of the soil' instead of the previous absentee landlords. New roads have been built and today the people can travel these roads with greater freedom from harassment and illegal tax gatherers than ever before in the past decade. Hospitals, water supplies and schools have been improved and other important public service utilities upgraded. These are real achievements. They are achievements largely made possible by Australian servicemen. Our force in Vietnam has added significantly to a better life for the people in our former area of responsibility. This resolution seeks to record the Australian Parliament's appreciation and its gratitude to those who have helped to make this possible. I commend this resolution to the House. 
My attention was drawn to the statement which the honourable member has mentioned. Quite frankly, 
I was amazed. I would like to see a bipartisan policy on defence and foreign affairs so long as it was our policy. It appears that there are very many areas in which there is a wide gulf between the LiberalCountry Party policy and the Labor policy. First of ali the Leader of the Opposition, while saying recently that a Labor government would maintain about the same expenditure of resources on defence as the present Government, went on to name a figure of between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent of the gross national product. If the lower figure of 3.2 per cent were accepted this would immediately mean a reduction in defence expenditure of about $80m. This would have a quite disastrous effect on the purchase of new equipment or on the number of servicemen that we could retain in the Services. 
If the honourable gentleman had been listening when 1 was speaking during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Defence he would know that I said then that it was extremely unlikely that it would be possible to prepare a White Paper or a ministerial statement before the House rises. We have had discussions in the Cabinet on our future defence programme. These discussions disclose the fact that there is still a considerable amount of work to be done in assessing various programmes. This matter is about to come back to Cabinet again but in view of the fact that no final decision has been made it has been decided to delay a ministerial or a prime ministerial statement until early in the autumn session. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The last D Notice was issued in 1966. 
None. 
All D Notices are issued to the news media on a Private and Confidential basis. There arc no special embargoes related to particular subjects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The recommendations by the Kerr Committee of inquiry relating to pay for other ranks have involved .major changes to 4he Armed Forces pay structure, and amendments to the respective Financial Regulations of the Navy, Army, and Air Force, have been complex. The amendments are now well in hand, however, and it is expected that they will be presented to the Federal Executive Council before the end of November 1971.  ,.&lt;2) lt is therefore expected that the salary increases will be paid on the first pay day in December, which is 2nd December. 
The Government assesses regularly, as a result of the strategic assessment of our future problems and difficulties in the defence area, what the size of the defence forces should be. lt has made an assessment that it can reduce slightly this year the size of the defence forces, or of the Army, and as a result it has reduced the period of national service from 2 years to 18 months. But the decisions which the Government makes are made in the light of a great many things which are going on in this area of the world. We know first of all that there has been a withdrawal of the British influence in the Malaysia-Singapore area. This has been reduced considerably. We know a:Sc that the United States is withdrawing its service personnel in large numbers from the Vietnam area. We have also seen a build-up in the Indian Ocean pf the Soviet presence. Li the light of all these things the Commonwealth Government makes its assessment. The Government has made its assessment and believes that it is a correct one. 
The honourable member is not quite correct in saying that my Department has analysed the requests and bids by the Services: Tt is analysing them. This is a long, complicated job and an extreme amount of work has to be carried out in assessing costs of expensive items of equipment and in formulating such a plan. Cabinet has had some considerable discussions already. It will be having more discussions shortly and I believe that, as a result of the decisions which Cabinet makes, it will be possible to bring forward a White Paper early in the autumn session. 
I. am sure that the honourable gentleman would realise that this- is a matter of policy. I can assure him that it is a matter which is under consideration at the present moment, as we are looking at some possible alterations in the structure of the Army. When a decision is matte it will be conveyed through the normal channels from the Prime Minister to the Premier. 
I seek leave to make a statement on the training of Vietnamese and Cambodians in Vietnam. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious defic iencies in education, the most important areas being  a  severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as  a  result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government school are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rental paid to 30th November 1971- $US6,227,654. 
SUS 1 14m for 24 aircraft. 
Public Service: Working Hours  (Question No. 4K57) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Normal costs in Australia were - 
1967-68-$41.225m. 
1968-69- $46.342m. 
1969-70-$49.353m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron was first located in Butterworth in 1955 followed by the flying squadrons in 1958. 
Reconstruction of the runways to meet the requirements of the RAAF flying squadrons was paid for by Australia. Other 'on station' works for these squadrons were constructed at British expense and Australia paid a rental of 10 per cent of their capital value up to 1963. This arrangement was reviewed in 1968 when the rental paid to 1963 was regarded as a capital payment and Australia paid the British the balance of the capital cost of the facilities. This arrangement was beneficial to Australia. 
Subsequent to 1963 capital expenditure for the sole requirements of either the RAF or RAAF has been paid for by the respective Governments, whilst the cost of joint facilities for these air forces has been shared by their Governments in proportion to their relative interest in them. 
Although no details are held of the actual expenditure incurred by the British it is believed that the British contribution to the total capital cost of the base was of the order of Stg5.6m. 
The estimated value is $A6.9m including $A4.7m for land. 

 Major components and their value are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: j Footwear Industry: Overseas Control 
The  answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The terms combatant and noncombatant are subject to varying definitions and may well vary in meaning from country to country. It is not possible, therefore, to give precise numerical breakdowns of these categories. Philippines deployments of ground forces commenced in 1966 when a civic action force and an engineer banalion totalling some 2,000 men arrived in South Vietnam. This force worked in a non-combatant capacity until its withdrawal in December, 1969. As of October, 1971, the Republic of Korea had nearly 48,000 combat troops in Vietnam, made up to two divisions and a marine brigade. Thailand committed six transport aircraft to Vietnam in 1965 and followed with combat elements of the Black Panther Division which reached a peak force level of 11,250 in February, 1969. Withdrawal of the force commenced in 1971 and by 30th September, 1971, the force level was estimated to have reduced to 6,300. Apart from the six transport aircraft the Thai deployments were combatant forces. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) Exemptions from military service in World War II on the grounds of reserved occupation were approved by manpower authorities and were not conditional upon individual applications. Commonwealth records relating to individual exemptions were destroyed over twenty years ago. There is no evidence whether Messrs Santamaria, Mitchell or Maher were exempted from military service. 
Yes, I have seen the statement referred to by the honourable gentleman. I believe that  Mr Kirk,  the Leader of the Opposition in New Zealand, was reported as saying that New Zealand had made these arrangements and that if he became Prime Minister of New Zealand he would abide by any arrangements that had been made. I appreciate the bi-partisan approach in New Zealand politics which unfortunately we are unable to obtain in this House. However, I have some doubts as to whether  Mr Kirk  could carry out the arrangement because there would be considerable problems for New Zealand. For one thing, at the present moment Australia provides the logistics assistance to all the ANZUK forces stationed in Singapore and it would mean that if our troops were withdrawn the United Kingdom and New Zealand would have to provide the logistics support. In order to do this they would have to bring in something like 200 additional troops. In addition I believe it would be extremely likely that if Australian troops were withdrawn there would be a reappraisal by Britain which would naturally ask why it should send its troops 12,000 miles around the world to Singapore when Australia, the nearest Commonwealth country, was not prepared to have troops there. So it would be extremely likely that the ANZUK and Five-Power arrangements which have been worked out over a long period of time, and the freely arrived at agreement between these countries, would be upset in the event of the withdrawal of Australian troops. 
First I should like to say a word on what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spent most of his time speaking about, namely, the possibility of a merger or a rationalisation between the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd. The honourable member even went as far as to say that what the Government had in mind was the swallowing of the GAF by the CAC. I can assure the honourable member that this not what the Government has in mind because up to the present time it has only just received a report on the matter. In fact, I have not seen the report but my colleague, the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  has just received it. Obviously it is an extremely long and voluminous report and one which will need a great deal of consideration before any decisions are made. 
I am happy to give that assurance to the honourable member. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition would like to know what is happening with Project N. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition suggested that there had been a disagreement between my colleague, the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  and myself. Let me read to the House some of what the Minister for Air said, just to make certain that this is not so. The Minister said: 
As far as I am aware, the committee in the Department of Defence, comprising members of the Departments of the Army, Supply and Air is still meeting to see whether there is a military need for this aircraft and whether that need is in the Air Force or in the Army. 
The Minister then went on to say that the Royal Australian Air Force does not at this time have a specific requirement for an aircraft of that type because he pointed out that the RAAF has helicopters, Caribou and DC3s which are able to carry out part of its job, namely, transportation of the Army. What I have said and what I say now is that obviously much broader considerations are involved than simply whether this aircraft fits into a slot in the RAAF. 
I am sure that the situation at the moment is quite clear to everyone. Two prototype aircraft are flying. One first flew last winter and, by the beginning of February, had done about 70 hours flying. The second prototype had done about 30 hours flying. The Department of Civil Aviation certification is expected at about the end of this month. It was not until 7th February that the military flight evaluation was able to commence and this is proceeding extremely well. However, this is only one of quite a number of areas which must be examined in evaluating this aircraft. There seems to be an idea amongst members of the Opposition that the moment an aircraft flies, it can be assessed in a few weeks and orders can be placed for it. But many things must be taken into account. One, of course, is the military and the RAAF evaluation which, as I have said, is proceeding extremely well. There must be an assessment by the Department of Defence of the need for such an aircraft. It does not matter how good an aircraft may be. It might be the best aircraft in the world, but if there is an assessment by the Department of Defence and by the various Services that there is not a requirement for such an aircraft, we are not going to force the Services to take something just because it bs produced in Australia and just to provide some employment, if the Services do not believe that it has a high priority. 
After all, Australia is a country whose resources must be husbanded. We must get our priorities right. When we have had an opportunity of assessing this fully, we will see what priority Project N should have. It could well be that the DDL, the Fill and other forms of equipment may have a higher priority. I am not saying that they have. What I am saying is that an assessment must be made. It is made initially by the Department of Defence. Eventually, as ail honourable members know, every decision to purchase any form of equipment is made finally by the Government in the light of all the information it can get from the Services and from the Department of Defence and also in the light of financial and other assessments. We have to assess what are the prospects for civil sales. The Defence (Industrial) Committee has met recently and is assessing the possibilities in these fields; in other words, it is assessing the expected cost of Project N and, of course, this depends very much on the number of orders for the aircraft. If we get large sales obviously we can sell much more competitively than if we get only small sales. 
We have also to bear in mind the effect that the purchase of Project N will have on the aircraft industry generally. We, as a Government, have said we believe that there is an essential need for an aircraft industry - perhaps for a relatively small one but nonetheless a viable one. It is essential that we should have an aircraft industry because there is a lot of work to be done in the field of servicing and modifying aircraft. For example, approximately SOO modifications were made to the Mirage. Unless we have a local viable aircraft industry we will not be able to do this. The Australian aircraft industry and Australian civil firms undertake a lot of work in maintaining RAAF aircraft. So that is another matter which will have to be taken into consideration. That is the present situation. All these matters will be drawn together and discussed by the Defence Forces Development Committee, with perhaps some additions, and then a recommendation will be made to the Government. I expect that such a recommendation will be available to me by about the end of April; I hope that it will be even sooner. Allowing for delays which so often occur in these matters, I believe that I will receive an assessment of the aircraft at the end of April and we will decide whether to proceed with the production of the aircraft. 
The other matter which I want to mention is that a great deal of play has been made in the Press of the so-caller fight going on between the RAAF and the Army as to who is to fly this aircraft. I can assure the House that there is no fight of any sort because no decision has been made as to whether the aircraft will go to production. It is true that in the past certain arrangements have been made. Basically, the arrangement in Australia has been that the really light, small aircraft which were manned by the Army would be of the Cessna type. Generally speaking, these aircraft were regarded as small aircraft. They had an all up weight of 4,000 lb or less. There is no hard and fast rule in these matters. There was such a rule in the United Kingdom, but it was broken and eventually it was scrapped altogether. Today this rule does not apply in the Army because it is flying the Pilatus Porter which has a greater all up weight if it is taking off at the maximum all up weight. Project N is a larger aircraft, but it really depends on what role the aircraft will fill and who will fly it. It is true that it has an all up weight of 7,800 lb. But I can assure the House that the question as to who will fly this aircraft is not the reason for any delay in this matter. If it is decided that there is a role for this aircraft in the Army, or in one of the other Services, it will be flown and the decision as to who flies it will be made after considering who is the most suitable. But, as I say, this is certainly not a reason for holding up Project N at the present time. 
Let me return to the aircraft industry generally. The aircraft industry throughout the world is always subject to violent fluctuations. This is one of the greatest problems which the industry faces. It is either all go or no go. If the RAAF decides that it wants 100 Mirage aircraft, or some other number or type of aircraft, then it wants the aircraft as soon as possible. My colleague the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  has the unenviable task of building up the aircraft industry to try to get into production as quickly as he possibly can. Afterwards he is then faced with the period, which must inevitably follow because we will not buy the same number of aircraft constantly, in which there is redundancy in the industry, and this is an extremely difficult matter. This just does not occur only in Australia. Some of the really large aircraft corporations overseas have had their problems. At one stage even the Douglas corporation, which is probably the greatest aircraft builder in the world, experienced extreme financial troubles and it had to merge. The same problms were faced by the Lockheed corporation - again an enormous aircraft producer - and it had to seek assistance. Of course, we know that Rolls-Royce in England has faced the same problems. So these problems are faced throughout the whole aircraft industry. 
My colleague the Minister for Supply and his officers have done their best to see whether this fluctuation can be overcome. I believe that in the future we will not again go in, to the same extent, for a very large scale programme like the Mirage or Macchi programmes. I think that what we would seek to do is to get what are known as offset orders. We would seek to make in Australia a portion of the plane that we were buying, or perhaps even of another plane for which there was demand in the world. In other words, we would make a fin or a tail that is fitted to every aircraft in that particular series which is produced throughout the world. Australia might buy a few of the aircraft. In this way we would nol get this violent fluctuation in the aircraft industry which has caused and is causing so much trouble in the aircraft industry. We are doing as much as we possibly can to get the Australian aircraft industry into a viable situation. We want to have adequate work available for what I have described as a small, viable aircraft industry. I have mentioned the work that was carried out on the Mirage and Macchi aircraft. Repairs and servicing are being carried out on those aircraft and some aircraft are still being produced. 
The Jindivik is still in production. This is a remarkable plane. It first flew, I think, some 15 years ago, yet there is still a demand for it. Had it not been for the Buy American laws I am sure that we would have sold a considerable number of 
Jindiviks to the United States. As it is, we have sold some to that country, but there was some obvious barrier to their sale. 
-I should like to answer that interjection if I had time. All I can say is that we have a policy of ensuring the utmost participation of Australian industries and Australian firms in any sort of production. Obviously there are occasions on which this cannot be done. Let us look at the Fill aircraft. We could not tool up to build only 24 of those aircraft, but we can make certain parts for it, and this is what we are doing. In fact, if the honourable member for Blaxland is interested I can give him figures which indicate that the share of Australian production in defence orders has increased very markedly over the last 4 years. 
We are working hard on it and we will continue to work hard on it. But, as I say, it is not easy because certain components of a highly technical nature cannot be produced in Australia, or else Australian production is not warranted because of the increased costs. Nevertheless, I will give one example to the honourable member. We are to make a light observation helicopter. We intend making just under 200 of them in Australia. But they are costing us 41 per cent more than they would cost if we purchased them overseas. But we believe that it is worthwhile doing this in order to stimulate the Australian aircraft industry. That is another way in which we are assisting the industry. We are also assisting it by arranging offset orders, and this is particularly so in the field of American orders for aircraft. Only yesterday I received a cable from the head of the Boeing corporation concerning offset order proposals for the Boeing 727 aircraft. We hope that it may be possible to continue in this field, but even at the present moment about $5m worth of work is available to Australia under the Government's programme of offset orders. Let me conclude by saying that we are doing our utmost to maintain a viable aircraft industry. We are also producing the Ikara. My colleague the Minister for Supply has just announced a quite remarkable sale of Ikaras for $20m to Brazil. We will continue to try to keep this industry viable and to find orders wherever we can for it. 
1 did see in the Press a report that an SR71A aircraft - the socalled spy plane which succeeded the U2 - was to be stationed at Edinburgh near Adelaide. I can assure the honourable member that there is no substance whatsoever in the report. There has been some discussion between the scientific side of the Department of Defence and representatives of the United States on the possibility of carrying out research in that area, but the SR71A aircraft would certainly not be used if such research were conducted. No decision has been made to proceed with that research. However, the honourable member and any other honourable member who may be interested in seeing spy planes might watch at 8.30 tonight on Australian Broadcasting Commission television a film produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation called British Strike Command'. In this programme are photographs of Russian spy planes flying over the United Kingdom. 
I have no personal knowledge of the facts or the allegations about which the honourable member has asked his question. If he places his question on the notice paper I will see that a reply is forwarded to him at the earliest possible opportunity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The current loan period expires in May 1972. Negotiations are proceeding with the United Kingdom to purchase the 'Duchess' for conversion to an officers training vessel. 
None. The terms of the agreement under which the ship was loaned to the RAN were submitted in response to a question in the other place on 12th November 1964. (Refer page 1697 Hansard, Senate 12th November 1964). 
I think that the hoarourable member's suggestion that I should make a statement in this House is an. excellent one. I will confer with my colleagues, and in particular with the Leader of the House, to see whether suitable time is available. I will let the houourable member know at a later date whether this can be done. But in a nutshell, of course, basically the conditions in Vietnam were that in 1962 the Australian Army sent in some advisers and some instructors. As the position deteriorated as a result of Vietcong and North Vietnamese attacks, in 1966 combat troops were sent into Phuoc Tuy province. When the Australian troops arrived there they discovered the Vietcong deeply entrenched. In fact, it was said at the time that one-third of the population and two-thirds of the area of South Vietnam were under Vietcong control. As a result of the assistance given by the United States, by the Australian troops, by South Koreans and by others, the South Vietnamese have been able to build up their strength enormously. Today they have permanent forces of, I believe, 1,100,000 permanently under arms, which is an enormous army and a very strong one for a nation of that size. In addition, they have regional forces, popular forces and people's self defence forces. 
Today the South Vietnamese have a community which is politically stable and economically suitable. It is true that there is still aggression from outside. A major attack from the North Vietnamese, supported by equipment from Russia and China, is expected very shortly. However, everyone to whom I have spoken believes that this attack can be contained and that ali the North Vietnamese will get out of it will be heavy casualties and loss of most of their Chinese and Russian equipment. On the other hand, the internal insurgency situation is very much better than it was; it is minimal. I certainly hope so, because I am going there next week-end. I will certainly give consideration to the statement as the honourable member has requested. I believe that this will be well worth while. 1 might say that, in collaboration with my colleague the Minister for the Army I am looking at the possibility of the holding of some nationwide marches on Anzac Day to enable the people of Australia to pay a tribute  10  the fine spirit of everything that was done by the Australians in Vietnam. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The percentage of married Service personnel who were required to move between locations in 1970-71 were as follows: 
 The answer to the honourablemember's question is as follows: 
The methods of maintaing records of postings in the individual Services vary. The following are the postings statistics for 1970-71: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and, lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to. 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
by leave - On 9th March the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  asked me if I would consider making a statement setting out clearly for the people of Australia to see, what Australian forces went to Vietnam to achieve and, now that they were withdrawing, what they have achieved. I welcome the opportunity to do so. 
The Australian combat role in Vietnam as honourable members will be aware, ended in December of last year. In recent weeks, the Army and Air Force rear parties which remained in Vietnam to com plete the withdrawal arrangements have finished their task and returned to Australia. The last Commander of the Australian Forces Vietnam,  Major General  D. B. Dunstan, C.B.E., terminated his appointment on 6th March 1972. On the same day, the Australian Army Assistance Group Vietnam came into being to provide continuing training and advisory assistance to the armed forces of the Republic of Vietnam, and to help in the training of Khmer units in Vietnam. 
Australia's first military contribution to the Vietnam conflict was an Army training team of officers and warrant officers expert in techniques of jungle warfare. This team went to Vietnam in June 1962 - almost 10 years ago - at a time when Communist military attacks and acts of terrorism were increasing rapidly, with serious effects on the life of the country. Over 1,000 civilians were being assassinated each month by the Communists - most of them administrative officials or teachers. Infiltration by land and sea from North Vietnam was steadily increasing and the Communists were able to bring together concentrations of up to 1,000 men for attacks on government forces. The Australian training team which was built up in time to a strength of 222 men, served with very great distinction in nearly all provinces and made a material contribution to the improvement in the operational effectiveness of the Vietnamese armed forces. To this team was added in 1964 the first Air Force contribution in the form of a flight of 3 Caribou transport aircraft. This unit, which was later expanded to a squadron, provided transport support to allied forces throughout South Vietnam. 
By 1965, it had become clear that the greatly expanding North Vietnamese military presence in South Vietnam and the arming of the Vietcong with Chinese and Soviet manufactured weapons had increased pressure upon the South Vietnamese Government to critical proportions. North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces held the military initiative with some 250,000 well-trained soldiers and guerillas actively engaging the mostly ill trained and poorly organised 200,000 regular troops of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam and the 200,000 members of the South Vietnamese Territorial Forces. 
A concerted North Vietnamese campaign in South Vietnam had, by 1965, not only brought national reconstruction and development to a virtual standstill but placed the very survival of the Republic of Vietnam in jeopardy. The limited military forces of South Vietnam were clearly unable to cope. Security in the countryside bad deteriorated to such an extent that the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces through a persistent campaign of terror including the assassination of government officials and clandestine coercion, were estimated to be exerting some direct influence on 80 per cent of South Vietnam's population. 
In July 1964 the Prime Minister of South Vietnam, Major-General Nguyen Kanh in a published letter addressed to the Heads of State of 34 countries, including Australia appealed for 'all the support you deem possible and opportune in order to help us successfully fight the communist aggression'. Some months later, in December of the same year, the then Prime Minister of South Vietnam,  Mr Tran  Van Huong, in discussion with the honourable member for Casey, who was visiting Vietnam in his capacity as Minister for Air, and the Australian Ambassador, asked for an increased Australian military contribution.  Mr Huong  said the situation was now such that large-scale assistance was urgently needed from all free nations in every form but particularly military'. 
The Australian Government of the day considered this request bearing in mind the overall strategic situation in South East Asia at the time, and taking account of the likely effect on the security of the region if the Communist North Vietnamese aggression were allowed to go unchecked. It also consulted closely with the Government of the United States and other allies. The Government decided that the most useful additional contribution it could make at that time would be to send an infantry battalion group, and in an exchange of letters on 29th April 1965 between the Australian Ambassador and the Prime Minister of South Vietnam, offered to send such a force if it were requested. The South Vietnamese Prime Minister accepted this offer. 
The role of the Australian forces, like that of the other allied forces assisting South Vietnam was from the outset a limited one. Checking the destructiveness of insurgency and replacing it with progress towards security and economic and social development is not solely, or even mainly, a military task. But the restoration of military security had become essential if the normal life of the people of South Vietnam was to be allowed to develop. 
Together with our allies - the United States, New Zealand, South Korea, Thailand and the Philippines - and in keeping with our treaty commitments, we sought to help the Republic of Vietnam resist armed Communist aggression and to free its 15 million people from the threat of oppression and terror. Our aim was to help establish conditions under which the people of South Vietnam would be able to choose and develop, free from coercion of any kind, the forms of government and society which they themselves wanted. In announcing the first dispatch of Australian forces the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies said in this House: 
I make it clear that the Government has no desire to have Australian forces in Vietnam any longer than is necessary to ensure the security of South Vietnam. 
The initial battalion group, comprising about 1,500 men, arrived in South Vietnam in May 1965. Located in Bien Hoa, north of Saigon, it conducted operations with the United States 173rd Airborne Brigade against North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces which were threatening the capital. By the time the battalion completed its tour of duty in June 1966, Australia was able to expand its contribution to an Army task force with its own logistic support. This force was further developed over the next 2 years into a formation with 3 infantry battalions. A Royal Australian Air Force helicopter squadron was also dispatched to undertake transport, reconnaissance, and later close fire support for the ground forces. The Task Force included artillery and infantry sub-units from the New Zealand Army which, in the ANZAC tradition, served with distinction with the Australian forces. Royal New Zealand Air Force and Royal Australian Navy helicopter pilots also served with the RAAF helicopter squadrons. 
The self-contained Task Force with its helicopter support was given its own area of tactical responsibility in Phuoc Tuy Province, east of Saigon. Thus, although by no means the only area in which Australian forces served, the Province has a special place in the history of the Australian combat role in the South Vietnam theatre. When the Task Force and its Air Force and logistic support arrived there, South Vietnamese security forces were small in numbers, widely dispersed and not as well equipped as the Communist forces. In many areas the Vietcong had almost a free hand in coercing the population and disrupting community life. The area had a wider significance in relation to the security of Saigon because of its command over road links between the capital and the coast, and because of its potential suitability as a base area from which the North Vietnamese and Vietcong might have mounted attacks. 
Initially, the Task Force concentrated on offensive operations which destroyed the ability of the enemy to sustain operations in the area on a significant scale, or to use the Province as a major base. In the Battle of Long Tan in August 1966 the 2 Vietcong units involved in the action suffered such heavy casualties that the Communist forces avoided further major clashes with the Australian force. 
During the major operations of early and mid 1968  -  the period of the Communist Tet offensive - the Task Force was called upon to extend its operations into neighbouring provinces, where it played an important role in helping to secure the approaches to Saigon. The operation placed very heavy demands on the Australian and allied forces. At the same time this was a period when the allied forces, although under considerable pressure, inflicted a defeat on the Communists from which they have never recovered. 
After May 1969, as a result of the success of its operations, the Task Force was able to place greater emphasis on lower level operations aimed more directly at providing security for the population, on improving the capabilities of the local Vietnamese forces, and on isolating the enemy from his sources of information, food and other support. 
Side by side with military operations in Phuoc Tuy the Task Force also embarked on a civic action programme broadly directed towards improving the living conditions of the people of the Province. The Army Civil Affairs Unit, together with all units in the Task Force, engaged in a multitude of civic action tasks - the building of schools, hospitals and village dispensaries; the construction of roads, markets and village water reticulation systems; and immediate relief assistance to destitute villagers by such means as the distribution of food and clothing, medical and dental assistance, assistance in the repair of war damage and construction of refugee villages. All civic action work was carried out in co-operation with Province officials. 
The activities of the Task Force in Phuoc Tuy Province over a period of 5 years have given the inhabitants of the Province the time to develop their own security forces and to restore the fabric of administration. The Territorial forces there now number some 6,000 and have been reorganised, re-equipped and given a much higher standard of training. The agricultural situation in the Province is sound and improving; markets are working; schools are functioning; the roads are open. It would be foolish to claim that complete security has been restored. But an opportunity has been created for the inhabitants of the Province, now essentially by their own efforts, to live free from the coercion and oppression of the Communist forces. 
Outside Phuoc Tuy Province, the role of the RAAF Caribou Squadron has already been mentioned. A squadron of Canberra bombers was deployed to Phan Rang Air Base on the central coast of South Vietnam in April 1967, and from there carried out bombing missions in virtually all areas of South Vietnam. From 1967 to 1971 a Royal Australian Navy destroyer was continuously assigned to duties with the United States Seventh Fleet in the area, carrying out bombardment of enemy facilities in North Vietnam, naval gunfire support for allied forces in the South, and maritime counter-infiltration and escort tasks. The Navy also provided assistance in a number of other specialised fields such as local clearance diving, ammunition demolition tasks, and support with helicopter crews and grounds staff. 
In all, since 1962 some 50,000 Australian service personnel drawn from all 3 Services have served in the South Vietnam theatre, some of them completing several tours of service. The achievements of the Australian Services in Vietnam were not without cost. Between June 1962 and March 1972, 492 members of the Australian forces were killed or died in the theatre and 2,876 became casualties as a result of wounds or injuries. I have already paid tribute to their sacrifice, and I do so again today. 
Australia's contribution in South Vietnam was a part of the combat assistance given to the Republic of Vietnam by the United States and certain other allied countries. The combined result of those efforts throughout South Vietnam has been to bring about a major transformation of the military scene in that country. 
In 1965, most of the North Vietnamese units were operating deep within South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces, through a persistent campaign of terror including the assassination of government officials and clandestine coercion, were estimated, as 1 said earlier, to be exerting some direct influence on 80 per cent of South Vietnam's population. Today in sharp contrast communist main-force units have been forced by the military operations of the allied forces to retreat to areas on the borders of South Vietnam away from the population. The Communist local guerilla units no longer have the capacity alone to threaten the government at the provincial level. Today, although they have stepped up their terrorism they are able to coerce only a small proportion of the population. Greater security has been achieved. 
One of the successful programmes initiated by the Vietnamese Government has been the Chieu Hoi or Open Arms programme. Under it previous Vietcong members are encouraged to lay down their arms, receive an amnesty, and return to a peaceful life in their home in South Vietnam. The number who have defected to South Vietnam since this programme started would be well into 6 figures. Defections in Military Region Four - the delta area - are still running at an average of 25 a day, though the rate has been going down because of the reducing number of 
Vietcong and North Vietnamese from whom they can be drawn. One Vietnam official said to me that this programme represented the capture of 12 enemy divisions without a single shot being fired. 
The Republic of Vietnam's Armed Forces with a strength of some 1,100,000 are over twice the size they were in 1965. The Army has been substantially reequipped and re-organised, and is trained to much higher standards than before. Its new level of professional competence, together with its ability to work closely and effectively with other arms and to carry operations into areas away from its own permanent bases, have been demonstrated in recent combat experience in operations against former Communist strongholds in the remote mountainous regions of South Vietnam, in Laos and in Eastern Cambodia. For over 6 months, now, the Army has borne the main responsibility for ground operation in Vietnam. 
The competence of the South Vietnamese Air Force is also increasing immeasurably, providing in particular strong support to the Army in the field. The Navy is providing security for the vital traffic on the country's inland waterways, as well as along the coast. At the same time the territorial forces have been developed to provide new levels of local security, at village and hamlet level against harassment by guerilla raids. A new emphasis is being placed on strengthening the police in the more secure villages, in order that they can release territorial forces for service in the more threatened areas and assist the Army in its operations against communist forces. The improvement in the military situation has brought with it a marked improvement in economic conditions for the people of the country. Although the security role still has priority, the Government has been able to place greater emphasis on economic development. The Government plans to actually reduce the strength of the Army by late this year, discharging combatants from military service to participate in the economic development programme. 
By 1965 South Vietnam, a traditional rice exporter, had reached the point where it had to import rice. The disruption of agriculture had brought with it unemployment and reduced real income in rural areas. Transport and communications systems were in a poor state and industrial production was being disrupted. Most immediately, inflation had reached astronomical proportions, and had become the Government's most pressing economic problem. Further disruption was caused by the communist Tet offensive in 1968, when destruction of housing and loss of employment had calamitous consequences for scores of thousands of the civilian population. However the swift assistance provided in its wake proved effective and, with greater security, the record since has been one of progressive economic improvement. 
Very much more land is under cultivation, and some of the latest high-yielding varieties of crops are being grown. Rice production has increased substantially. Much of the land is now owned by local tillers of the soil'. Under the Government's land redistribution programme, titles for 830.000 acres were distributed to some 220,000 farmers in 1971 alone, and by the end of this year the total amount of land distributed to peasants is expected to reach 2.5 million acres. Hospitals, water supplies and schools have been improved, new roads have been built and other important public service utilities upgraded. 
People can travel the roads with greater freedom from harassment and illegal tax gatherers than at any time in the past 10 years. 
Price inflation, although still a serious problem, has been reduced to more manageable levels and economic confidence has revived. There are many signs of recovery in the towns and also in the country where farmers, with greater scope for marketing produce surplus to their own needs, have money in their pockets as well as access to credits from the Agricultural Development Bank for equipment purchases. The result can be seen in the increasing availability of consumer products and in tangible indicators of economic growth - tractors, for which some of them are able to pay cash, increasing use of fertilisers and local investment in construction. These are real achievements. They are achievements largely made possible by the security created by allied forces, including Australian servicemen. 
As a result of this military progress by the allied forces, the objective of their combat assistance has now been largely achieved. Military security has been restored to a level where the people of South Vietnam should be able to take control of their own destiny. Accordingly, since 1970, the overall level of combat assistance has been steadily reduced. Vietnamese forces have demonstrated their professional skills and effectiveness. This is not to say South Vietnam's problems are over. The South Vietnamese still face a considerable communist military threat, and the North Vietnamese continue to infiltrate men and supplies on a comparatively large scale. Our assistance in economic and military aid and through the Army Assistance Group will therefore continue. We cannot expect the South Vietnamese to win every battle, but their effectiveness should increase as they grow in confidence and strength. The important point is that the Republic of Vietnam has been given that most precious commodity, time, and relief from attacks, which were beyond its unaided strength, lt has been provided with the basis on which it is able to plan for the future with a new confidence. 
The experience of Australia and her allies in Vietnam is also of the greatest importance as a demonstration of the ability of free countries to work together to assist an individual country facing external aggression. Patterns of relations between countries, and the nature of formal international defence arrangements may change. But smaller countries such as Australia can never aspire to a military strength capable of deterring, or much less coping with, all possible levels of external threat which they could face. The concept of collective security, therefore, continues to be of vital importance to us. If we are to rely on it, as we must, in relation to the deterrence of more serious levels of threat, we must also be prepared to contribute, as we have done in Vietnam. Our aim was to enable South Vietnam to determine its own future, free from external coercion. 
The task allotted to our force in Vietnam was an arduous one. It was carried through with steadfastness and high military skill in the best traditions of Australia's fighting services. Our soldiers, sailors and airmen brought great credit to themselves and to their country. As  President  Thieu said in speaking to the Fourth Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, on board HMAS Sydney', just before their departure last December, the men of the Australian force are entitled to the gratitude of free men everywhere. The Australian nation owes its deepest gratitude to its fighting men who served in Vietnam. I present the following paper: 
Australian Forces in Vietnam - 1962-1972 - Ministerial statement, 23rd March 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper.  Mr BARNARD  (Bass) (3.52)- The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has given us a lengthy account of Australian participation in the war in South Vietnam. He has traced the growth of an Australian commitment from the initial training team of officers and warrant officers despatched to Vietnam in June 1962. Each accretion to this basic force has been carefully listed - the Caribou transport aircraft, the initial battalion group, the transfer to Phuoc Thuy province and the addition of other aircraft and naval elements. The final force approached 10,000 men, quite a considerable contribution to what the Minister for Defence describes as a limited war. The Minister went on to give a much terser account of the dismantling of this substantial task force. In effect all that remains of the Australian commitment is an Army Assistance Group. Substantially, we are back to square one with an assistance or advisory group, however you like to label it. 
The Minister gave an account of the progress of the State of South Vietnam through the conceptual lenses of the Government. These are not the lenses of the Opposition. We do not see the Vietnam struggle in the same light and we never will. We believe our interpretations of the Vietnam war have been substantially correct and that it was a very serious error on the part of the United States and its allied governments to turn a failing effort to suppress an insurgency into a major conventional war. The Minister for Defence still adheres rigidly to the conventional view of his Government - that the cause was just and that time has been ensured to give the South Vietnamese Government a chance to bring stability and economic transformation to the country. This assessment may be proved to be correct but the best that can be said is that it is open to very grave doubts. The crunch has still to come in Vietnam. Unfortunately, when it comes it seems bound to be a protracted and a very bloody crunch. 
On present indications, it seems inevitable that the final wash up will be a military campaign. All efforts to get some sort of political compromise have failed and all parties must share the blame for this. The South Vietnam Government and the United States have made the mistake of assuming they were bargaining from a position of strength. This can be the only possible explanation of the extraordinary events of last year's elections in Vietnam which ended in a walkover for  President  Thieu. The unfortunate aspect of this approach is that the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong have not been defeated in the field. Their military strength has not been substantially weakened. There is not the slightest hint that they regard themselves as a weaker party forced to negotiate. 
The Minister says that time has been given to South Vietnam to build up its military forces. Time has also been on the side of the North Vietnamese. They have had 3 years of relative inactivity, compared with the bloody years from 1965 to 1969. The cessation of the bombing has increased their resources. Their armies have been strengthened by 3 annual intakes of new recruits. Any doubt of their continued potency has been dispelled by their wide-ranging military activities in Cambodia and their ability to dominate Laos at will. The Ho Chi Minh trail is still a most effective channel from North Vietnam to Cambodia and South Vietnam. 
Despite the undoubted improvements in the South Vietnamese forces it remains doubtful whether they can withstand the full power of their opponents when and if it is unleashed. There have been repeated rumours of a major onslaught from the Communist forces in Vietnam. One source widely circulated in the United States and Australia put the offensive as certain from 9th February to 14th February, neglecting to give only the actual hours of attack. Tet has passed without any significant increase in communist activity. Now the South Vietnamese Government is contemplating an offensive in August and September. There are strong grounds for thinking that the Communists are maintaining a passive stance in South Vietnam, waiting until more United States forces are withdrawn. They retain the initiative. They can strike in massive strength when they like, and past experience has shown their mastery of timing, lt is probable that they will wait until after the presidential elections or until after all American ground combat units have been withdrawn. Of course, they will s.ill have to contend with the United States air force and the cover that the air force provides, but this has had no significant impact on their effectiveness in the past. 
No hard and fast prediction can be made about the future course of the war. There have been so many misconceptions and conclusions that have been demonstrably false in the past that only a very brave man would make any sort of prophecy. What is clear is that any solution lies with the contending Vietnamese parties. All that the process of Vietnamisation has meant is that two very powerful Vietnamese armies are now equipped and geared to continue the war. This could produce the bloodiest fighting in the course of the Indo-China struggle, making the war with the French and the American commitment from 1965 to 1969 look like pipe openers. Instead of fading away, as Henry Cabot Lodge once predicted, the war could reach a degree of intensity beyond all present conceptions. This is the gory and grisly prospect that confronts Vietnam, a prospect that is not even hinted at in the Minister's rosy account of development in Phuoc Thuy Province. 
Undoubtedly, some measure of stability has been achieved in South Vietnam and some economic progress has been made. It is more than a year since I was in Vietnam and it was my impression then that progress had been made. On this basic issue that the Minister has developed at great length in his statement, I do not disagree with his contention that basically considerable improvement has been made in this area. . It was my impression then, and I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of the Minister when he repeats that statement on this occasion. The Minister has put increased security and an improved economy in strong terms and I accept these claims. But the point that should be emphasised strongly is that this is likely to be only a passing phenomenon. All that has been achieved would be obliterated in the matter of hours if these two huge armies were again set at one another. On the present evidence such revival of fullscale war in Vietnam seems inevitable. 
The Minister put considerable emphasis on the Tet offensive. He described it as a defeat for the communists. In a technical sense this is true. But the Tet offensive did ensure the one decisive result since the 1954 armistice. It was the most significant battle of these years because it forced American withdrawal. Strategically it was a victory for the communists; it broke American will to continue a major military effort. It meant that American ground forces were withdrawn but the powerful North Vietnamese divisions remained. It was quite clear to me, as I am sure it was clear to the Minister if he talked to those who have some responsibility in these matters in South Vietnam, that after the Tet offensive there was no possibility of being able ultimately to bring about a solution of the Vietnam problem as result of a military victory. This is the point that I make in relation to the Tet offensive, and I think this was clearly understood by those who have the responsibility for the American forces in South Vietnam. 
The present situation can be summed up briefly by saying that the Americans are going, the South Vietnamese are staying and the North Vietnamese are watching. This is the result of the process of Vietnamisation which has been described in American terms as fighting a war by proxy. Vietnam is no longer a guerilla war or an insurgency. Full-scale American intervention has ended the limited dimensions of the 1950s and early 1960s. When America is gone huge armies will be left on the field, and these armies will fight on. Both armies can fight on for years if necessary. Any final result will depend on the stability of the respective governments in Hanoi and Saigon. On any sort of impartial examination the Hanoi Government has proved its capacity to survive. The present regime in Saigon has yet to prove its ability to survive without massive underpinning by the United States. This 
American contribution is shrinking rapidly. The major remaining interest for the United States seems to be the return of American prisoners. If some sort of deal can be negotiated with Hanoi on this question the United States will have played all its cards. It will retain little bargaining power and certainly little ability to influence the final outcome of the war. 
The main flaw of the Minister's picture of Vietnam is its refusal to recognise the realities of the next few years. There is only one feasible solution, and that is a political compromise embodying some form of accommodation between the two contending Vietnamese parties. This may come after many years of fighting and the further devastation of Vietnam. It may come relatively quickly through some dramatic development that cannot be foreseen at this moment. But it is not possible to see a solution in the form put by the Minister for Defence; that is, the growing strength and ascendancy of the Saigon regime going hand in hand with resignation and acceptance by the communists. 
In his account of the present situation the Minister glossed over much of the debris and destruction remaining on the ground in South Vietnam. The statistics in relation to this matter are most interesting.  1  believe they give some indication of the devastation and of the problems facing the Republic of South Vietnam. The total number of refugees or people whose homes and villages have been relocated has been estimated by  Senator Edward  Kennedy, who heads a United States Senate subcommittee on refugees, as exceeding  6  million. In  1970  hospital admission statistics in South Vietnam recorded  51,000  civilian casualties. Undoubtedly this figure understates the real position because it omits civilian casualties treated elsewhere, those not treated at all, and those who are killed outright or die on the way to hospital. According to  Senator Kennedy's  estimates, the total civilian casualties since  1965  have exceeded a million with at least  325,000  deaths. As of late  1969,  some  80,000  civilian paraplegics were listed with the Saigon Government as well as some  25,600  civilians blind or deaf from war causes. The official register also lists some  258,000  orphans and  130,000  war widows. 
In total this represents one of the greatest long-term social welfare and rehabilitation problems in history, lt involves millions of people and affects just about every family in South Vietnam. Yet the terrible dimensions and depth of this problem are acknowledged neither by the Minister for Defence nor his Government. 
The contribution Australia has made to social welfare and rehabilitation is a mere drop from the tap compared with its military spending. There is no bint that the Government recognises its obligation to heal, to salvage and to rehabilitate the hapless victims of this war. This pattern has spread beyond Vietnam to Laos and Cambodia. The familiar pattern of destruction of the countryside, the generation of refugees and the occurrence of civilian casualties is being repeated each day in these countries. Beyond these countries the burden of humane responsibility must ultimately be extended to North Vietnam which has also suffered on a scale unsurpassed in history. This should have been the compass of the Minister's results, not the familiar terms of a limited war, a limited commitment, and limited although generally successful results.  His  focus is much too narrow; he is much too ready to get away from the broader problems of the war to his own little patch of ground in Phuoc Thuy province. (Extension of rime granted.) 
In summary the Opposition supports the Minister's tribute to the Australian servicemen who fought in Vietnam. Their gallantry and their sacrifice is undeniable. This Parliament has paid tribute to these before in the form of resolutions from both chambers. We are grateful to reaffirm once again our admiration for duty bravely performed and privations nobly endured. Beyond this, the realities of Vietnam are not in any way incorporated in the Minister's cosy, fireside-chat style of approach.  His  analysis is much too simplistic; in some places it is distorted although I do not say that the Minister is insincere in his approach. This is only one of countless debates on the Vietnam war in this House. It will not be the last; quite probably we will still be debating the course of the war until the end of the seventies at least. There is little that this House can do except to ensure that no further Australian sacrifice of lives is involved. There is the added fact that much has to be done for the war victims in Indo-China and there is much more that our country can do to help. 
I want to conclude on this note. I have stressed the immense suffering in this area and the casualties involved. I believe that anyone who considers these statistics that I gave to the House only a few moments ago will appreciate that since this country was involved in a military, sense, quite improperly in the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House and I believe in the opinion of a great majority of the Australian people, surely the Minister could have taken the opportunity to stress in his statement that there is also an obligation on the Australian Government because of its participation in this war. I use the phrase 'Australian Government' in the widest sense because it involves the Australian people as well. The Australian Government has a responsibility in this sense at least to make a contribution in proportion to the resources that we have available in this country so as to provide some rehabilitation along the lines that I have suggested and which would, I am sure, be a worthwhile contribution in this period of devastation which one cannot but help feel will go on much longer than is anticipated by the Minister. 
The Minister himself reads into this a very easy solution to the conflict in Vietnam. I again stress to this House that because we have now provided in South Vietnam the means, not only as a result of this Government's contribution but also because of the contribution of the United States, to build up in Vietnam a significant army, that army is now faced by an army of very great strength in the north. In my view the position in Vietnam will no longer be merely guerrilla activities. I believe that it will erupt into a conflict on a much wider scale than ever before. I believe that the Australian Government and the Australian people do have a responsibility in this way. I regret that the Minister did not during his statement at least draw attention to the responsibility which we on this side believe we have in this way. 
Debate (on motion by  Sir John  Cramer) adjourned. 
by leave - I wish to lay before honourable members the Government's strategic outlook and the programme by which successive steps in a defence programme for the 1970s and 1980s will be taken. The Government's advisers have, for several months, been engaged in a comprehensive re-examination of the nation's strategic position. They have examined the more predictable situations in the 1970s and the contingencies for the longer term future to which we must equally address ourselves in our defence planning. The Government has already had the benefit of expert advice on some of these matters and acted upon it; advice on other matters has yet to be presented. I here refer particularly to the preparation for the Government of a recommended programme comprehending future equipment purchases during the next 5 years and the other provisions which are part of our total defence effort. I wish to say more about the programme for policy decisions on these matters later. 
I have authorised the issue of an Australian defence review which has been pre pared by the Department of Defence in consultation with the Services and other departments. It was not prepared as a policy document. Rather it contains information and analysis which will be of interest to honourable members and which, I believe, will contribute to discussion and debate upon the policies which Australia should follow. I am therefore making the paper available to honourable members. 
In deciding the extent to which it would be wise for the Government to announce decisions which in some cases would affect the level of fighting efficiency and technological efficiency of our Services as far ahead as 20 years, I have been mindful of the emphasis which our advisers place, as will be seen in the defence review, upon the importance of timing of decisions. The implications of making decisions too late need not be stressed, but the review warns against making premature commitments which, for example, could crowd out of consideration higher priority needs which would only come up for decision at a later date, or which could require us to accept equipment with deficient standards of technology. An example of the latter is methods of locating submarines. 
The first requirement is to make a reasoned definition of the Australian interests needing to be pursued by our defence policy, and of the strategic situations against which we should build our defence capabilities. It is clear that the objective must be a policy for the 1970s and 1980s. It is clear that great changes are occurring in Australia's external environment which justify a careful and progressive re-evaluation of the situation. It is also clear, I suggest, that we should not found our defence policy, or our willingness to engage ourselves to assist others, on a simple faith in the success of diplomatic efforts of mighty powers or on the benign intentions of rivals for ideological supremacy among communist powers. 
It is not enough for Australia's force structure to be built to meet only needs or threats that are explicitly definable. We owe it to the community, and to the future parliaments and governments representing them, to have in our 3 armed Services and in our industrial and scientific support an adequate readiness against contingent threats looking, in some types of equipment and works expenditure, as far ahead as the late 1980s. So far ahead - almost 20 years at the limit - it is not given to man to make predictions which can be stated as accurate; nor is it possible to suggest more than orders of probability or of intensity of threats against Australian interests. 
If it should be said that we should not make speculations of this kind far beyond the range of reasonable intelligence assessments, the answer is that decisions on long life equipment, and even longer life infrastructure of bases and docks and airfields, always carry an implicit estimate, far into the future, of the need for this equipment. Destroyers delivered in 1980 will still be in service in 2000, and the weapons fit and general capability embodied in the design must be selected accordingly. Cockburn Sound will be supporting our naval forces well into the twenty-first century and probably indefinitely. It is necessary that the assessment of contingent requirements be thorough for many reasons. Naval and air systems, in particular, are expensive and there is no going back on decisions once made. 
The statement that I make tonight is the first of several. It addresses itself primarily to the strategic issues which underlie our defence policies. The Chiefs-of-Staff and the Department of Defence are together analysing the programme which will be the physical expression of those defence policies. They will in mid-year put before the Government a recommended programme for 5 years of total defence activity and expenditure. Following consideration and decision by the Government, further announcements will be made of each concrete decision as and when required to be made. 
The purpose of tonight's statement then is to define the strategic environment which, in the view of the Government, is most likely to exist during this decade and could potentially exist in the 1980s; to describe how in general we believe Australian defence capabilities should be shaped in accordance with the responsibilities of an independent country; to make clear the Government's policy of strengthening and not withdrawing from our international defence associations; to describe the burdens and the gains and the clear balance of national advantage which we believe flow from these associations. It aims as well to remind the House of some of the perils which will arise if any Australian Government should flout our commitments or jeopardise confidence in our word or our endurance, or seek refuge from contemporary burdens by reducing the country's defence capabilities and retreating from a military role in helping to maintain the security of the external environment in which Australia is destined for all time to live. 
In our approach we intend to avoid being imprisoned in concepts that are dominated by simple formulae. Formulae may fail to reflect adequately the potential range of security problems imposed on Australia in the years ahead and the various responses which future parliaments will want to be able to choose from. It is axiomatic that the defence of Australia calls for the. best defence of Australian interests. This embraces far more than fighting in defence of Australia's territory and dependencies for by then we would be in extremis. 
Destiny places us in a part of the world where a very large proportion of mankind is subject to deep-seated causes of instability, social conflict, slow economic growth, and recurring pressures directed from outside to capture power for ideological or nationalist reasons. At the same time global military and economic power is being redistributed among the great military powers. The old certainties are not as they were in the 1950s and the 1960s. This is a fact of cardinal importance for Australian defence. It is essential to try to foresee the way in which the nations who are great in terms of military and economic power will exercise that power in the are.a of Australia's strategic concern - an area which comprehends our northern neighbourhood and the sea and air spaces of the maritime environment of Australia. 
The United States of America maintains its global balance with the Soviet Union and it has a marked superiority in strategic nuclear strength vis-a-vis China. As the Department of Defence review points out, its strength in the Pacific Ocean is vast but American resources are not unlimited and the United States Administration has set conditions for its assumption of further responsibilities. The United States, the Soviet Union, China and Japan are exploring each other's attitudes and examining the effect of initiatives taken. One may well hope that the development of the dialogue will open the way to understanding and trust which take us further away from the flash point of conflict over issues vital to great powers leading possibly to the utter disaster of global war. But we must also, in calculating how to defend Australia's interests, allow for possible developments at some time in the future in which there may be acceptance of situations which, in effect, represent a change in the balance among these great powers and which are not all beneficial to the confidence of countries in South East Asia and the South West Pacific. 
While others have preached withdrawal, negativism and isolation, the Government by positive diplomacy and defence cooperation has achieved a unique standing in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. We might remember that when a British administration in 1968-69 intended to withdraw completely from Malaysia and Singapore, Australia and New Zealand said they would take responsibilities alone. In the event British policy was changed to allow retention of a permanent force in the area and the positive attitude of the Australian Government was rewarded. From these developments the Five Power defence arrangements embracing Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and the United Kingdom have grown. 
I have recently returned from South East Asia. Nothing conveyed to me during my discussions in Malaysia and Singapore could confirm any view other than a view of the continuing relevance and importance of the Five Power arrangements, and of the significance for those arrangements of the continued presence of Australian, New Zealand and British forces in the area. The physical presence of those forces is an integral part of the only Five Power defence arrangements that make sense in the present and in foreseeable circumstances - a fact which the present British Government immediately recognised upon coming to power, and a matter upon which there seems to be a measure of bipartisan agreement in New Zealand, our close neighbour. 
It is accordingly a matter of regret to the Australian Government that, with the ink barely dried on the agreements pertaining to the presence of the forces - international arrangements which are explicitly linked to the communique of the Five Powers issued in London last April - attempts have been made to sow in the world new doubts and uncertainties about Australia's intentions as a nation. This Government's judgment is that the withdrawal of the Australian force so soon after the arrangements and agreements had been settled would seriously undermine the Five Power arrangements. It would also make it difficult, if not impossible - not only for political, but also for important practical reasons - for Britain and New Zealand alone to maintain their forces in the region. This Government does not believe in the destruction of the Five Power arrangements. Bilaterally, the Government is also conducting practical defence co-operation with Indonesia. This does not require, nor is it the wish of either Government to have, any formal defence arrangement. There is a recognition that two friendly neighbouring countries sharing common interests in regional security should, in those fields where it is within their capacities, pursue and cultivate practical co-operation with one another. 
In the present situation of uncertainty about the intentions of China and the Soviet Union, and the aggressive militancy of the North Vietnamese throughout IndoChina, and widespread insurgency in our northern neighbourhood, a positive Australian policy founded on an adequate defence effort and on defence arrangements or understandings with our neighbours may contribute to confidence and stability in the region in which we live. 
There is a duality in the requirements of a national Australian defence policy: On the one hand, we need defence equipment and manning giving Australian Services an increasing measure of self-reliance and ability to act alone in certain situations. On the other hand, we seek an intensification of our defence understandings with the United States and with our northern neighbours in the expectation that the United 
States will, as pledged to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon since the Nixon Doctrine was promulgated, provide the foundation of Australian security against threats or actual attack going beyond Australian capacity to deal with alone. 
If we are clear headed, as the Government is, we will understand that the first objective - greater Australian selfreliance - will of itself contribute to the second objective - getting the support we need from greater allies in emergencies going beyond our capabilities. The worst way to protect this country is to saddle it with forces not for any good military reason, diplomatic reason, or economic reason - but to satisfy party ideologists. To lay stress on dangerous contingencies against which Australian defence efforts must steadily prepare over the longer term is not inconsistent wi.h the hopes entertained by the  President  of the United States of progressively negotiating understandings which will reduce tensions among the 4 great powers: The Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, the United States and Japan - and particularly among the 3 great military powers in this group. 
What seems evident from the diplomacy exercised by all these powers over recent months is that there is a new fluidity in which new relations may be formed, and if old security dangers recede some new ones will take their place. The first requirement is for Australian diplomacy to address itself to these matters, and it is not my function to speak of this. But it is, I believe, an essential ingredient of Australian diplomacy that Australia should be understood to be a country whose security interests are growing; whose population and wealth are growing; and whose determination to take some part in shaping the environment in which we live is more lively than ever now that the great western powers have served notice that their involvement in lesser situations is not to be taken for granted. 1 have not the slightest doubt that the United States commitments to Australia under the ANZUS Treaty are as strong and effective as ever and it is my belief that it is the responsible attitude of this Australian Government towards the eco nomic growth and the military security of this region that have contributed to maintaining this undeviating attitude. 
But we are a sovereign country pursuing independent foreign policies and the best assurance of an independent policy is that future parliaments and governments should not be influenced in their policies or responses to situations by fear of our inability by military means to deter interference with us. It is, of course, no part of Australian defence policy to prepare for massive defence by ourselves - whether by conventional or nuclear means - against an onslaught by one of the great military powers. This would be quite beyond our capacity and we should look to, in particular, our American ally in the contingency - judged unlikely in the foreseeable future - of this situation arising. 
What can be achieved by a defence programme giving us the ability to project Australian armed strength beyond our continental shores is twofold: It will give future governments options to have some influence on events in our strategic environment so that we may contribute to the greater security of all countries in that area. It will give Australia the ability to deter direct interference with our interests except at a certain cost. 
The accompanying defence Review which I am presenting suggests situations in relation to which, irrespective of present requirements for action, this Government believes that it must retain military capabilities adequate in quantity as well as in quality. 
In South East Asia the impact of subversion and insurgency has been restricted by massive sacrifices of men and material on the part of many countries - not least the states of Indo-China under attack from North Vietnam. But the elimination of both subversion and insurgency continues to demand, in at least 6 countries, very great efforts on the part of the governments concerned. 
Success will not be achieved quickly, nor will it be achieved by military means alone. But when men take up arms to destroy a government or to render ineffective the administration of wide areas of a country it is a practical fact that one of the means which the government concerned will employ to suppress this violence will be military. It is also a practical fact that where insurgent violence is evidently nourished and supported from beyond the frontiers of the affected country then the interests of all neighbouring countries are more or less affected by the resultant threat to security. 
The Australian Government would, of course, prefer that Australia not be involved in insurgent situations in South East Asia at all. It is necessary however that, if the national interest in so doing is clearly identified, Australia should have the physical capacity to become involved if an emergency should arise, externally supported, and beyond the capacity of the threatened country to deal with unaided. It is necessary that Australia should have the practical option to provide - for the armed forces of its neighbours, where they are subjected to such threats emanating from beyond their border - the kind of support which will enable those local forces to acquit themselves most effectively against their adversaries. 
The Government intends to maintain forces which keep these practical options open for the future. It rejects ideological arguments that we should decide in principle today to disqualify ourselves from helping our friends at some future date. It rejects so called pragmatic arguments Which would suggest that there is nothing in the military field which Australia could do to help its neighbours against insurgency. Within the limits determined by particular situations as they arise, it will retain the physical capability to do what is required. It believes that only if it preserves these practical options and thus preserves too the evident political option to support its neighbours will its military capabilities support its diplomatic and economic efforts in its environment. 
I turn now to the Indian Ocean. The Defence Review refers to the Soviet Naval presence in the Indian Ocean and points to the present and potential strategic importance of this new manifestation of power. Let me make one thing clear. The Government does not regard the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean as, in present circumstances, a direct military threat to Aus tralia. It does regard it as a weapon in a Soviet diplomatic offensive in the littoral states, including those states from which vital petroleum supplies are obtained. It does not consider that this increase in Soviet influence would tend to an improvement of Australian security in time of war or to the pursuit of more independent foreign policies by Indian Ocean states in times of tension. History has demonstrated clearly that the USSR is not averse to exploiting any opportunities for political and economic leverage. 
Soviet naval power in the Indian Ocean poses the possible need for other nations to deploy forces to the area. It facilitates the gathering of intelligence covering Australia or our allies. Our response has been to encourage a Western re-action to this pre.sence adequate to demonstrate to the countries of the Indian Ocean that that ocean does not and will not become a Russian preserve and that Western interests there remain positive and will be secured. To the allied responses the Australian Government has contributed positively by offering the co-operation of our maritime forces in surveillance and by improving and making available to our allies military facilities that will assist them. Our action in this regard has been warmly welcomed by our allies as a positive contribution to global security. It will be pursued vigorously - and not least in the progressive development of Cockburn Sound for the support of our allies and as a major facility for the improvement of Australia's own naval capabilities. 
China's military power is of growing rather than lessening importance in Australian security. The Chinese nuclear armoury is already substantial enough to be taken into account by both of the super powers. The fact that Australia is not a nuclear power and has every desire to remain non-nuclear does not confer upon us some invulnerability. On the contrary it confers upon us a need to contribute as a non-nuclear power to the maintenance of the global nuclear equilibrium which is sustained by the United States. In this policy there is no provocation unless our very alliance with the United States is held to be such. I do not believe that there are any in this Parliament who would suggest that it is. To help to prevent a nuclear war is, we believe, consistent with our first and highest national interests, with our alliances - including our obligations under those alliances - and with our international obligations generally. 
I want to return, however, to the subject of China, whose military inventory contains a good deal more than nuclear weapons. The Defence Review has pointed to the expansion of China's conventional naval and air forces and to the modernisation of all three of the Services. While these forces are organised today essentially for the defence of China's borders, they already possess some offensive potential and it is clear that this capability will be developed further. As to the intentions of the Chinese Government there are as many predictions as there are experts. Australia is concerned no less than any other country to sustain and develop the more conciliatory international attitudes of that Government. But Chinese military capability is a factor which cannot be ignored in considering Australian security. 
I wish to say something of Australia's defence obligations in Papua New Guinea. Our hope is that Papua New Guinea will advance in security and stability through the pre-independence period and through all the years which follow independence. We have contributed unstinted efforts to ensure this and we have high confidence in it. We must, however, recognise the contingency that in some way or in some measure the future security of that country might be threatened. The Government's view is that this and future governments must be provided with the means to act militarily in support of the Papua New Guinea Government if the need should arise, if our help should be sought, and if we should wish to respond. 
Before considering the kinds of forces needed by Australia in the future I should like to remind honourable members of the size, capabilities and competence of the forces we now have. The situation is vastly different from that of 10 years ago. During the 1960s public attention has been focused, quite naturally, on the commitment of our forces in Vietnam and on the operations and achievements of those forces. What has perhaps been insufficiently appreciated is the major expansion of Australian defence capabilities which has been brought about by the decisions of this Government and its predecessors over the past decade. 
In this period the strength of the permanent forces overall has been increased by some 69 per cent from 48,000 to 81,000. The Army strength has virtually doubled, new equipment has been taken into service, additional battalions have been formed and a structure established which has enabled us to sustain over a period of years a task force of 3 battalions and supporting arms in combat operations in Vietnam. The Navy strength has risen by 55 per cent from 11,100 in 1962 to 17,200 today. In that period HMAS 'Melbourne' has been extensively modernised and has been reequipped with new aircraft in each of the reconnaissance, strike and anti-submarine roles. Our escort fleet has been almost completely modernised with new ships. A submarine arm has been re-established and is being built up to 6 boats. A patrol boat force has been established. New fleet support and research ships have been commissioned or are building. 
Similarly in the Ah Force, strength has been built up by some 43 per cent over the last 10 years to its present level of 22,700. When the Fill aircraft are brought into service next year the Royal Australian Air Force will have been vitually re-equipped with modern aircraft in each of its main roles - strike, tactical fighter, maritime reconnaissance and strategic and tactical transport. In bringing into service these new and more advanced types of equipment, each of the Services has vastly expanded and modernised its technical and supporting and maintenance establishments. Today we have substantial and effective fighting services in being, well equipped and with good morale. This is a sound base on which we can proceed with confidence to the further improvement of our defence capabilities. 
I turn now to requirements for the future. Timing of decisions for the progressive modernising and reshaping of the forces is a complex matter. We must first consider strategic need. We must take into account when existing equipment will come to the end of its operational life by attrition or by obsolescence. We must examine the lead time for the acquisition of new equipment, and this may vary from a few years to 5 years and more in the cases of the more complex items particularly if developed in Australia. We must establish when new technology will enable us to obtain weapons systems suited to our requirements and with the substantially improved performance which would justify the replacement of equipment presently in service. 
With the ending of our combat involvement in Vietnam we have an opportunity to give greater weight now to long term factors in the shaping of our forces, and to move progressively to a national defence capability appropriate to the demands which might fall on us later in this decade and into the 1980s. We shall in the first instance, as I have already said, need forces which give us a greater independent capability so that we may be more selfreliant in protecting our own interests, and in dealing with lesser military situations. Greater self-reliance will also enable us to co-operate more effectively in security matters with our neighbours, who are disposed to look to Australia for co-operation and assistance while they are developing their own forces. It is in no sense in conflict with our expectations of assistance, under ANZUS, if a major threat to our security should arise. Rather, as I have already indicated, greater self-reliance will equip us better to play our part in ANZUS. Greater self-reliance has many aspects. It means a general level of competence in defence which enables us to develop and evaluate concepts and equipments related to our own national needs. It means more selfsufficiency in combat and support arms where we might previously have looked to allies - for example in some aspects of tactical air support or specialised sea lift or in afloat support for our Navy. In the further development of our forces we need to keep under constant review the balance between land oriented capabilities and maritime oriented capabilities. 
The ratio between expenditure on capital items and expenditure on the maintenance of the forces is always a critical element in defence programming. There is a need during the mid and later seventies to spend very substantial sums on modern weapon systems and capital installations and facilities which represent long term investment in defence capabilities. We will develop our ability to give defence aid and cooperation over a wide spectrum of training, technical assistance and support and equipment for our regional allies or friends. Australian training schools have a deservedly high reputation, and our military competence is acknowledged in South East Asia. Our object must be the further development of the military capabilities of our friends in the region. We assisted the Malaysian Air Force through the gift of Sabre aircraft and an extended training programme. A similar programme is now under discussion for Indonesia. The Royal Australian Air Force has played an effective role in helping to develop a Bloodhound Missile system as an essential part of Singapore's air defence. 
We must of course at all times ensure the progressive development of an organisational and, as necessary, physical base for the mobilisation of the nation's manpower and material resources for war. This requires, among other things, the maintenance of appropriate reserve forces for all 3 Services. 
These requirements have implications for all 3 Services. The Navy and the Air Force are concerned with the preservation of the security of our general maritime environment and with freedom of navigation. They must have a capability to engage in surveillance in the region, in flag showing, and in combined exercises, coordinated with allied activity, in the ocean areas surrounding Australia. There will be a requirement for in-shore operations, including coastal and seabed surveillance and the protection of fisheries and support of the civil authorities. There will be a continuing requirement for strategic and tactical transport forces, both air and naval. Naval escort capabilities relevant to a wide range of roles are required in all probable, and in most contingent, situations. There will be a need for naval forces with an attacking capability; the composition of these forces requires further study. 
The general trend for the Army should be toward maintaining a regular force, versatile and highly trained, mobile, taking full advantage of military skills and technology, and supported by reserve forces with the potential for expansion should the situation require this. The Army must maintain a capability to deploy and sustain in operations a task force of 3 infantry battalions and with adequate independent capability for combat and logistic support. This will require the maintenance of a regular Army in the vicinity of 40,000. In present circumstances this strength could be sustained only by the retention of the national service scheme. In the case of the Air Force, the requirement for a strategic strike force is confirmed by our advisers. Maritime reconnaissance and strike capability is required. There will be a continuing need for close air support, including (he possible acquisition of specialised aircraft for this purpose. There will be a continuing need for air defence capability. 
On the basis of these considerations the Chiefs of Staff and the Department of Defence are currently together analysing some 70 larger weapons systems and major equipments on which decisions are said by the initiating Service to be desirable in the 5-year period 1972-73 to 1976-77- although delivery and payment would, in many cases, be spread over many years later. The equipment proposals under study are closely related to the foreseen end of life in the latter part of this decade of some of the defence capabilities now in service - such as the aircraft carrier 'Melbourne' and its helicopters, Neptune long range maritime aircraft, anti-aircraft guns and tanks and many more such cases. 
The recommendations of our advisers will come before the Government for decision in the mid year. It is not intended that all the equipment referred to should be decided on then. The Government will then take only those decisions which should be made in the first year of the programme. Other purchases and provisions will not be decided in detail because it is the essence of programme planning not to freeze decisions prematurely. For example, we must remain sensitive to strategic changes. Negotiating positions with suppliers must be preserved and technological developments watched before finally selecting equipment. 
I have made reference to the structure of our forces and to future equipment needs but we must always be conscious of the vital importance of the individual serviceman. We must seek in all Services a high degree of individual and corporate professional competence and motivation. Effective training, job satisfaction, adequate remuneration, status, proper recognition and provision for families are some of the factors in producing an effective fighting force. The Government's understanding of the needs of the serviceman under today's conditions, and deep concern for the welfare of members of the Services, are reflected in the many improvements already made in conditions of service, as well as the further improvements which are under active study. 
Honourable members are aware of the work of the committee headed by  Mr Justice  Kerr which has made a comprehensive review of the fundamental conditions of service in the forces. All of the recommendations made to date by the Kerr Committee have been accepted by the Government. In addition other matters are under examination, including the review of the defence forces' retirement benefits scheme by a parliamentary select committee, and the future machinery for the assessment and determination of Service pay and other conditions of service. The Government is not merely concerned with the remuneration paid to servicemen, important though this is, but we endeavour to improve the status of the serviceman in the community, to increase his job satisfaction, and to minimise his disabilities, while recognising that there will always be distinctive features of Service life, particular attention is being given to the improvement of Service housing, both as to standards and numbers. It is a matter of great satisfaction to the Government that so much has already been achieved in respect of improved conditions of service, and that this is already being reflected in improved recruiting and retention rates in the Services. 
We need a progressive and long term development of base, communications and support facilities to serve Australia and its allies, co-ordinated where appropriate with civil development. These are the costly long term assets such as dockyards, airfields, barracks, storehouses, training establishments and research facilities which cannot be. created at short notice and which represent an investment for use in contingencies we cannot presently foresee. Many major decisions have been made already. Work is proceeding on the naval support facility on Garden Island at Cockburn Sound, which will serve our own forces and which we expect will be used by our allies. The first major stage will be completed in 1975. There have been major extensions to the RAAF base at Learmonth, Western Australia. The army aviation centre is being established at Oakey, Queensland. The Government has approved major works at the Jungle Warfare Training Centre at Canungra in Queensland. Plans are being developed for extensive works at Townsville and Amberley air bases, Army task forces bases, and the naval dockyard and shipbuilding facility at Williamstown, Victoria. 
The Government will continue to foster defence industry in Australia. As the result of the application of this policy we have already become largely self-sufficient in items of basic equipment, such as ammunition, small arms and general stores. We will in addition, in areas of higher technology, but of necessity on a selective basis, put into production in Australia an increasing number of those items which are strategically important. Where total production in Australia is not practical, we will continue to seek opportunities for Australian industry to participate in partproduction or, if this is not practicable, in offset or reciprocal purchasing arrangements with the overseas supplier. A particular area of project activity which we are actively pursuing is that of collaborative programmes, involving Australian participation with an overseas company in the joint design and production of equipment required in both countries. The extent to which actual contracts will result from these opportunities created by Government initiatives must ultimately depend upon the efficiency and competitiveness of our defence industry. We will, of course, continue to look for situations where the skills developed against defence requirements have a value in accelerating the technological growth of other segments of industry. 
In the time available to me this evening I have only been able to select significant aspects of Australia's situation and some of the Government's policy intentions. Other issues not calling for Government decisions now are set forward in the Defence 
Review in the terms in which our advisers see them. Before I conclude I return - to one matter of overriding importance to the security of Australia and many other countries. I refer to the response which the Government believes we should adopt to the continuing defence burdens which are borne by the United States. The Government will continue to give defence cooperation to the United States. We will not impose doctrinaire conditions that would undermine the strategic mobility and the capacity for swift reaction by the United States against its adversaries. These 2 elements are the foundation of the deterrent system upon which the  President  of the United States is trying to develop understandings between the Americans and the Russians. They are the foundation for maintaining an effective balance of power in relation to a nuclear arming China - a consideration of great concern for Australia in the years immediately ahead as will be seen from the description of the subject in the Defence Review. Nor, in the Government's view, should we permit disclosure of technological military secrets to undermine such advantages in the strategic balance as the United States may possess. 
These are serious matters for the future security of smaller countries like Australia. I would like to say something further about the United States. The cost of keeping up the deterrent and general defence capacity borne by the American taxpayer and economy have been and are of prodigious size. We are aware of the arguments and pressures inside the United States against present levels of defence spending and defence aid. There are no comparable restraints on the growth of the mobile strategic strength of the Sovietnor on the unannounced expansion of the land, maritime and nuclear forces of China. This is not a time for carping or sniping about American defence policies. It is, I suggest, a time to acknowledge the debt which Australians, among others, owe to the United States for the burdens it is still carrying 30 years after Pearl Harbour and after that great country's acknowledgement of its leadership role which it has performed steadfastly since. I present the following papers: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although they are not 'United States defence bases' the Joint Defence Space Research Facility (JDSRF) at Pine Gap and the Joint Defence Space Communications Station (JDSCS) at Nurrungar, near Woomera have been included in this reply as it is assumed that the intention of the questioner was to include them. (1), (2) and (3) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Overall casualties of Australian Forces in Vietnam to 31st March 1972 have been 3,628. 
and (3) These casualties comprise - 
The decision to purchase the Fill aircraft was not a political decision. It was a decision made as a result of a world tour by a team of Royal Australian Air Force personnel who recommended 4 types of aircraft for consideration. It was quite obvious at the time that the aging Canberra aircraft had to be replaced and in accordance with this recommendation the Government decided, and decided very correctly, that it should replace the Canberras with the Fill. The Fill aircraft are now starting to be reworked and will be available between April and November 1973. The cost, of course, has escalated as has the cost of everything else, not only in the defence field but in many other fields, but the cost escalation of the Fill has been considerably less than in other fields. In fact Australia has a fixed price per aircraft of $5. 95m and this will be less than the cost to the United States Air Force. So Australia has an extremely good bargain. I am informed by all the people who advise the Government that the Fill is still by far the best aircraft available in the world. 
 On Tuesday afternoon this week, a matter of public importance was discussed in this House which stressed the need for the Government to make a statement on the 'Plight of the People of South Vietnam in their courageous defence against the blatant invasion by North Vietnam and its serious implications for the security of Australia'. At the outset, I think I should stress that the Government and, I am sure, the vast majority of Australian people express their horror at the naked aggression of North Vietnam against the people of South Vietnam and extend their sympathy to the people of that war ravaged country who are the victims of brutal attack aimed at escalating a war that was in the process of being de-escalated. 
Like South Vietnam, we are not a major power. The physical aid that we can give is limited. We had combat troops there and, like the United States, we withdrew our combat troops not only because we believe the need for them has passed but also because we believed that by so doing we were contributing to a de-escalation of the war and preparing the way for a political and not a military solution of the problems of Indo-China. During the 4 years since Tet 1968, social and economic conditions for most of the people of South Vietnam have steadily improved. This is a matter of fact. The guerrilla network, although not destroyed, has been debilitated. The Government has been able gradually to increase the degree of security it could afford the villagers against the threats of coercion of the Vietcong.  Sir Robert  Thompson, a man who has had considerable experience of Vietnam, tells of villages where the membership of the local home guard were ex-Vietcong to a man and are now loyal to the Government. On the economic front, although enormous problems remain, great progress has been made. Inflation has been brought within manageable limits. Progressive economic measures have been put in train. Progress has been made in land redistribution. Politically, despite the imperfections of the South Vietnamese electoral process in Western eyes, free elections have been held, for local governments as well as for the national government. This is a matter of fact. All the efforts of hostile critics have been unable to substantiate accusations of serious irregularities. A degree of political stability has been achieved. 
The situation now is that the North Vietnamese invasion has brought full scale war to thousands of South Vietnamese villagers. The North Vietnamese are trying to destroy what has been achieved. Refugees are in flight and it surely is significant that they are fleeing to the protection of the Government. Although battles, initiated by the North Vietnamese, at present affect only a very small proportion of the population, the threat is there for many more. At best, doubts will arise about the Government's ability to protect them. The economy must be affected to some extent, in the short run at least, and with it the livelihood of the people. On the communist side, the Vietcong cadres are likely to increase their efforts towards terrorism and assassination. In short, after a period of comparative quiet, the war, with all its effects, is being carried by the North Vietnamese back to the South Vietnamese people. 
Pitiable efforts have been made recently to try to fool the people into believing that what is full scale aggression by North Vietnam on South Vietnam is not really aggression at all. In Tuesday's debate apologists for the North Vietnamese attempted to show either that there was no aggression by the North or that there was aggression by both sides. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  stated in his speech that the Government claims North Vietnam invaded the South. The Government does not claim this; it knows that North Vietnam invaded the South. Other speakers asked what constitutes aggression. They asked whether the dropping of bombs in North Vietnam by B52s was not just as much aggression as attacks on South Vietnam by the North Vietnamese Army. Aggression means unprovoked attack. The attack by the North Vietnamese on the South is unprovoked attack. The bombing of North Vietnam by the Americans is retaliation following unprovoked attack from the North. It is playing with words to say that both sides are committing aggression. 
Let me put the Vietnamese situation in simple and incontrovertible terms. Throughout the sad and long drawn out struggle there has never been any threat by ground forces against North Vietnam. I repeat: North Vietnam has never been threatened by ground forces. Invasion of North Vietnamese air space has been directed solely and specifically at bases and supply lines from which North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam were maintained. The United States started on its withdrawal of ground forces. We withdrew ours. The bombing ceased. What was the reaction? The North Vietnamese launched a full scale invasion of South Vietnam. An attack was launched, not under the disguise of a people's liberation movement, but formally, with regular army divisions. And what has been the reaction in Australia? The peace lovers of the Australian Labor Party turned from being advocates of peace and a political settlement into being supporters of the North Vietnamese aggression. 
What the peace lovers in the ALP, who show that they have a majority in the Victorian State Council of that Party, are advocating is a bloodbath greater than any produced by the South Vietnam conflict so far. I do not wish to be over-dramatic, but I have in my possession a film. It is a terrible and terrifying film. It shows the opening of a mass grave in Hue, a town occupied by the Vietcong for a fortnight during the Tet offensive. There were 6,000 bodies in that mass grave  -  6,000 in a fortnight. How many would this be in our lifetime if those whom the ALP in Victoria support established, by force of arms, a communist regime? If there are any members of the ALP who will not be convinced that the kind of settlement by military conquest now being advocated by some members of the ALP would produce horrors greater than those of the Vietnam war, I invite them to see this film. 
So, I say quite categorically that there is aggression. This aggression is being exercised by the North Vietnamese against the South Vietnamese, against Laos and against Cambodia. It is quite ludricrous. as claimed by one ALP spokesman on Tuesday, to suggest that Vietnam is one country and that 'therefore troops can be moved from the North to the South without constituting aggression. My colleague, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  pointed out very logically that this same theory could be applied to East and West 
Germany or to North and South Korea. If in either of these cases, troops were to cross the frontier there would be war immediately. The same applies to Vietnam. For 18 years there have been 2 separate Vietnams - one controlled by a communist government and one controlled by an elected government. The theory that the war in South Vietnam is a civil war is obviously quite untenable because of the manifest presence of 15 North Vietnamese regular division either in South Vietnam or in the neighbouring countries of Laos and Cambodia. 
The fact is that during the past 300 years there has been only one substantial period when Vietnam was united under one ruler and that was the period of 82 years between 1802 and 1884. Whatever the historical case, however, the present situation is that since 1954, North and South Vietnam have developed along entirely different lines with the result that today there are 2 separate and distinct states, with entirely different social systems, economic systems and ideologies. If we are to condone aggression by North Vietnam on the grounds of past relations, then surely we should have to condone the 1950 aggression of North Korea against South Korea, any new attack by North Korea and even any attack by East Germany on West Germany. What nonsense! What utter humbug! Members of the ALP have stated that there was aggression in South Vietnam. But of course they were shortly afterwards pulled into line by the Party machine. For example, a report in the Melbourne 'Age' of 26th May 1967 reported that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  when returning from a visit to South Vietnam, said he was satisfied that there was a large scale invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnamese troops. He said he was satisfied that this was more than just a guerrilla war and he said he supposed it could be compared with the earlier conflict in Korea. Similarly, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 24th July 1970 as having said that the situation in Cambodia involved blatant clear cut aggression. He went on to say that the North Vietnamese were committing aggression in Cambodia and it was aggression as blatant as that of the Germans in Belgium in 1914 and 1940. 
But tht ALP has 2 policies in this field - a political one and a personal one. I know that the ALP's official policy is for a political, not a military, settlement. I have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  set out that policy in this House. But quite deliberately I accuse the Opposition of being two-faced on its policy. Take the position of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He poses as the great peace lover. For years he has been telling us that all he wants in ravaged Vietnam is peace. He has indicated that all that stood between Vietnam and peace was the presence of foreign troops. He disregarded that those troops were there at the invitation, indeed the request, of the Vietnam Government- 
... and were fighting alongside South Vietnamese seeking only a right to self determination. 
I desire to take the opportunity tonight to reply to some remarks made late on Thursday last by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  Unfortunately I had no knowledge that the honourable gentleman intended to speak about that matter so I now take the first opportunity to set the record straight. The honourable member said I was incorrect when I said that Australia has a fixed price per aircraft for the Fill aircraft of $5.95m and that would be less than the cost of the same aircraft to the United States Air Force. The honourable member could easily have obtained a copy of a statement which I put out on 16th December last outlining in full the costs associated with the Fill project. In that statement the honourable member would have seen that the basic cost per aircraft is $5. 95m. Of course, for 24 aircraft the total basic cost would be $ 142.8m. Escalation which occurred between 1965 and 1968 adds $24. 8m. Configuration changes made, including heavier undercarriage plus extended wings, added $3. 8m. Modifications - there have been some 100 modifications which have improved this aircraft enormously - totalled $35m. This brings the total cost for 24 aircraft to $206.4m. 
That cost is fly-away cost, making the cost per aircraft $8.6m. The honourable member for Blaxland has mixed up the fly-away cost with the project cost. The total project cost, as previously announced, is $334m. That total is arrived at by adding to the $206.4m the cost of spares, $58.8m, ground support equipment and other support costs, S64.3m and a contingency of $ 14.6m. Honourable members will be aware that spares usually cost about half the total fly-away cost of aircraft. The honourable member for Blaxland suggested that the $3 44m is not a total or final cost and to that should be added the cost of the leased Phantom aircraft. I cannot understand how he seeks to add to the cost of the Fill aircraft the cost of hiring the Phantoms which were leased as an interim measure. The Phantom aircraft have provided the 
RAAF with a most useful interim capacity and when the Fill aircraft are delivered the Phantoms will be returned. 
The honourable member said that the RAAF is pushing for the acquisition of a tanker. It is quite wrong to suggest that the F111C needs a tanker to satisfy range requirements. The FI 1 1C as it is more than satisfies Air Staff requirements. It does this in range both with and without external tanks and it satisfies Air Staff requirements as to speed and bomb load. It is true that if we had a tanker the performance would be even greater, for 2 reasons. The aircraft could take off with a full bomb load from a small airfield and be refuelled in the air or alternatively it could be refuelled in air to give it incredible range. However without a tanker the specifications of the RAAF will be more than met. It is true that the Air Force is examining the question of replacing the C130A Hercules aircraft. Naturally when examining this sort of thing all aspects are considered. One aspect is whether we could get an aircraft with a transport role which could quickly be transformed to a tanker role. When the time comes this will be assessed and a decision made. If a decision is made to obtain a tanker the performance of this extremely good aircraft will be very fine indeed. To suggest that the cost of a tanker should be added to the overall project is quite wrong. 
The honourable member said that the Fill is not a strategic deterrent without its nuclear bomb. To try to prove this he read from an article in a United States Armed Forces Journal' and he endeavoured to denigrate the Fill. In fact the article, entitled 'The Swing Wing May Surprise You Yet' is most laudatory about the Fill. There is no conflict whatsoever between the statements made by the Government and those reputed to have come from the United States Commander-in-Chief on the so-called shortcomings of the FU IB range and payload limiting its performance from a strategic point of view. There is no conflict between that and the fact that for the particular role for which the RAAF is purchasing this aircraft, it is undoubtedly the finest aircraft in the world today, and will fit in extremely well with our requirements. I should like to quote some of the things which the honourable member did not read from the article to which he referred. The article said: 
Based on current experience with the Fill and other aircraft in SEA it required 5.91 Phantom sorties to attain the target damage obtained by a single Fill. 
Despite the cost and problems associated wilh the Fill it still stands alone as the best aircraft yet developed for night and bad weather attack missions deep inside enemy territory. It is unique in its  unrefuelled  range capabilities. No other fighter in the world can cross the Atlantic  unrefuelled  which means that the Fill alone can be rapidly deployed almost anywhere in the world without waiting for tanker support. 
There were other parts of the article which the honourable member did not quote, obviously because they were favourable to the Fill aircraft. It is easy merely to pick out unfavourable things and quote them. The article said also that one Air Force officer involved in the Fill programme had said that the FI 1 1 would look like a bargain in a few years. The article goes on to say: 
It carries more bombs than any other fighter and surpasses all other known fighters for automatic navigation accuracy, weapons accuracy, maintainability and short or rough field operations. As a single ship attack aircraft it can operate as no other can without extensive air cover, tanker and electronic counter measures support. In addition it has a 24-hour attack capability in bad weather, giving it an 80 per cent advantage over other aircraft in the  Europoean  theatre. 
So there is no doubt whatsoever that we are getting a bargain. Finally, the honourable member for Blaxland said that when we ordered this aircraft we did not get offset orders. The aircraft was ordered in 1963. It has been the policy since 1968 for the defence group to pursue a course of action leading to reciprocal purchasing. But the fact that we have done that extremely successfully since 1968 does not mean that we can go back to a 1963 order and expect to get offset orders. The honourable member said that we will repent at leisure. I can assure him that we will not repent. We will realise that we have an extremely good bargain in these aircraft from the point of view of both cost and cost effectiveness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
United States casualties in Vietnam from 1st January1961 to 1st April, 1972 were: 
Killed in action 45,679, Killed from other causes 10,123, 
Wounded in action and hospitalised 152,957, Wounded but not hospitalised 149,863, 
Missing in action 1,026, 
Prisoners of war 491. 
A considerable amount of progress has been made in this field but there are still 2 matters to be resolved. I intend to meet with the Service Ministers in the near future to see whether a resolution can be arrived at in one particular field. Additionally, there are problems relating to the amount of work which has to be done before this legislation can be brought to the House. That is not in my field; it is in the field of the Attorney-General. It has been decided that a number of matters should not be covered by regulation but should be spelled out in legislation. I am informed that because of this it would be impossible, even if the matters now under discussion are resolved, to introduce legislation in the near future. 
No, it is not one. Before the introduction of legislation a decision would have to be made, so the matter would go back to Cabinet for decision. But capital punishment is not the major problem. The problem is summary punishment. The Navy takes the view that because it has ships at sea it has a need for summary punishment and summary jurisdiction. In other words, because of the Navy's use of summary punishment, a ship does not have to be tied up while one person is being tried. So the Navy has wide powers of summary jurisdiction at sea. lt takes the view that Navy personnel should not be treated differently whether they are at sea or on land. On the other hand the other Services say that members of the Army or the Air Force should not be treated differently from a member of the Navy on land. This is the difficult problem we must resolve if we adopt a uniform code. It is a matter we are trying extremely hard to resolve and some progress has been made. But with the tremendous amount of pressure on legislation drafting services and on the Parliament at the present moment I think it is extremely unlikely that legislation on this matter will be introduced in the near future. 
I will certainly bear in mind what the honourable member for Berowra has said on this matter. It is, of course, a matter of policy and, as I have said, it is a matter on which the Government and Cabinet will desire to take a view before the legislation is introduced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure of $US233.602m has been incurred to 31st March, 1972 on the F111C aircraft project 
(a) Anticipated delivery of these aircraftin the United States is between April and November, 1973. It is expected the aircraft will be ferried, to Australia over the, period May to November, 1973. 
Total aircraft project costs are now estimated at $US344m. 
The sum originally quoted for the aircraft project was $US124.5m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following countries other than the United States of America and Australia have the M60 machine-gun: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister has seen the article in The Australian' of 18th January 1972. 
The documents bearing on this period are being prepared for release, as announced recently by the Government. 
RAAF Aircraft: Deployment to Butterworth (Question No. 5453) 
During the last few months a considerable amount of work has been done by both the Royal Australian Navy and my Department in assessing various alternatives. We have looked at the alternatives in regard to size, purchase overseas as against local manufacture and purchases of overseas designs and local manufacture, either in the Navy dockyard at Williamstown or in one of the private dockyards. Within the next few weeks I hope to be in a position to bring to Cabinet a paper on this subject setting out the views of the Defence Forces Development Committee. Until a decision is made it will not be possible, of course, to say what the decision will be. 
The honourable member said that the cost of the so-called DDLs was not realistic for Australia. I know it is a high figure but it is a cost which would be spread over a number of years. If we require defence we have to face the fact that large expenditures are necessary. We have taken this approach with other equipment and I believe it would be possible to do it in this case. At present we have 12- 
I am sorry. We have in the Navy at present 12 destroyers and at least three - possibly more - of those will need to be replaced in the next 10 years. So a decision in this respect will be made by the Government at the same time as it makes an overall decision on the S-year rolling programme. 
Yes, my attention was drawn to the broadcast made by the Leader of the Opposition on Monday night.  I  obtained a copy of it to ensure that I correctly grasped what he had said.  I  noted that he mentioned that Australia would get better defence if the national service scheme were abolished. The grounds he put forward in support of this rather queer proposition were that if the Army trains for 6 months  a  volunteer who joins up for 6 years there is a productive return of 5i years from him whereas if a national serviceman goes in for 18 months and has to be trained for 6 months only one year of productive service is obtained. But what the Leader of the Opposition completely ignored was that already we take every volunteer whom we can get. 
I  must correct myself. We accept every satisfactory volunteer whom we can get. The Labor Party, of course, believes that it can increase the number in the Army by dropping the standards. This was what was decided by the Labor Party at its Federal Conference held in Launceston earlier this year. It would look to reduced standards in the Army, thereby hoping to attract more volunteers. It is quite ludicrous to think that a substantially larger enlistment in the Army can be obtained by dropping the standards. The Army does not believe that. It certainly would not want to lower the standards, nor does it believe that the numbers would be increased significantly by any form of improvement in rates of pay or in terms and conditions of service. I/i the last few years the Government has adopted a great many reforms which have increased the rates of pay enormously and which have also improved the conditions of service in the Army but the increase in the number of volunteers has been only fairly marginal. 
We can take it that the abolition of national service would reduce the size of the Army from 40,000 to 28,000. In addition - this ls probably just as important - it would reduce the number of reservists from 63,000 to about 20,000. If this will give Australia better defence then I am a Dutchman. To the best of my knowledge the name of Fairbairn is Scottish, not Dutch, in origin. 
The other question that the honourable member asked was whether the Leader of the Opposition was correct when he. said that America would end its draft next year. This is not correct. The United States is aiming to have a volunteer army. It is aiming to do this by reducing the size of ils Army by more than one million compared with the number of servicemen in the Army in 1969. It is hoping that this will be possible. But the draft legislation is still available, if necessary, to supplement the numbers. Even if the United States can do without the draft from the middle of next year it will still have draftees in its Army until June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is likely to be several years before Army personnel records are computerised to the extent necessary to provide the type of information already notified in respect of the other Services. This is due mainly to the greater size of the Army and the lengthy task involved in completing personnel records and transferring them to the EDP system. 
At present, Army personnel are not obliged to notify the number or ages of their children. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The late  Sir Frederick  Shedden was carrying out research on Australian defence with a view to writing a book on that subject. Some facilities and assistance were made available to him at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, but he was writing for himself and not for the Government. Although it is understood that one volume of the book was considered by  Sir Frederick  to be in publishable form, his work was not completed when he died. On his death, his working papers and the manuscripts of his book became the property of his family. As an act of courtesy they are at present held on behalf of Lady Shedden in secure storage by the Department of Defence on the clear understanding that there is to be no access to them either by departmental officers or by anyone else. 
Yes. 
See the answer to (1). 
No. 
See the answer to (1). 
See the answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is asfollows: 
As explained in the answer to Question No. 5411, the Shedden papers are at present held by Department of Defence in secure storage on behalf of Lady, Shedden. Official records of the Department of Defence are transferred to the custody of Commonwealth Archives Office in accordance with the standing arrangements for archival transfer of Commonwealth records and access to them is subject to the normal rules. 
The Shedden papers are not Commonwealth Records nor are they the property of the Commonwealth. 
The testing and assessment of the 2 prototypes of Project N which have been produced are going ahead extremely well. I understand that the 2 aircraft have flown more than 250 hours so far, and that this testing has shown that the performance of these aircraft is at least equal to, and in some areas better than, what was expected from the design. It is expected that the Department of Civil Aviation certification will be available in about a fortnight's time, towards the end of this month. The Royal Australian Air Force and the Army have assessed the potential of this aircraft and their assessment was considered by the Defence Force Development Committee early last week. That Committee has reported to me, and I hope to be in a position very shortly to bring a report to the Government for its decision. 
I will see that the Minister is informed and a reply prepared. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have not yet bad an opportunity to study this report fully. It has been put to study in particular by the Service departments and by the Department of Defence. As soon as those studies are completed the matter will be brought to the Government for a decision. But of course, as the honourable gentleman would realise, until the Government does make a decision the report is not Government policy at all. It is only when the Cabinet and the Government have finally decided what action will be taken that this will apply as a matter of policy to the Services. 
I certainly will look at the proposal which has been brought forward by the honourable member. I do not really feel that it is necessary because I think that the Government will be giving consideration to this matter- 
1 am glad to be able to inform the honourable member for Bala*clava that the performance of the South Vietnamese has been extremely good since they were attacked towards the end of March. It is correct that in the early stages they suffered some reverses. That was because the North Vietnamese had some new and highly sophisticated Russian equipment which was being used for the first time in the area and which was superior to some of the equipment operated by the South Vietnamese. It is correct also that the South Vietnamese suffered a reverse because one of their divisions - the first one attacked at the west of the demilitarised zone - had been fairly newly formed and had not had the same experience in battle as others. Nevertheless, I believe that the South Vietnamese have performed extremely well and creditably. That is particularly so in the central highlands, at Kontum, where in spite of the fact that they have been heavily outnumbered they have been holding out; and also at An Loc, where they have been under siege for many weeks but have continued to hold out. 
Of course, an aggressor can concentrate his forces at the point where he is going to attack whereas the defender has to wait and see where the attack is being made before he can make the necessary arrangements to move troops to meet the aggression. So the aggressor naturally has the initial advantage. But since those initial setbacks to the South Vietnamese the only area from which they have retreated has been Quang Tri, where there was some loss of command and control. As honourable members know, the general responsible has been replaced and there is now a considerably higher morale at Hue. This has been shown in the retaking of Fire Base Bastogne. Only a few moments ago I heard that units of the South Vietnamese marines had landed 9 miles north of Quang Tri to cut off or interfere with the logistical support for the attack on Hue. So one can say that there is no doubt whatsoever that the South Vietnamese have performed extremely well. They have inflicted very severe casualties on the North Vietnamese. These casualties are estimated as being in excess of 20,000 killed and perhaps the same number of wounded. 
In addition, some 250 North Vietnamese tanks have been knocked out. The next few weeks in this area will undoubtedly be critical and crucial. It is possible and perhaps even probable that there will be some further North Vietnamese gains, but I believe that the South Vietnamese will be able to hold out. I have every optimism that they will continue to hold out and will send back the attackers - the aggressors - who are trying to take some of their country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Sir Robert Menzies said, on 29th April 1965 that: the takeover of South Vietnam would be a direct threat to Australia and all the countries of South and South East Asia. It must be seen as part of a thrust by Communist China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The task of holding the situation in South Vietnam and restraining the North Vietnamese is formidable.' 
and (3) There is very substantial evidence, including publicly available evidence such as statements by the Government of the Peoples Republic of China, of Peking's continuing political and material support, given in a variety of ways, for the attempted take-over of South Vietnam. 
The Australian contribution played its full part in helping to ensure that South Vietnam was not taken over. 
The Communist side has yet to give any indication that it is seriously interested in ending the conflict in Vietnam. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The legal requirements associated with transfer of the properties mentioned in section A (i)  of  the reply of 23rd February 1971 are in hand. 
In respect of section A (ii) of the earlier reply, general agreement has been reached with the State in the negotiations on lands in the Middle Head, South Head, Liverpool/Holsworthy, North Head and Dobroyd Point areas. 
However, there are still some outstanding issues to be resolved relating to boundaries, conditions of tenure and the occupancy of certain buildings. The Prime Minister has been in correspondence with the Premier on these matters and it is expected that future discussions will take place in the near future to seek agreement on the outstanding details. 
The release of the other Commonwealth owned lands referred to in the previous reply - Newington, Bumborah Point and Moore Park - is still the subject of discussion and negotiation with the State authorities. 
Referring to Section B of the reply of 23 February 1971, the Commonwealth has vacated 14 of the 40 acres leased from the State at Maroubra (Heffron Park). It is anticipated that the remaining 26 acres will be vacated in 1973. The acquisition of land at Holsworthy for Army purposes has not yet been finalised. 
The  answer  to  the  honourable member's  question is  as follows: 
The estimated cost of actual commitment to Vietnam  from  1962-63 to March 4972 is S218.435m. This  represents the  excess cost of maintaining  the Forces in  Vietnam  over  the cost of maintaining  them in  Australia. 
The  normal cost  of  maintaining the Forces engaged in Vietnam  from  1962-63 to March 1972 is estimated  to have been  $246.726m. The total cost therefore  of  maintaining these Forces is estimated to have been $465. 161m, after the addition of the excess costs shown at (1) above. 
My attention was drawn to the statement made by the honourable member for St George. As I could not recall having received information of this sort, I got in touch with my Department and asked my officers to make a thorough check on whether any advice had ever been given along those lines. My Department advised me that no Service adviser has ever made a recommendation that the Australian Army should number less than 40,000. In fact, senior Army officers have stated only in the last week or two that they believe that in order to carry out all the commitments and roles of a balanced military force, an army slightly above the current 40,000 would be required. So it is obvious that the honourable member for St George was incorrect and that he is just maintaining his reputation in this place for inaccurate statements. 
by leave - I wish to outline for honourable members the Government's decisions for the first year of the 5-Year Defence Programme 1972-73 to 1976-77. I shall also describe the general form of the Government's plan for the remaining 4 years of the programme. Before doing so, however, I shall re-state the Government's conception of the essential nature of Australia's strategic problem and its objectives for Australian defence. This will help to put the programme in its setting. 
We recognise that relations between the major powers will be the predominant influence on Australia's future strategic environment. We recognise also that those relationships could, in a variety of possible ways, give rise to situations in which Australian interests and even in the longer term Australia itself could come under threat. Precisely because of the obligations we have assumed under the ANZUS Treaty, it is to be assumed Australia must accept the primary responsibility for the defence of its own interests and must be able, if need be, to act alone. By being prepared to act in this manner we ensure support in emergencies going beyond our capabilities. 
The Government is progressively defining a long term programme of balanced force development which will ensure that in the changing circumstances of the future Australia will be able to act with the necessary measure of independence - both in peacetime and in war. In so acting Australia must be able to protect its interests beyond, as well as within, its continental boundaries; to support its friends and its allies in the protection of mutual interests in the region; and, having these capabilities, to be able to continue to contribute responsibly to the development of a climate of confidence and security in the region and to the deterrence of threats generally. 
All this implies an Australian concept of defence, which, though based on continental strength, will not be limited to the employment of capabilities matched to the specialised requirements of continental defence alone. We are developing forces specifically capable of acting in the broad maritime and archipelago surrounds of the continent, if this should be needed, no less than in defence of our beaches and our hinterland. We reject all policies which would, whether by doctrine or by the de facto denial of external facilities or suitable equipment, confine our Services to no more than a continental role. 
My statement in this House of 28th March 1972 on Defence and the Australian Defence Review (Parliamentary Paper No. 25 of 1972 presented to Parliament on 28th March 1972) described the strategic outlook for the next 2 decades and the specific factors influencing the development of Australia's forces. Our defence effort must provide for present needs. But sophisticated equipments take a long time to acquire and bring into service and then they usually have a long life. Therefore we have also to take into account Australia's likely defence needs in the 1980s in deciding what equipments to order now. 
The planning introduced by the Government will allow our future defence needs to be foreseen better and to be taken into account in financial programming. It will help ensure that acquisitions of new equipment are made at the best time. Programming reconciles, as far as possible, all the pertinent criteria such as the rate of obsolescence of existing equipments, the time needed to bring new equipment into service, the development of new technology, the strategic outlook, our industrial situation, the financial situation at the time, and the extent of the long term financial commitments that would be entered into and handed on to future governments and parliaments. 
Our defence industries, our research and development capacity and our military and civil infrastructure also contribute significantly to our defence preparedness. Their development needs to be harmonised with the development of our forces. 
I believe that these vessels will have to go to the United States to have that work undertaken, but I will have to check that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Investigations are still being pursued in consultation with other Departments and local authorities. 
Approximately 1,060 adults and 1,570 children live in Army married quarters in Puckapunyal while approximately 540 adult and 530 child members of Army families live in married quarters in the environs of the town of Seymour. 
(5) and (6) This information is within the province of the Seymour Shire Authorities and relates to their private dealings with individual families. 
The subsidised Home Help Service operated by the Shire of Seymour is available to Army families living in the Seymour area, but not to those living in Puckapunyal pending the outcome of the negotiations in (1). 
Representations to the Victorian authorities resulted in 1970 in extensions of the Home Help Scheme to Army families living in married quarters in the Seymour area outside of Puckapunyal, since when the situation described in answer to part  7  has continued. 
(9) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  numbers vary from day to day as personnel are replaced.  The  following are the approximate figures at present: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a general principle, the Financial Working Arrangement between the Governments of the United States and Australia provided that United States Authorities would defray all base camp construction costs. However, because of the necessity to provide some facilities at short notice (mainly prefabricated buildings), capital expenditure of approximately Sl.lm was incurred between 1962 and 1972. In addition, construction materials were provided by the Australian Army for use in the theatre during the period. Some of these were used in the construction of bases and base facilities but records of the value of those materials put to that purpose are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The comparative figures and costs in 1971 for common elements of non-effectiveness in the Armed Forces, such as sickness, certain types of leave, personnel-in-transit and those under arrest are - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the position of the Australian Government that when the terms 'chemical and biological' are applied to 'warfare', 'materials', etc., in a military context, they refer to those operations and materials prescribed by the Geneva Protocol of 1925, to which Australia acceded in 1930. Australia's intention to adhere to its obligations under the Protocol has been stated in international and national forums on many occasions. 
The answers to the specific questions follow: 
In the course of their training, most officers receive some briefing concerning chemical and biological operations and are taught some simple defensive procedures. A much more limited number are given training in greater depth. 
Some defensive equipments are held and further equipments and warning systems are being procured as necessary. In present circumstances, it is judged that the measures taken provide  a  sufficient capability for the protection of Australian forces. 
In accordance with the stated policy of the Government, the Armed Forces have no direct access to biological materials which could be used offensively in war: in the present circumstances the Government has not seen the need to equip the Australian Armed Forces with chemical weapons. 
I am reluctant to answer 4 and 5 in detail since I consider that this would not be in the public interest. However, I can say that, in choosing the training and equipment programmes of the Australian Armed Forces, we sim to protect them against as many forms of attack as is practicable within  a  balanced total defence preparedness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The consultants used by my Department within the last 3 years and the amounts paid to them are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Capital expenditure on new bases within Australia in the period 1961-62 to 1970-71 was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total identifiable expenditure on Australian Forces stationed at Butterworth, Malaysia, was S17.166m in 1969-70 and $19.683m in 1970-71. However, in addition, certain maintenance stores and other items were issued from bulk depot stocks in Australia; the cost of the items was not recorded separately. 
The main components of the expenditure and the cost of each were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present estimated costs of training a cadet in each Service are: 
 1  have no personal knowledge of the matter which the honourable member raises. It comes within the direct and personal administration of the Minister for the Army. I will make some inquiries of him and see that the honourable member gets a reply at the earliest possible moment. 
Considerable progress has been made in this field but (here are still some outstanding matters. I made it clear to the Parliament recently that because of the legislative programme with which it is faced before the forthcoming election, it would be quite impossible for the parliamentary officers to draft the necessary legislation. Even if we were ready to give instructions immediately, there would be no room in the programme to allow for the introduction of the legislation. But this is a matter of policy on which Cabinet has not yet made its final decision, and therefore it will not be until after a decision has been made by Cabinet that a uniform miliatry code can be implemented. It will certainly not be implemented before the forthcoming election. 
First of all, I point out that the Minister in charge of defence forces retirement benefits is the Treasurer, not the Minister for Defence. A considerable amount of work has been done on the recommendations of the Jess Committee. The 3 Services have given a full reply on all aspects of this matter and that is under consideration at present. The Government is shortly to consider the recommendations of the Services, the Jess Committee and the Treasury. Of course, this is a matter of policy, and as soon as a decision has been made it will be announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table sets out details of all ships and aircraft currently on order for the Services, together with estimated delivery dates and country of origin. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the Defence Report 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$0.680m. 
Refined sugar. 
Complete records are not available of orders placed direct on industry by overseas countries, however, some information on defence contracts placed by United States sources is available and the details are as follows - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first part of his question is answered by my statement on 5tb April 1972 when I announced that the Government had approved significant improvements in the scales and standards of housing for married servicemen. The house size range for a new 3 bedroom brick veneer has increased from 1,050-1,200 square feet to 1,100-1,400 square feet. In addition, improvements to internal features include built-in wardrobes in each bedroom and additional cupboard space in the kitchen arid laundry and for linen and cloaks. Ceiling insulation, a shower recess, sanding and sealing of floors, light fittings and window blinds would also be included. Additional concrete areas would be provided for carports. The S10m to $12m to which I referred was the estimated cost of improvements to existing dwellings and to new houses contemplated for construction over about the next 3 years. I also stated that many of the houses provided for servicemen were obtained through arrangements between the Commonwealth and the respective States between 1956 and 1966 and that these lacked features which were now considered n.cessary. I said it was intended to commence discussions wilh the Stales with a view to bringing the internal fixtures and fittings in those dwellings into line with the new standards so far as this was reasonably practicable. I can now add that the Commonwealth has been negotiating with the States' housing authorities and it is expected that improvements will commence during 1972-73. 
There are Commonwealth owned houses at Puckapunyal, Bendigo and Monegeeta and State owned houses have been provided at Seymour for the Puckapunyal establishment and at .Bendigo. Any improvements required to the Commonwealth owned houses will be arranged by the Department of the Army through the Department of Works. Improvements to the State owned houses at Seymour and Bendigo are now the subject of Commonwealth/State discussions with a view to the State housing authorities undertaking improvements this financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions for reimbursement of entertainment expenses of official guests visiting Service bases are the same in all 3 Services. In each case, claims may be made for defined official entertainment expenses, through cither a Command Entertainment Fund, or through a Service Me.ss, depending on the nature of the entertainment provided. 
In view of these common provision, no change to the present practice is considered to be necessary. 
This is a matter which would be more directly within the knowledge of my colleague the Minister for the Army. But I can assure the honourable gentleman that the defence Services do their utmost to ensure that in no circumstances does any defence equipment fall into the hands of civilians. However, I will obtain a fuller answer as to whether there have been any actual thefts. I know that on occasions these do occur, but the Services are extremely anxious and keen to see that their establishments are always under the highest security and are well guarded. 
I think Parliament is the one institution for which one does not have to have any qualification except the qualification of getting SO per cent of the voters to vote for you. The Services do not desire to lower the educational standard for recruitment because they have found that when they have accepted people below a certain educational standard it has been much more difficult to train them. After all, the Services today are becoming more and more technical so they have to insist on a minimum standard. Once people get into the Services they are given a considerable amount of additional education and this helps to bring them up to the required standard. I am sure that the Services would be completely opposed to any further reduction in the standard of education. 
I believe that criticism of what the Government has done to improve conditions of service for servicemen is completely unjustified. This Government has a very proud record of achievement during the last 18 months in the field of improving pay and conditions. During that period it has received 6 reports from the Kerr Committee. It has accepted and adopted all those reports. As a result of one of the reports in the major field of increased pay for both officers and men we are paying S92m more this year than was paid in the previous year. There has also been great reduction in the complexity of pay and service conditions. In addition we have accepted other reports which have considerably improved temporary rental allowance, temporary allowance for accommodation, education allowance and disturbance and removal allowance. We have also accepted new and improved standards for housing. All new houses for servicemen will be of an unproved size and improved standard and the established houses will be upgraded. It is true as the national secretary of the RSL,  Mr Keys,  has said that there are still some matters before the Government on which decisions have not been made. Of course this is true but those matters are there because of the initiative of the Government in bringing them forward. We were unfortunate in having to replace  Mr Justice  Kerr. Naturally, it has taken  Mr Justice  Woodward some time to pick up all the threads but he has informed me that he will report on the 2 matters on which he has to report to the Government within the next 5 or 6 weeks. 
We have had before us the report of the Jess Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. I stress that this Committee was set up because of the initiative taken by the Government. Already we have made some decisions in this field. Firstly, we have said that no-one will be disadvantaged by participating in the Jess scheme; that everybody will have a right of election to ensure that by participating in the new scheme he is not disadvantaged. We have said also that the legislation in relation to the new scheme will be introduced next year but, of course, it will be retrospective to 1st October this year. We have before us a number of other measures on which we expect results very soon. So far as the DFRB scheme is concerned, we are now able to make a- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
&lt;a) $2,581 m. (b) Rifle spares, Ikara, Jindivik and spares. 
No record is held of orders placed direct on industry in Australia by Britain in that year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $0.352m. (b) Rifles, rifle spares, truck spares, repair of Sabre aircraft. 
No record is held of orders placed direct on industry in Australia by Malaysia in that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) SO. 176m. (b) Ammunition pouches, rifle spares, helicopter and aircraft repairs, 7.62mm ball ammunition. 
No record is held of orders placed direct on industry in Australia by New Zealand in that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) S0.26m. (b) Truck spares. 
No record is held of orders placed direct on industry in Australia by Singapore in that year. 
As one who represents a large rural electorate I naturally am delighted by the decision, and announcement, that the Commonwealth is to take a more active part in decentralisation. Because of the relatively short time available to debate this matter I intend to concentrate entirely on decentralisation. I think that the Opposition, which criticised the Government for having done nothing, has been quite unfair. The Government has done a considerable amount to help decentralisation in the country. I shall list just a few instances. I do not want to take up the time of the House unduly, but there is a long list of things which the Commonwealth Government has done without which centralisation in the metropolitan area would have increased to a much greater extent. 
Firstly, of course, we have given great support to primary industry. In this Budget alone an amount of about $230m is being given to primary industry by way of support in marketing and stabilisation schemes, research, guarantees and subsidies. Undoubtedly, people who would otherwise have to leave have been kept on the land and kept in remote areas by this assistance. We have done a great job in developing the resources of Australia. Water resources have been developed at a very fast rate. The Commonwealth has introduced its new water resources development programme. It has not only assisted the States, but also it has built such dams as the Ord and the Fairbairn dams. Many of these large water conservation projects have undoubtedly encouraged decentralisation. The Government has undertaken forestry development. It has doubled the rate of forestry planting. This, again, is a decentralised industry. Of course, one could mention the work that has been done in minerals, particularly including oil and gas, and in the development of power. There has been development in the north, such as on beef roads. In fact, during one 10-year period - the decade of the 1960s - 20 new towns were established as a result of the development of Australian resources. 
Throughout the whole of Australia. These developments are based in some cases on minerals, fisheries and forestry. I have produced a list of at least 20 new towns which were established as a result of this development of Australia's resources. We have improved telecommunications enormously. This was one of the great problems and bugbears of the more remote areas. Today instead of waiting hours for a telephone call one can get through quickly. The same thing applies to aviation. There has been a tremendous improvement in aviation. I recall that when I first came into the House I used to have to drive 70 miles in the wrong direction to an old wartime Air Force base to catch a DC3 aircraft to Canberra. Now a big aerodrome has been developed at Albury and a good service operates from it. Not only that but the Commonwealth also has a new programme of assisting the development of some of these aerodromes and their runways. At one stage the policy was that in Melbourne or Sydney ratepayers did not have to pay for the development of an aerodrome, but those in country towns had to pay half the cost of local aerodromes. After representations to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  he has now agreed that this shall no longer be the case. At Albury, for instance, the cost of conversions to enable the airport to take jets instead ot turbo-prop Fokker Friendships will be entirely at Commonwealth expense. The Government has given a petrol subsidy to ensure that the price in remote areas is not more than 4c a gallon over city prices. We have built Commonwealth offices, particularly for the Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Social Services. 
Service establishments have been located in the more remote areas instead of being crowded close to the cities. This, again, has a great effect on decentralisation. On the edge of my electorate are 4 major Service establishments which employ, all told, about 5,000 people. As a result of this, $18m a year is pumped into the economy in that area. This has had a big effect, just as the location of other bases in more remote areas has helped the development of those areas. We have given tourist assistance. Defence and supply factories are being operated in remote areas such as Mulwala, Bendigo and Lithgow. One of the great things that has been done by the Government is the development of tertiary education facilities in the more remote and outback areas. One of the great problems not so long ago was that if a person wanted a tertiary education he, and his family also, would have to go to Melbourne, Sydney or one of the other capital cities. Now tertiary education is coming to the outback areas. In spite of all this, these are not being sufficiently successful. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in his speech in the House last week: 
In S years to 1971 the population of the metropolitan areas increased by an amount equal to 75 per cent of the increase in Australia's population in the same period. 
Between 2 elections in the 1950s my electorate of Farrer actually lost population. That trend has now been reversed. Nevertheless, at a time when Australia's population was going ahead at a rate of about 250,000 per annum, it was wrong that a relatively developed area like Farrer should lose population. 
We need not only to encourage decentralisation as such but also to encourage industry to decentralise. The country has a lot to offer industry. It has availability of land and this is usually fairly cheap land. It has cheaper and ample water in most cases. This is particularly so in the case of the 2 major cities in my electorate, Wagga and Albury. Both of them have very large storage dams above them on the Murray and the Murrumbidgee rivers. The country has fewer traffic jams and a more stable work force. In Victoria and New South Wales encouragement is being given to industry to decentralise, by financial assistance and by reducing payroll tax. Tn addition, the country offers a better way of life, a way of life which is closer to nature. On the other hand, of course, the cities have always had the attraction of the bright lights. People are starting to demand an improved quality of life which is difficult to provide in the cities with their smog, their noise pollution and their traffic. It is interesting to note that when the firm of Borg-Warner, a major overseas firm which was established in Sydney, decided to decentralise and go to Albury it found at first that it was extremely difficult to get an adequate number of its senior executives to go there. Today those who have gone there are so happy and contented that there is a waiting list of people in Sydney anxious to go to Albury. 
Why do people go to cities? First of all, I suppose the major attraction is the job opportunities. In so many of the smaller country centres one just does not have the opportunity. One sees people who are born and bred in country areas who have to go to the city to get a job. Transport costs are one of the major factors. This is partly brought about by outmoded transport and by government taxes in some cases. Sales tax on goods which are produced in the country and then transported to the city for sale is added to the cost of transport as well as to the cost of the item itself. There are better amenities in some of the cities which attract people. This applies particularly to universities, training facilities, great departmental stores and spectacular sports. There are policies adopted by industry which militate against decentralisation. One of these which I will instance - there are a great many - is the price of steel. It is an extraordinary thing that steel in Sydney is sold at a basic price; much of it now goes by rail down to Melbourne and when it reaches Melbourne it is sold at the same price; but on the way, at Albury and Wagga, it is sold at a much higher price. This is obviously quite ludicrous and yet it is the commercial policy of a company. 
These are the sorts of things that I hope will be looked at by a committee which will point out the problems and tell us why industry does not decentralise. There are costs which undoubtedly have a major effect on companies which have to locate themselves inland. I know that many of them ban subscriber trunk dialling calls because they find that they would be just too expensive. They have to limit calls considerably. Then there is the question of cost of power. Here again we have the extraordinary situation that very often power is more expensive just next to where it is being produced than it is many miles away in the city where it is offered at some special rate. So decentralisation of industry must be a co-operative exercise for the Federal Government, the States, local government and industry. The first thing to do is to set up the authority, the ministerial council and the advisory committees and then have them identify the problems and suggest remedies. Just as all Cabinet submissions are looked at to see their effect on the environment, so these submissions also should be looked at to see how they will affect decentralisation. 
I welcome the announcement that a small number of carefully selected centres are to be earmarked for growth. I naturally hope and expect that Wagga and Albury will be included on this list and that this will help them to iron out some of their growth problems. But it is not the Waggas and the Alburys that worry me most; it is the smaller country centres like Holbrook, Lockhart, Henty and Corowa. These are where the drift to the city occurs probably more than from the larger country cities. Thus, while selective growth centres are necessary, we also need policies to encourage growth and stability in the smaller towns. Some will become dormitory towns for nearby cities, but there is a limit to the distance people are prepared to drive to and from work. I note that the new authority is to be responsible to the Prime Minister. This is as it should be in the initial stages. But I feel that soon the work will pile up to such an extent that it will need a separate, full time Minister as in the States. 
It is unfortunate that few people in the media appear to realise the enormity of this major policy decision which will change the face of Australia. Some who support the Australian Labor Party and who believe that Labor's vague and unspecified promises in this area would win votes have reacted in a hostile manner as they now see that the Government's actions go much further than the Opposition's promises. 
The honourable member was not in the chamber at the beginning of my speech to hear my explanation which dealt with that very effectively. I have genuinely tried to find out what is Labor's policy on decentralisation. Its Platform, Policy and Rules tell us little except that Labor would establish a department of housing, urban affairs and regional development. On the other hand, the Liberal Party in its official platform says that one of its objectives is to have an Australian nation in which decentralisation of industry is encouraged. The only idea of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on decentralisation appears to be to support the Albury-Wodonga complex, although he does not say how or to what extent. The shallowness of his thinking was displayed in his speech on 19th September when he praised Albury because it had the water, rail, road and primary production facilities. But he neglected to say that so too have Wagga, Goulburn, Wangaratta and Benalla. So too, I suppose, has Yass. 
A recent survey that was carried out in Victoria and New South Wales as to winsome 157 firms chose to locate themselves in the country showed that only 9 of them made the decision because of the availability of cheap land, water or adequate transport facilities. Most of them were located in the country for reasons of labour availability and suitability, because of markets, because they had connections with a local firm or because raw materials were available. So I favour the selection of Wagga and Albury as growth centres, but for different reasons from those of the Leader of the Opposition. He also suggested that some of the Commonwealth public servants marked for transfer to Canberra could be sent to such areas as AlburyWodonga. This needs careful assessment. What incentives should industry be given to decentralise? What policies should a government, anxious to decentralise, adopt? Should we give loans to industry to help it decentralise? Should we, as is done in New South Wales, give country manufacturers a 5 per cent preference? 
Yes, it is a fact that the Government has decided not to accept the offer of the United States of F4E Phantom aircraft for purchase by Australia. This offer appeared to be a generous one at the time it was made. We were offered 23 aircraft for a price of about $54m, which would have been $20m less than the price offered under the original arrangement which was made at the time when we decided to lease the aircraft. But on assessing the latest offer the Air Force found there would be additional costs because we would have to buy spares and also ground handling equipment which we have not purchased at present because we are only leasing these aircraft. Also if these aircraft were brought into the Royal Australian Air Force it would be necessary to disband one Mirage squadron as well as to recruit and train some 320 pilots and airmen. Therefore a Phantom F4E squadron could not be fully operational until at least a couple of years time. We should remember that the pilots who are now flying the Phantoms will be transferred to Fill aircraft when these come into service next year. 
So for all those reasons the Government has decided that it should not accept the offer. At the present time, we have in the air superiority and ground attack field in the RAAF and Royal Australian Navy 88 Mirage and 20 Skyhawk aircraft. It was assessed by the RAAF that the F4E aircraft were superior to these aircraft but they were not markedly superior, only marginally superior. The Government therefore decided that it would be preferable to wait, as we had agreed to do under the 5-year rolling programme, until the 1974-75 financial year and make a decision then when there would be available to us new and improved types of aircraft which would be, we hoped, markedly superior to the Mirage rather than accept one which was not that much ahead of the aircraft at present being flown. I might say that this decision was agreed to by the Defence Forces Development Committee because it felt there were no other projects which should be displaced to make way for this proposal. I am sure this was the correct decision. 
1 am informed that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition- 
by leave - I thank the House for granting me leave to speak on this matter and 1 thank the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for confirming the fact that he did go to Holland to look at the destroyer programme. He had, as he said, a perfect right to do this. He compared this with seeing the Viggen aircraft. No decision has been made in regard to the Viggen or any other aircraft. It is perfectly within the competence of any member of Parliament to look at everything available and to hold views on it. The different situation in this case is that the decision has been made and announced by the Government that it will be building a modified DDL at Williamstown. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has confirmed that he was looking at this matter with a view to seeing whether that decision could or should be changed. 1 am glad, if he can speak for his Party, that he has confirmed that, whatever decision is made, the ship will be built in Australia. 
But the question is not only that of building an overseas design in Australia. We are also anxious to see that there is local design as well as local production. The embarrassing situation for the Government is that a very senior person in the Opposition who, with a change of government, could expect to have a ministerial portfolio, has gone overseas and looked at alternative plans at a time when we have a team in Holland negotiating for the purchase of some equipment. If the Dutch believed for one moment that we could still buy from them the modified Dutch DDG, of course they would not make available to us the equipment we are seeking. I think all honourable members know that our programme in the destroyer field is to have a modified DDL - an Australian built hull, Rolls Royce propulsion, and some of the fire equipment being the Mark 92 fire control system which the United States Navy intends to fit into the patrol frigate but which is of a Dutch design being made under licence in the United States. At the present time we are seeking permission to have this made under licence for us either in America or here. I am not certain of the position. 
We do not have it and we have been informed in writing that they have refused it. At a time when negotiations of this sort are going on, if the Dutch believed there was still a chance of our buying their ship they would hesitate to make this available. That is why I say the  Deputy  Leader's visit came at an extremely awkward time. It is erroneous to compare his visit with the visit of 3 backbench members to Taiwan. They did not go there to look at great amounts of equipment which the Australian Government could or might purchase. They went there just to see the country generally. I hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will not feel that I am seeking to make this a political matter, but I believe there are some very unusual features of the situation. First of all, it would have been normal courtesy to have informed me or the Department of Defence of the visit. Not only would we have been able to assist in the arrangements for the visit but we would also have been able to assist with briefing notes. I know that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  has gone out of his way to see that all honourable members have been briefed. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in particular was briefed fully on the DDL proposal. I believe that at the time the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was satisfied, because he did not say anything to me afterwards. To the best of my knowledge, he said nothing to my colleague. He did not say that he was dissatisfied or that he required further information of any sort. 
Suddenly we found that he had made a trip overseas. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said today that he had informed the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Certainly a letter was written to the head of the Prime Minister's Department which just said that he was going overseas on business connected with his position as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It was just, as the honourable gentleman has said, a request for travelling allowances when he was overseas. I suppose it is true to say then that the Prime Minister knew, but certainly no information about the purpose of the visit was given. The Government is constantly chided by the Opposition for having secrecy in government. It seems to me that this is a case of excessive secrecy in opposition. This whole matter has been cloaked in secrecy. For one thing, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not even go through what I would regard as the very normal process for any senior persons when travelling overseas, and that is that when they go along to inspect anything they take with them a person from the Australian embassy. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  did this during the entire time he was in South East Asia. As a result, the embassy had records of the discussions. Important parts were sent back to Australia so that they were available to us. In this case we have no knowledge of any sort. 
There have been some very unusual procedures in this case. The Government made a very careful assessment before it made its decision, and it made its decision because it believed that the modified DDL could be designed and built in an Australian shipyard and that by doing so Williamstown could be updated and modernised and would then have the opportunity for refurbishing, servicing and doing much more than it can do at present. There would be a premium for local production. Employment opportunities would be made available and we would not have one more standard in our Navy. The trouble at the moment is that we have an Australian standard, a United Kingdom standard and a United States building stan dard. To have a Dutch one as well, with all the complications and perhaps with different fire control systems, would, I believe, be wrong. 
We find that the modified DDL can be designed and built in Australia for approximately the same price as the Dutch DDG, as modified to suit Australia, could be purchased from overseas. So it is quite apparent that, if what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition wants is carried out - namely, that the Dutch DDG design is built in Australia - the costs of doing that would be considerably higher. The assessment made by the Navy and by officers of my Department is that the performance would be not as good. It would require at least 50 more people to man the Dutch DDG as to man the modified DDL. The weapons would be different and there would need to be a complete redesign for compatibility and comparable capability. I believe that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has done a disservice by casting some doubt on the future of this matter. In any case, I am glad that he has confirmed that whatever he may decide to have in place of the modified DDL - if he is in the position to decide - will be built in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure in 1971-72 on defence equipment for the services and the Departments of Defence and Supply amounted to (a) purchases in Australia, $183. 2m; (b) purchases overseas, $101. 3m. 
The value of equipment received by the Services and Departments of Defence and Supply in 1971-72 was: (a) procured in Australia, $167.2m; (b) imported, $58.6m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made in 1971-72 for each class ot ship and aircraft which has been ordered for the Services from overseas are set out hereunder. This information includes payments made both overseas and in Australia. 
Payments made in 1971-72 lor ammunition which has been imported for each of the services from overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
NAVY 
The following is  a  list of ships presently overseas: 
During the time I have been listening to the defence debates in this Parliament. I have not heard a more pitiable and painful collection of speeches, with a couple of exceptions, than I have heard from the Opposition this afternoon. It really is incredible and makes one wonder where this country would go under a Labor government. We have had some honourable members opposite say: 'What do we want defence for. We do not want defence of any sort'. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said: We do not want defence; all we want is economic and friendly relations with Indonesia and our other neighbours'. Of course we want friendly and economic relations with Indonesia and our other neighbours in South East Asia. This Government has done more in the last 12 months in this direction than any previous government has done. We are on extremely close terms with Indonesia. We have helped Indonesia economically and militarily. As the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said, we have been training their pilots and assisting them to obtain self reliance. Many honourable members on the Opposition side seem to think that because we cannot immediately identify an enemy about to arrive on our doorstep that we need no defence of any sort. This is ludicrous. 
Defence is like insurance. We always say that we have paid too much for insurance if our house does not burn down, but if it does we are jolly glad we had insurance. It is the same with defence. We have to have defence. We have to have self reliance. More and more countries have to be self reliant because they cannot rely, as they have done in the past, on the great friendly powers - the United States of America and the United Kingdom - which are now withdrawing many of their forces. So we have to be self reliant and we must have national independence and ensure that we have security, that we have collective security with other friendly nations in the area. This is why we have organisations and treaties such as ANZUS, SEATO and ANZUK so that we can help these people develop their own power. One cannot suddenly turn around and say: 'There is a threat so let us build up our defence forces'. If you have nothing to build them up from it takes too long. One has to have troops and equipment and, as we know, there is a tremendously long lead time for equipment. The DDL destroyers we are talking about probably will not be in operation for 10 years time and then they will be in operation for 25 years. So we have to look a long way ahead. 
As for the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  I thought that his was one of the most pitiable and painful speeches I have heard in this Parliament. He said that we have no defence and that the Government has never told the nation anything. Where has he been since he has been in this Parliament? Only a few weeks ago I announced  a  5-year rolling defence programme. It spelled out in the minutest detail everything we were getting this year. Expenditure of well over $200m on new facilities and bases out of a total expenditure of Sl,323m this year was proposed and I spelled out what our programme will be for the next 4 years. Yet he gets up and whines away about our having nothing. All I can say is that if we had the Labor Party in office we would have nothing. We know what its first programme would be for it has been spelled out by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It would be the abolition of national service. Labor would reduce our Army until it reached the stage where it was quite ineffective and inefficient. 
What would happen with the abolition of national service? What would happen is that we would reduce our Army from over 41,500 to about 29,000; we would reduce our Citizen Military Forces, our reserves and our number of active battalions. The number of active battalions we would have following the abolition of national service would be about half what we have at the moment. Our Regular Army would be about two-thirds what it is at the moment. Our reserve would be about one-third what it is at the moment. This is the sort of thing that the honourable member for Wills and the honourable member for Burke and others would create. They believe that there is no need for defence of any sort. Of course, we know that this is what will happen. At least I can say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  came in here and tried to make a few constructive comments which is more than virtually anyone else from the other side of the House has done, with the exception of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  I will be having a word with him very shortly about a proposal he put forward in relation to the Cockatoo Island dockyard. 
In fact, seeing that I have sidetracked myself, I mention to him now that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  and I saw a number of trade unionists the other day from Cockatoo Island dockyard. They have a real problem, particularly the boilermakers, and are starting to get concerned about the lack of work. We have been looking very closely at what work can be done at Cockatoo dock yard. Three ships are under consideration. One, of course, is the AOE. the fast combat support ship, and another one is the oceanographic ship. While both of these ships are under consideration, even if a decision were made very shortly it would be some time before the effect on the workload was felt by the workers in the Cockatoo dock itself. 
The Minister for the Navy and I will be making a statement this afternoon that negotiations for the construction of a submarine slave dock at Cockatoo dockyard should commence immediately. Not only is this extremely necessary from the point of view of maintenance of the submarines in that area but also it will provide very shortly an increased workload. I am not able yet to say exactly how much this work will cost but I believe it will be of the order of $1.5m to $1.8m. These are the sort of problems that we are running up against in both the aircraft industry and the shipbuilding industry, and it is not easy. They are worldwide problems. In many areas there is over capacity. As I mentioned, we are trying to help at Cockatoo dock and we are trying to help in the aircraft industry. I was talking to the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Ltd only yesterday and he informed me that he foresees in the next year a slight increase in the workload for the Commonwealth Aircraft Factories because of the fact that the work on the light observation helicopters will be starting. Also there is a policy of offset. Whenever we buy equipment from overseas now we make it part of the agreement for that purchase that some of this equipment - either that equipment or something else alternative to it - should be built in Australian yards, whether they be dockyards or aircraft factories, so as to try to increase the amount of work provided. The workload ls extremely low at the present time and it is giving us concern. So we have adopted this system of offsets, and it is working very well. 
We are looking at collaborative programmes. I want to say to the honourable member for Blaxland that he should not believe everything he reads in the newspapers. In fact, I saw recently that only 15 per cent of people said they believed what they read in newspapers, and this might be a fairly inflated percentage. However, we certainly are looking at collaborative programmes. Sooner or later there will be a replacement for the Mirage. When that happens we would like to see, first of all, that the Royal Australian Air Force has the ability to select what it requires, in other words, that it will get the best possible equipment that is available. We believe also that there should be an increase in the workload going to Australian industry as a result of this. We have been working hard also to try to increase the workload by the production of the Nomad. This year 20 of these aircraft have been ordered, 11 of them to go to the Army and 9 to go for sale outside. I mentioned the light observation helicopters, the ikara and the Turana. 
Australian industry has been gaining very considerably because it is a policy of this Government that we should devote more and more of Australian defence orders to Australian industry. I was interested to see the figures just very recently. Today Australia spends 85.5 per cent of its total defence expenditure in Australia. This figure represents an increase from the low figure of 68.2 per cent in 1967-68. So this year only approximately 14.5 per cent of the total expenditure will go overseas. Of course, much of this is inescapable when we are purchasing equipment such as the Fill aircraft - that magnificent aircraft which the Opposition has tried unsuccessfully for so long to denigrate. It is still the best aircraft of its kind in the world. I am sure that when it comes to Australia next April or May it will be an extremely valuable adjunct to the RAAF, which is one of the best equipped air forces. Certainly it is the best equipped for its size in the world and it is one of the best equipped anywhere in the world. 
The percentage of equipment purchased in Australia has gone up very considerably from 38.7 per cent in 1967 to 64 per cent, and only 36 per cent is purchased overseas. 
I was asked to speak for only 10 minutes. I realise that in doing so I cannot deal with many questions that I would have liked to have answered. I would have liked to say much more on defence. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition chided me or the Government for the fact that there was no adequate opportunity to discuss defence matters. I believe that opportunity has been provided for people desired to take advantage of it. We have had for the first time ever a White Paper on Defence. We have had an extremely long and very full exposition of the 5-year rolling programmes. Honourable members have had an opportunity during the Budget debate to raise defence matters. I admit that the estimates debates are probably the worst means of discussing defence matters and really getting down to tin-tacks because inadequate time is allowed. But there are always opportunities available if honourable members desire to speak on these matters. 

 Mr KATTER (Kennedy- Minister for the Army) - I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Chairman. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I oppose the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I think it is quite wrong for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  evaded the question. The Prime Minister did not evade it at all. He made it perfectly clear that this question is under very active consideration at the present moment and that a statement will be made to this House before it rises. I confirm that. I have already given a commitment that a statement will be made to the House before it rises, and there will be an opportunity for debate on that statement. That statement will be made when a final decision has been arrived at. I can say perfectly clearly and distinctly now that that commitiment will be honoured. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that a Bill should be introduced into this Parliament. I made it perfectly clear some time ago that it would not be possible to introduce a Bill into this Parliament. What we will do is make a statement. We have agreed that, when the Bill is introduced in the autumn session, there will be backdating to 1st October of all the additional benefits available under that Bill. The Government has agreed that, whatever scheme is introduced, there will be no detriment at all to those who are in a different scheme at present. Under these circumstances I have no doubt whatsoever that a statement will be made before the House rises. I have no doubt whatsoever that that statement will detail additional benefits under the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. So I oppose the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders now to debate something which will come before the House very shortly. 
I am not exactly certain of the situation at the present time. I know that quite an amount of work has been done on this matter but it is extremely difficult to standardise the number of awards that are available in this field. I will look this up as soon as question time is over and I will get in touch with the honourable member and see that he gets a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The methods of maintaining records of postings in the individual Services vary. The following are the posting statistics for 1971-72: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The percentage of married Service personnel who were required to move between locations in 1971-72 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Service Departments have no requirement to maintain statistics - on the treatment of wives and children of servicemen as in-patients or out-patients' in civilian hospitals. 
There has been no consultation with State authorities on the provision of additional hospital facilities on the Holsworthy-Ingleburn Townsville or Richmond area. 
General Practitioners in Victorian Districts:  Numbers and Patients  (Question No. 6283)  Mr Kennedy  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health upon notice: 
How many general practitioners are there in (a) Bendigo, (b) Ballarat, (c) Geelong, (d) Wodonga and (e) Portland, and how many of them treat pensioners. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Service Departments have no requirement to maintain statistics on the treatment of wives and children of servicemen as inpatients or outpatients in civilian hospitals. 
There has been no consultation with State authorities on the  provision of additional hospital facilities in the Holsworthy-Ingleburn Townsville or Richmond area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Service Departments have no requirement to maintain statistics on the treatment of wives and children of servicemen as inpatients and outpatients in civilian hospitals. 
There has been no consultation with State authorities on the provision of additional hospital facilities in the Holsworthy-Ingleburn Townsville or Richmond area. 
Commonwealth Taxation Office: Accommodation and Staff in Sydney (Question No. 6265) 
First of all,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that you will pass on to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his election and that you will also accept my congratulations on your appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. You and I have one thing in common. We both follow the same football team and with a new coach this year we are certainly looking for an improvement. I agree with the interjection which came from behind me that the last speech we heard was a shocking speech. It really was the greatest of claptrap. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  started off by chiding members of the Opposition for not discussing Labor policies and not bringing forward new Liberal policies. Then he proceeded to clown for 5 or 10 minutes reading out quite irrelevant cuttings from newspapers. Is this any sort of contribution to make to a serious discussion of the programme brought forward by the Government for the next 3 years? He said: 'You know, all they are doing is kicking the communist can'. All I can suggest to him is that there is no need to kick the communist can. The Australian Labor Party is beating it for everyone to hear, loud and clear. Then followed a most stupid statement. I wrote this down because I thought it was so incredible. The honourable member said: 'One of the most unjust, pieces of legislation ever introduced in a .so-called democracy'. This was his reference to conscription. Yet what happened in 1944, when not only was his Party in office but the honoured name of the electorate he represents was the name of the then Treasurer. At that time the Labor Party . brought in conscription which, according to the honourable member, is one of the most unjust pieces of legislation ever introduced into a so-called democracy. Members of the Labor Party know that their Party used it too. 
If I may coin a phrase, it's time for the Government to come down to earth and get its feet on to the ground, and by the ground I mean Australian ground and not Chinese ground. The Government has been active since it was elected in December, But active in whose interest? In a number of major matters, certainly not in the interests of the Australian nation. Some of its - actions on the domestic side have merit. Of course, the Government must be right some of the time. But this is the case only when viewed in isolation. Taken together, its decisions are fanning the. flames of inflation like a hot westerly pushes along a bush (fire, and it might be in my electorate or in the electorate of the honourable member for Chifley. In fact, the Government has been trying to create the impression that it is energetic and governing the country well just because it is churning out decisions with great speed, and in many cases with reckless abandon. 
Yes, and with little thought. Certainly, in many instances Ministers have been behaving like the prodigal son who, suddenly finding himself in possession of vast sums of money, seeks to distribute largesse without any thought for the future or how these gifts are to be paid for. 
I recently went through a list of the socalled 'achievements' of the present Government - I use the word in inverted commas. Basically the so-called achievements can be put into 3 categories. The first, of them is announcements of decisions which were initiated by the previous government or promised by the previous government. In some cases, of course, these are slightly different. They may have been broadened; they may have had a bit more money added to them. But one could go through a long list of announcements made by the, present Government for which it wishes to get kudos for repeating policies which had already been initiated by the previous government. 
If the honourable member wants me to list them, I shall go through the list. I did not want to bore the honourable member because it is quite a long list. First, we have additional grants to the arts; more aid for Indonesia - 1 think that the Government has promised an amount of Sim more than the $60m which the previous government had promised; then there is the announcement that the purchase of the Fill will proceed. Well, if ever there was a joke this is a joke, because there has never been any party which has denigrated a machine to such an extent as the Labor Party did that one. Then the first thing that Party does on gaining office is to announce that it will proceed with the purchase of this aircraft. Other announcements include the maintenance of the present 9 infantry battalions for the Army. But of course everyone knows that this will be at a much reduced strength. I understand that some of the battalions comprise less than 100 men. The Government has also made announcements about drawing up a plan for the development of the aircraft industry, portable pensions, preference for Australian firms where other aspects of tenders are equal. Of course, it is recognised that the previous government had made decisions of this type long before the Labor Party announced them. There was also the announcement to close up Norfolk Island as a tax haven. The previous Government had taken action there. The Government has also made an announcement about decentralisation. The previous Government set up NURDA and this Government has murdered NURDA. The Government intends to decentralise tertiary education facilities. We have been doing this for years, of course, but Labor does not even realise it is going on because it has hardly a member from the country. The Government has also announced the provision of boarding allowances for isolated children. This was a policy announced by our government which was not included in the 140 promises of the Labor 
Party. However the Labor Government has now picked it up and has said what a great thing it has done. So one could go on. 
The second category of Labor's achievements is decisions requiring more money, in some cases a vast deal more money. Already decisions made by the Labor government in a little over 2 months will add $330m in a full year to the Budget. As I've said, I do not quarrel with many of these decisions individually. A good case can be made out for more spending in such fields as pensions, education, hospitals, dental services and housing. But the government is promising everything but salvation. The government itself has no money. While it can run deficits for a while, sooner or later the people have to pay for what an apparently generous government hands out. And what this Government is promising is not just hand-outs but a shower bath. Our taxes are already high by world standards. How much higher can taxes go before there is a disincentive to people to continue working, knowing the Government gets most of what additional money they would earn? Yet tax the Government must if it is going to carry out its 'boom and bust' policies. And do not think for a moment that the $330m represents the end of Labor's lavish spending. It is only a beginning. We know that the ALP made 140 promises at the last election in order to attract that extra 2.7 per cent of votes which has given it its present majority. 
Already there are signs that the Government will not, or cannot, implement some of these promises. Such promises were just electoral bait, and will disappear down the unfortunate fish's throat now the fish has been hooked. But many decisions, even if they involve much less money than was promised, must add a vast sum to this and next year's Budgets. Some of these decisions are quite unnecessary. For example, we are told that the Australian Gaslight Co. is not to be allowed to build its pipeline from Gidgealpa - Moomba to Sydney - the Government will do it instead. We are entitled to ask why. Will the Government do it any cheaper, any quicker, any better? I am sure the answer in all 3 cases is certainly no. It is only to be done by the Government because it is part of its socialist philosophy. 
We can see once again the sort of socialist thinking which has led in England to the nationalisation of the steel industry. Look at what a tragedy this has been for the United 
Kingdom. A government-run pipeline grid will inevitably lead to inefficiencies and cost escalations which must be passed on either to the consumer or to the taxpayer. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  seems to ignore completely the fact that the Australian Gaslight Co., through its subsidiary to the Eastern Australian Pipeline Corporation, has already signed contracts and would lose millions of dollars if the Government tried to take over the project. So once again the taxpayer is to fork out - this time to the order of $200m. In fact we are now told that the $200m is to be only the first serving in a programme which will eventually cost anestimated $650m or perhaps considerably more - undoubtedly considerably more. As the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  said this afternoon, we have to make certain that our priorities are right. Are our priorities right in finding government money for something which private individuals are prepared and willing to do? Surely the Government money should be kept for those areas where it is needed and which are not attracted to private enterprise. So much for the so-called achievements of the Labor government in spending more of our money. And do not forget that because of revaluation there are going to be far fewer profits in the mining industry and other exporting industries which will be available for the Government to tax and therefore it will get far less tax. 
But the third area of government decisions really horrifies me. This is in the area of foreign affairs and defence. Here the Government has started out by asking itself the question: 'What can we do to weaken Australia's defence forces, her security and her alliances with her traditional allies?' If this was what it set out to do, it has achieved their objective remarkably efficiently in a very short time. Support for communists and denigration of our allies, not only by the Prime Minister but by any of his Cabinet who choose to shoot off his mouth has become the accepted mean; If it was not so disastrous to the nation it would be humorous to recall the words of the - American Ambassador who, just before the last election said that he did not see any variation in Australian-United States relations if the Australian Labour Party won the election. Could anyone have been so naive? 
I wonder whether he would be prepared to say that today? If he was so much out of touch it is no wonder that  Mr Nixon  has seen fit to replace him so quickly. And so Australia, which once was America's closest ally, has dropped in a few weeks to the bottom of the list, perhaps only slightly ahead of Cuba and Chile. Of all the actions taken to assist communists and fellow travellers, perhaps none was more flagrant than the action of immediately restoring a passport to the noted communist Wilfred Burchett. What an odd set of priorities it is that restores a passport to Burchett while on the same day it withdrawsthe Australian passport of Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins, a man who served this country with distinction and honour in the last World War. 
Let us look quickly at Burchett's record. One could, of. course, spend all day going through the masses of evidence available about his assistance to the communists and to. Australia's enemies whom our troops were actively fighting. He is described in a United States Senate -hearing on security as an agent for KGB, the- Soviet Police. There are many records of his having participated in interrogations, of United States airmen shot down in: Korea. These interrogations were designed to produce confessions. During them many prisoners died or disappeared. They, were usually conducted with the utmost brutality and can. fairly be described as being carried out with extreme and prolonged physical and mental torture. Such cases include that of  Colonel Maharen  the World War II ace who was kept in solitary confinement for over 3 months until he signed a purported confession. Such people were victims of Burchett's germ warfare propaganda campaign. Quinn and Enoch were 2 others. It is noted that -Burchett joined their interrogation group 'by invitation'. When the Australian troops were fighting in Vietnam Burchett went into South Vietnam with the Vietcong and made a propaganda film of their activities. This film was later smuggled into America to be used against the allies. Burchett's activities were not simply the right to dissent but the physical participation in acts which could be regarded , as criminal and treasonable. There is no doubt mat he was a direct and active participant in the politicomilitary struggles waged against Australian forces in this field. Yet this man. is one of the first to be welcomed by the new Government. Surely this is enough to make any decent Australian vomit. 
But as we glance through this list of decisions announced in the Speech we see more and more that the, guiding light behind many, if not most of them, is mat the Government should be seen by Labor's left wing supporters to be doing those things that undermine our security or assist the communists. Take the Services, for example. We heard tonight from some Government supporters about what this Government is going to do and how it is going to help the Services. By next June, or only  6  months after the Australian Labor Party came to office, the strength of the Army will be cut by about  10,000  to some  31,000.  Not only are conditions in a chaotic state while things are sorted out in the Army but many servicemen must be wondering whether they are redundant and if so whether they will be retired. And how will the Royal Australian Navy fare? Is it about to lose the  3  DDLs for which it fought so hard and which I and the previous Minister for the Navy,  Dr Mackay,  supported so strongly? This project after all is designed only to maintain the Navy's current destroyer strength. Of course it is an expensive programme but defence is expensive and half measures are no good. Because of the defence environment in which we exist, the Liberal Party gave this programme the highest of all priorities. Now it looks like being scrapped or delayed as does also the Cockburn Sound naval base project, if rumour is to be. believed. What a tragic outlook this is for our armed forces which, only  3  months ago were at the highest state of efficiency and morale that we have ever known in peace time. 
But even worse than this loss of efficiency and morale is the tragic blow to our security as a result of the incredible disclosures on our troops in Singapore. It would be almost impossible to imagine a more irresponsible action on the part of a Prime Minister, nor could one believe that a matter of this importance, could be handled so ineptly. As a responsible government we had a policy in the field of intelligence that, where national security was involved we did not confirm or deny any speculation about defence installations. This is a policy which previous Labor governments abided by. But now the present Prime Minister is rushing in to try to curry favour with some members of the, Press and Labor's left wing by making security leaks and disclosures about Australia's defence installations, even though he later admitted that some of the information obtained was extremely useful to Australia. It is time  Mr Whitlam  lost his preoccupation, indeed his obsession with China and became preoccupied with Australia. The whole shoddy incident of the so-called spies in Singapore only served to show the complete ineptness of the. Prime Minister's handling of the matter from start to finish. Why was this backgrounder given to some members of the Press and not to others? Why was it necessary for a government which allegedly believes in 'open government' to issue a D notice so soon after it came into office while previous non-Labor governments had not needed to do so for more than  10  years? 
Now pressure is being brought to bear on the Government for a further disclosure of defence secrets - this time concerning the joint Australian-American bases. I hope that the Government continues to resist this pressure. Could anyone in his wildest dreams imagine the Soviet Prime Minister disclosing what the Russians are doing at Tyuratom, or Plesetesk? Can we see the Chinese Premier giving a Press briefing on what goes on at Lop Nor? Of course we cannot. Where will it all end? How can any of our allies ever have any faith in us any more? We must be regarded universally as a most unreliable ally. And while the Government has been gaily rushing into recognition of Red China - upon what terms we do not know, except that we know that China got everything that it asked for - welcoming North Vietnamese trade unionists, lifting the ban on travel to North Vietnam and establishing diplomatic relations with East Germany and North Vietnam - it has done everything possible to undermine our assistance to our allies. 
What extraordinary double standards the present Government seems to operate. On the one hand North Vietnamese can be responsible for slaughter, murder and torture. Yet they are welcomed by the Labor Party with open arms. The same applies to Russia and China, both of whom operate a police state and both of whom in recent times have been responsible for committing mass murder amongst their own citizens. Yet their relations are on the up and up with the ALP. At the same time South Africans are treated like lepers. Their rugby team is not allowed to land here for fear it might contaminate us. The Rhodesians are not allowed to buy our wheat. The people who will suffer most by this ban, of course, will be the native Rhodesians - that is if the ban has any effect at all, as no doubt Rhodesia will be able to buy all the wheat she wants elsewhere. 
Of course no government, however hard it tried, could be wrong all the time. Some of the recent decisions have been good. The reorganisation of the defence Services is one with which I am basically in agreement and in fact I had written to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  suggesting to him a reorganisation along fairly similar lines to that undertaken by the present Government. But it is time  Mr Whitlam  lost his preoccupation - or is it obsession - with China and became preoccupied with Australia. In fact, it is more than time. 'It's time' has become a time bomb which has exploded and we are now contemplating the wreckage of our foreign affairs and defence policies. 
Does the Minister for Northern Development believe that Queensland coal is being sold overseas at less than its true value? 
When the Minister for Minerals and Energy referred to leaders in the mining industry as hillbillies and mugs, was this a reference to the fact that these people were unable to prevent heavy losses to their companies when the Australian dollar was revalued? Is he aware that most of these companies attempted to cover themselves against revaluation but that such cover could be arranged only under limited conditions and at a significant cost? Is he also aware that at the time when most of the iron ore contracts were written it was virtually impossible to write them in anything but United States dollars and that any clauses on revaluation would be legally unenforceable? If this is so, what does he think the mines should have done to cover themselves against these losses? 
The last decade has seen a tremendous development in the Australian mining industry, especially in the field of discoveries of ore bodies and their development. Over the period 1960-71 exports of minerals increased sixfold to a total of $ 1 , 290m in 1971. This spectacular increase led some people to believe that development would automatically proceed irrespective of whether the mining industry was encouraged or discouraged. In fact the present Government seems to take the view that all it has to do is to milk the mining industry so as to achieve everything it wants without any thought of what our customers require. 
The Government has shown itself completely ignorant of the major problems which have always been faced by miners, and appears to be well on the way towards killing the goose that laid the golden egg. In some cases decisions of the present Government made without even the relevant Minister being present have turned profitable projects into unprofitable projects overnight, and have made uneconomic,are bodies which were previously economic. In other cases off-the-cuff statements by Ministers have led to chaos in the industry, as no clear set of guidelines has been produced. One miner I know told me that he has funds in hand for further exploration, but he has no intention of using them until such time as he knows what government policy is. 
In fact chaos and confusion caused by recent government decisions and statements is so widespread that Australia is being openly referred to internationally as another banana republic. Ministers are shooting from the hip. They talk first and think afterwards. But they should realise that we are not operating in a sellers' market, nor do we have a monopoly of any minerals. 
Let us look at some of the recent decisions and statements which have undermined the morale of the Australian mining industry. Firstly, undoubtedly the greatest shock to the industry was that caused by the 2 recent revaluations of the Australian dollar. As my colleague, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  pointed out to the House earlier this month, the iron ore companies in the Pilbara alone will lose approximately $11 2m in income this year as a result of the decisions of December and February decisions which were taken without the Ministers responsible for fuel and power, industry and primary industries even being present. The loss in the value of long term contracts for all iron ore exporting companies approaches$1, 000m. 
There seems to be a view held in some quarters that revaluation has only affected those companies which have export contracts written in United States dollars, and theyare then told it was their fault for writing them in United States dollars, instead of some other currency, presumably Australian dollars. This is nonsense. While the companies with United States dollar contracts will suffer most, every exporting company has been hit by revaluation despite the general buoyancy of metal prices internationally. 
Look at recent reports of companies in this field. The recent report of Comalco stated: 
The December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar will have a significant adverse effect on the consolidated profit in 1973. At the date of this report, it has not been possible to assess the likely effect of currency changes resulting from the devaluation of the United States dollar 13th February 1973. 
And Bougaiuville Mining's Chairman stated: 
The decision of the Australian Government on 23rd December 1972 to up value the Australian dollar against the United States dollar will further reduce the Australian dollar proceeds of sales by Bougainville Copper although some short term protection was obtained by taking out forward cover prior to the revaluation. 
One can look at the Western Mining Corporation Ltd where we find again that the results of the joint venture on Geraldton iron ore have been seriously affected by the currency changes and the success of negotiations for an extension of the initial contract has also been jeopardised. So one finds this depressing similarity in virtually every report by every mining company that is coming out now. 
What has the Minister done about this situation? He has done  3  things. First he has abused the miners. He has sneeringly called some of the finest brains in Australia hill-billies and mugs. The Government said that they should not have written their contracts in United States dollars, even though this was *he only possible currency in which these long term contracts could have been written in  1964.  They were told that they allowed themselves to be picked off one by one by a powerful buying cartel. This ignores the fact that all export contracts for iron ore were approved by me and the Cabinet as being in line with current export prices. And they cannot have been too bad if these companies can still operate at a profit after a loss of  21  per cent in the value of the contracts in the last  14  months. 
Thirdly, they were told that they should have taken out forward exchange cover, even though this is available for only  6  months or in exceptional cases for  12  months. Any exchange clause in the contracts, of course, would have had no legal binding. 
The Minister has said that he expects the Japanese to renegotiate contracts written in United States dollars. But why should they? None of our major competitors revalued in December or February. This includes India, Canada, Brazil, Liberia, Chile and Peru. What we have is a self inflicted wound. Why should the Japanese re-open our contracts when they do not do it for any other suppliers, or when they cannot re-open their steel sales contracts? The Minister has had some discussions with the Government of Brazil, the idea being, apparently, that we should form a sellers cartel so as not to underbid one another in sales. But this will never work. There are many potential suppliers, and the contracts will go to those who can supply the best quality ores at the lowest prices, all else being equal. So we can say that the Minister has done absolutely nothing to soften the blow of revaluation. 
One could say a lot more on revaluation, but time is short. So let me come to the second body blow that has been struck at the Australian mining industry. Permits and licences required by miners either have not been supplied or their  issuance is extremely tardy.  All exploration licences in the Northern Territory will have lapsed by September  1973.  None has been renewed. Companies have to work out their programs a long way ahead, and uncertainties can kill exploration. A recent export permit for a shipment of zinc from Townsville was issued only hours before the ship berthed. Perhaps one of the reasons for this and other delays is the proliferation nf ministries which have a finger in the pie. Mining is meant to be under the control of  a  committee comprising the Ministers for the Northern Territory. Northern Development, Minerals and Energy. Aboriginal Affairs and the Environment and Conservation. To the best of my knowledge, this committee has not even met yet. Even if it does meet, it will be a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth. Meanwhile, farm-out and farm-in applications await the pleasure of the Minister, who is trying to get his sticky fingers on these areas for his socialist mining venture which he hopes to operate with the help of the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Statements have been made on processing demands, some of which are totally unreal and may cause deferral of some projects. We all want to see the maximum amount of processing undertaken in Australia. But our customers also want to undertake processing, so some give and take must occur. A rigid policy on processing can lead our customers to get their ores and minerals elsewhere. All of us want to see the greatest possible share of Australian equity in mining ventures in this country. I myself said in an address to the American Chamber of Commerce in Australia in Melbourne in  1968: 
The Government believes in a partnership between overseas and Australian investors where overseas capital is necessary for development. It considers that fears and misunderstandings are least where there is an Australian participation in shareholding and management and greatest where there is no Australian participation. 
Unfortunately, Australians were loath to put their money into many of these highly speculative ventures. Everyone wants to be on the winner of the Melbourne Cup when he sees it go past the post, but people tend to forget that to win you have to put your money on it before the start of the race. Now Australians are being prevented from doing what we and, I believe, the present 
Government would want them to do, namely, getting a greater share of our mineral resources. One of the ways of doing this is by Australians borrowing fixed interest money overseas and putting it into equity in Australian mines. But the Government's guidelines of 25 per cent of overseas borrowings being frozen makes borrowing virtually impossible. Money borrowed by an Australian overseas at 9 per cent will, of course, cost him 12 per cent. 
As though the Australian miner and investor had not been sufficiently scared already, a few other Ministers have weighed in with statements calculated to scare the daylights out of anyone still enterprising enough to want to help develop a mine in Australia. Firstly, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  tells us that up to 40 per cent of our bulk minerals must be carried in Australian bottoms in future. How and where are these bottoms to be obtained, and how much more are they going to cost to operate? Such a policy, even if desirable, must make mining more uneconomic. Then the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is out for his extra slice of the minerals cake. So-called tax anomalies are to be abolished, and we are to have a capital gains tax. No-one yet knows what rules will apply and whether tax will have to be paid on profits or paper profits from trading in mining shares. The only thing that is clear, as a member of the Melbourne Stock Exchange recently said, is that widespread apprehension about the policies of the Labor Government and their effect on business profits seems to be evident. 
Let me conclude by saying that 'it's time' that the Government showed some consideration for the mining industry - an industry which has helped Australia to greatness and which supplies much employment and needed overseas funds. It is time that the Government set down the rules of the game so that miners will know where they are going. It is time that the sloppy administration of the present Government came to an end. 
I am glad to have the opportunity to speak onthis Bill because I think it is extremely important that there should be-- 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Having been ruthlessly gagged last night by the new Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  I am glad to have the opportunity of .speaking at least in the Committee stage of this Bill. I understand that we are discussing clause 3. The Government proposes to repeal all of the disabilities for which the current Act provides arising out of remoteness or distance, and density or sparsity of population. The Government proposes to get rid of those. Qf course, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  made great play on what he calls the present situation in Queensland. Let me repeat to honourable members what was said by my colleague, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  earlier this afternoon and remind the honourable member for Bowman that in earlier days and under a Labor government, Queensland had probably one of the worst gerrymanders which has ever been seen in the history of Australia and possibly of the world. 
I have an article headed 'Fraudulent Electoral Systems in Queensland' written by T. C. Truman which states: 
No serious students of Queensland politics doubt that the Electoral Districts Act of 1949 was a schema devised by the Labor Party to keep them in office despite the movement of opinion against them. And it was a successful frustration of the democratic process, for in the elections of 1950 the Liberal and Country Party team won a majority of the votes, actually 49.7 per cent, but gained only 31 of tha 75 seats, whereas Labor polled but 46.5 per cent of the votes yet managed to get 42 of the seats. Very frankly the Labor Premier Hanlon said . . . 'I do not think that on the old redistribution we would have been too secure at all'. 
What a masterpiece of understatement. Let me tell honourable members how they did it. In the metropolitan area where there were 24 seats, each seat had a quota of 10,715. Then the quota for other areas decreased until it reached what the honourable member for Fisher described as the shearers seats or, in some cases, the mining seats. There were 10 of those seats in which the quota of 4,613 was less than half of the quota applying to seats in the metropolitan area. The article continues. 

 Mr Hanlon, the Premier, justified this arrangement favouring the north and the west with arguments based on the vast size of outback electorates. . . . 
The devil can quote scripture sometimes. It is interesting to note that a Labor Premier acknowledged that there were reasons why the more remote areas should have a smaller quota. For once, we would be on the same ground as the Labor Party. The article goes on to quote the Premier as justifying this arrangement as follows:   . . with arguments based on the vast size of outback electorates, the necessity for special attention to under-developed areas and the need to avoid domination of the State by the capital city. 
The person who wrote the article, which I advise all honourable members, particularly the Minister for Services and Property, to read said: 
These arguments for unequal electorates and special weighting of country areas came strangely from a party that has always placed great emphasis on the equalitarian aspects of democracy. 
It just shows that when there is any possibility of obtaining advantage from a rearrangement of electorates, the Australian Labor Party is in there, boots and all, and it does not matter what its policy is. Of course, that is what the Government is attempting to do in the Bill we are now discussing. No-one believes for a moment that the Government would bring forward a Bill like, this if it thought the Bill would disadvantage the Government or even if it thought the Bill would have no advantage. 
A very thorough assessment of this Bill by the Liberal Party organisation showed that, on the same vote that occurred on 2nd December last year, and being most optimistic, that is, optimistic from our point of view, the redistribution we are now discussing would have increased the majority of the Australian Labor Party from 9 to 16. At the most pessimistic, again from our point of view, such a redistribution would have increased the Government's majority from its present figure of 9 to 36. Obviously, the Government is trying to create a situation in which it would not need to get any more votes to win more seats or, perhaps, the Government wants to win the same number of seats with many less votes than it received on 2nd December. 
Let me refer to another point. It should not be necessary to repeat this but, unfortu nately, some honourable members are not prepared to accept the situation. The Liberal Party assessment was the result of a thorough investigation of the Bill by the organisation of the Party and our decision to oppose this Bill strenuously was taken as a result of that assessment. Our decision was not taken as a result of any division between the Liberal and Country parties or anything like that. People love to put over that story. The only reason the Liberal Party has adopted the stand that it has is that it believes the present system is fair and that the system being put forward by the Labor Party would be unfair. At present there is no doubt that, with one exception in the last 25 years or more, the Party which received the majority of votes became the Government. We have only to look at the result of the last election where the Labor Party received 49.7 per cent of the vote and won 53.6 per cent of the electorate. That is a fair system. 
The proposed system of the Labor Party is only the first of 2 steps. Let us realise that this measure is setting things up sq that the Government can then appoint the Distribution Commissioners. . One would not need to stretch things too far. to say that the new. Commissioners will not come from the Adelaide Club or the Melbourne Club. I . would think that the ones who are. not named certainly will not have pro-Liberal sympathies. But of course, that is the second step. The Government would have a redistribution and create a situation in which the Labor Party, with the same number of votes that it received at the last election, would win a vastly increased majority. 
I believe we should include disabilities for remoteness or distance, and density or sparsity of population. Every honourable member who represents a country seat realises the problems of a country seat. Mine is not a large country seat when it is compared with some of the enormous seats such as Kalgoorlie. The electorate of Kalgoorlie represents 92 per cent of Western Australia. Yet, the Government is saying that this area should be larger. The same applies to the electorate of Darling. I suppose that Darling comprises one-third or one-half of New South Wales, but the Labor Party says that that is not enough. The honourable member ought to look after more. In the electorate of Darling there are 45,000 electors. To bring that figure up to the 60,000 quota one would have to me by the. Chief Electoral Officer. They will take 15,000 electors from Riverina. Then of course Riverina would go down to 30,000 and that would mean taking another 30,000 from my electorate or from Hume. So it goes on. The only reason why this is being done is that Labor wins very few country seats and wants to get rid of as many country seats as possible. I think, on a rough estimate, Labor won 12 out of about 44 seats that could be called country seats. Of course, if there are fewer of these there are fewer that Labor loses. What the Government wants to do is so to distribute the electorates that the big majorities in the metropolitan areas are reduced and some of that vote is moved out in order to make what was a marginal seat a strong Labor seat. It is not very hard to see through these proposals. 
No-one disagrees with the slogan of one man one vote, but what this really means is that in a democracy the government should be won by the party which obtains a majority of votes. This is What happens now. As I have mentioned, there has been only one occasion when it did not happen and that was on a redistribution which was carried out by the Labor Party. As the Minister said, the results must reflect the will of the majority. The Minister quoted a judgment in the United States of America. But let us realise that there are vast differences in all democracies from the largest to the smallest. We are told that in France there is a very considerable variation in the size of electorates. There may be as few as 25,000 in one seat and as many as 150,000 in another seat. This occurs also in Great Britain, the United States and almost any other country one could mention. The Minister was given the job of perpetuating the Labor Party in office, and this is the way he intends to do it. Naturally, none of us on this side supports what he intends to do. 
We are debating a motion moved by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  to establish a joint parliamentary committee to inquire into and report on such matters relating to the Northern Territory as are referred to it by the Minister for the Northern Territory or by resolution of either House of the Parliament. It is intended that this Committee should have on it 3 House of Representatives members from the Government side, one nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, who would be a member of the Liberal Party, and one nominated by the Country Party, and 2 senators would be nominated by the Government and 2 nominated by the Opposition. This would mean a total of 9, of which the Government would have 5 and the Opposition parties 4. The  chairman  is to be nominated by the Prime Minister from one of the members from the Government side on the Committee. I will later be putting forward the same view that my colleague the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  put forward in relation to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, namely, that the  chairman  should be nominated by the Committee and not by the Prime Minister. 
BasicallyI can say that the Opposition believes that it should accept this offer, subject to 2 matters that I will bring up. But I believe that some members have grave doubts as to how effective the Committee will be and how much it will achieve. I hope they are wrong. It can only be a worthwhile committee if it has referred to it matters of major importance for investigation and report. We recall that in earlier times the then Opposition refused to join the Foreign Affairs Committee because it did not have the right to initiate inquiries and could report only on matters referred to it by the Minister and - I am not certain of this - by both Houses. Certainly for some 6 years the Opposition took its bat home, if that is the right expression, and refused to join that Committee. That enabled the Government to have more members on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Of course nowadays it is an all party Committee. I do not think we should do what the then Opposition did, but I believe that the importance of the proposed Committee will depend on what it is asked to report on. 
My colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will later move an amendment on the grounds that there should be an advancement of political responsibility in the Northern Territory and that the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory should report on that advancement and on any constitutional reform, because one of the great problems in the Northern Territory is exactly where the Northern Territory Legislative Council fits into the whole set-up of government. As I say, I hope that this Committee will have referred to it matters on which it can make a judgment and that its function will not merely be a matter of studying what goes on in the Northern Territory but reporting on matters of importance. Of course there will be opportunities for Opposition reports or an individual member to make an individual report. There are a great many matters of major importance. 1 do not want to canvass all these, but I hope that some of the matters that will be brought before the Committee will be such matters as education facilities in the Northern Territory. I have already mentioned greater political autonomy for the Northern Territory and the position of the Legislative Council in particular. Mining leases and prospecting leases are causing certainly the miners great concern, because I understand that these will have expired by September this year, and people just do not know where they stand or whether they can work out a program or a budget for future prospecting. The sooner this matter is resolved the better. 
The future of agriculture in the Northern Territory is a most important matter. My colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  I am sure all honourable members will remember, was a member of the Foster Committee, which made a report on this matter, and he is extremely knowledgeable in this field. I think one of the conclusions he came to was that at Katherine the more peanuts fanners grew the more money they lost. I hope that things have improved in the Northern Territory since then. This is undoubtedly one of the major matters of importance. Another is the development of the Northern Territory section of the Ord River. It will not be verylong before water will be available from the major dam on the 
Ord, and obviously quite a large part of the land which is commanded by the Ord River lies in the Northern Territory and it will be necessary to determine how this land is allocated and what is grown on it. This is again a major problem and obviously one on which this committee should report. 
There is a vast field of Aboriginal problems and also the question of urban development. I understand that 232 square miles of land has been acquired just outside Darwin. One will want to know what it has been acquired for. Another problem is the development of the Royal Australian Air Force base. We in the former Government had plans in hand that we were looking at before we went out of government. Obviously there are problems as to whether the base should remain where it is at the Darwin Airport and, if it remains there, to what extent should it be developed as part of the major RAAF bases in Australia, with particular reference to whether Darwin would be a satisfactory place for stationing some of the fighter aircraft now in the RAAF. There are problems of electricity and water supply, especially in the small and remote towns and there are problems associated with roads. One could go on almost indefinitely. 
The existence of these problems shows that a great deal of work will have to be done by this committee, so I repeat that it should not be just a study group to inform members and perhaps to praise the Government for what it has done. I hope it will do a lot more than that. We are fortunate in having in this House, and in particular on our side of politics, people with considerable experience in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been in the Territory for more than 30 years and has seen virtually everything that goes on from farming and grazing to urban development. He is a person who I am sure could make a great contribution, particularly, as the Minister said earlier, as parliamentary committees tend to be committees which do not work on party lines or divide on party lines. I am sure that this committee will not; that it will look at these problems from the point of view of the best interests of the people of the Northern Territory. 
We have on our side also 2 previous Ministers who were responsible for the administration of the Northern Territory - the honour able member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I have mentioned the honourable member for Wakefield, who has had considerable experience in the Northern Territory. I am afraid it is unfortunate that we are to be limited to 2 members of the Opposition from the House of Representatives on this committee, because there will not be room on the committee for all the members who have had considerable experience in the Northern Territory. I myself have taken a great interest in the Northern Territory, particularly when I was Minister for National Development and in charge of northern development, although I visited it on many occasions when 1 was Minister for Air, Minister for Education and Science and Minister for Defence. I believe that there is in this chamber a great deal of experience in this field, and I hope that this will be put to very good use. 
The Opposition goes along with this motion, but the proof of the pudding will be in the eating. Success depends on whether it is a committee which just studies and does not do very much more. If this is the case, I think some of our members might not want to continue to serve on it. If it proves to he more effective - I certainly hope that it does - and if it makes useful and valuable reports, I am sure all our members will continue to want to serve on it. One problem, of course, is that the Committee can operate really effectively only if it contacts the people of the Northern Territory. It cannot sit in Canberra, hear a few officials and decide what should be done. I believe there must be a free flow, firstly, of people coming to Canberra from the Territory to give their views and, secondly of the committee going to the Northern Territory to see people, interview them and get their views. This will pose a problem of time and travel. I should like the Minister to consider whether certain people from the Northern Territory should not receive financial assistance to cover fares and perhaps expenses when they come to Canberra, as undoubtedly they will. Among those people presumably will be Legislative Councillors, the Administrator and perhaps our old friend, the Mayor of Darwin. 
I do not know whether Alice Springs hai a mayor or a shire president. 
Yes, of course, Jock Nelson. I am sorry, I forgot he is the Mayor. It will be necessary for people to meet the Committee and I suggest they should be given facilities to enable them to attend. I close by mentioning a matter that was referred to by the honourable member for Parramatta when the House was considering the motion to appoint a similar committee for the Australian Capital Territory, namely, whether the Prime Minister should choose the  chairman  of the Committee. This, perhaps, is a minor matter. In many cases the Committee would probably have the same  chairman  whether the Committee chose him or the Prime Minister did so. However, this may not always happen. In fact, I can recall when I was a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs I was elected as  chairman.  In those days the Government members elected the  chairman  and the Opposition members the  Deputy Chairman.  I was elected as  chairman  but I do not believe that at that time had the  chairman  been elected on the nomination of the Prime Minister the Committee would have had the same  chairman.  However, I will let that pass. 
I was a little intrigued when the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  in answer to my colleague the honourable member for Parramatta, said that by having the Prime Minister appoint the chairmen of the 2 proposed Committees it would be in line with all other committees. I have examined the list of committees which appear at the back of the notice paper to see what committees the Parliament has. A number of them have as a member  Mr Speaker  who is automatically  chairman  of those committees but every other committee, which does not have  Mr Speaker  as a member elects its own  chairman.  I have referred to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am not sure whether there has been any change in the form of procedure in electing its  chairman.  Someone said that there has been a change recently, but this has not been drawn to my attention. The Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works elects its own  chairman.  I think this is good, because the members know one another intimately and there is no chance of members of the Opposition ganging up with a Government supporter to appoint an Opposition member as  chairman.  It is always understood that a Government appointed member will be  chairman. 
The same situation applies with the Joint Statutory Committee of Public Accounts. In fact that Committee recently appointed as  Chairman  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who at present is sitting so much on his own on the back bench. The honourable member for Ballaraat  (Mr Erwin)  for many years was  chairman  of the Publications Committee. The members of that Committee have now elected the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  in his stead. The Privileges Committee has not yet elected its  chairman  but it has always been the practice of that Committee when a matter is referred to it to meet and elect one of its members as  chairman.  It seems that the practice in the past has been for committees to elect their own chairmen. There is ample precedent for committee members meeting together and electing their  chairman  rather than this appointment being made by the Prime Minister. From the Prime Minister's point of view this practice could perhaps help him. Instead of his having to lay his hands on one of the members and give him his blessing he would not have the odium of electing one person perhaps in opposition to another. This matter should be left to the committee. 
Having said that, I, and the Opposition, support this motion generally. However, we believe that the effectiveness of the Committee will depend very much on how the Committee works and what work it is given to do. 1 understand that my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will make a strong plea that the first work the Committee should be asked to consider is the advancement of political responsibility and constitutional reform for the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory. He will be moving an amendment along those lines. I had intended to move an amendment, which I had shown to the Minister, that the Committee, before the commencement of business, elect one of its members to be  Chairman,  but I do not think it is necessary to move the amendment and press it to a vote at this point. This can be left to the Senate, if it is so minded, to consider. 
This whole story which has been unfolded tonight is really just a storm in a teacup. In his blustering manner which is so characteristic of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  he has made a great point of how he has been threatening and standing over some of the oil companies. 
it is strange that the companies the Minister picks out seem to be the Australian managed companies, notably the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Woodside-Burmah Oil NL. I shall refer to BHP. That company was not referred to in the list given by the Minister but he referred to the company in the House last week and said that he  d  not received the information whir'- 'e required from it. What is the situation? Under the Victorian legislation there ure pint .is for 2 types of licences. One is a permit to explore and the other is a licence to produce. So far as the permits are concerned, all 'he information required by the Designated Authority has been received by it. However, there is a small backlog of information in relation to the licence to produce because 'he Victorian Department of Mines has hat! a problem with the lack of a suitable petroleum geologist. That position has now been rilled and the backlog is now being overcome. Surely that is a pretty minor matter to bring before this House. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy has made it clear that he will show the oil companies who is master and who is servant, ls there really any need for this? Every company wants to have good relations with the Government. I am sure that this applies to every company which is seeking oil. Of course these companies will comply with every reasonable request. It is not always easy to do so, particularly as, in some cases, the companies are operating in extremely difficult conditions in remote areas. Another factor is the problem of cores. All companies realise that they must supply cores if they accept an oil search subsidy from the Government. 
That is completely wrong. 
Do honourable members realise the problems of core cutting? If the drilling is at a depth of 10,000 feet, it is necessary to pull up, unscrew and stack the drilling pipes, put on the core cutter and go down again. This procedure is expensive. This is why the companies are trying to get some other means of obtaining cores such as by the use of a side wall slicer, which make it easier to obtain cores. I am informed by WoodsideBurmah Oil NL that as a result of the request by the Government it has supplied a very much larger number of cores in recent times. I am sure that this company, from the correspondence, has always done its utmost to co-operate with all governments. I quote its reply which was sent to the Minister for Minerals and Energy recently. It states: 
The Board of Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L. was surprised and disturbed to read in this morning's press remarks attributed to you in Parliament yesterday criticising us for not supplying information to the Government. 
Please let me assure you again that at all times this company has been fully aware of its responsibilities under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, 1967 and to the best of our understanding had satisfied the Commonwealth and State governments in this respect. 
We have taken great care to keep the Designated Authority in Western Australia supplied with information required under the Act, in some cases have exceeded those requirements, and would have no reason whatsoever for withholding the same information from the Commonwealth when it was requested. 
In recent months we have discussed the matter of supplying information at various levels in both State and Federal Governments and have repeated assurances of our willingness to co-operate fully in this area. We have both verbally and in writing asked for a meeting with those concerned in your Ministry to discuss the information required to ensure no possibility of misunderstandings. 
You were reported to have said 'it was difficult to obtain information from Woodside-Burmah'. This has not been the case and we again repeat our desire to work closely with Government as has been our policy since we commenced operation. 
The question of reserves of natural gas on the North West Shelf was also reported to have been raised. We agree we were reluctant last December to make a public statement about recoverable reserves of natural gas. 
The letter continues: 
This reluctance was quite understandable in view of the difficulty in giving an accurate assessment before full reservoir studies had been completed. At that time we pointed out that it was necessary to drill a number of wells and to conduct extensive reservoir studies before any responsible or meaningful statement could be made. 
In view of the recent independent studies by our consultants revising our preliminary reserve estimates for North Rankin we believe our attitude at that time was quite correct and has been fully vindicated. 
It finishes by stating: 
We can assure you  Mr Minister  it is not necessary, nor has it ever been necessary, for threats to be made to obtain information from us. We stand ready at all times to work with and discuss with Government Authorities our exploration and development activities in Western Australia. 
Let me come back to that last small portion of the letter because the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has been interjecting about the fact that WoodsideBurmah agreed that it was reluctant last December to make a public statement. Of course it was reluctant. Anyone who knows anything about mines would realise that nothing can be more disastrous than to put forward a statement of reserves, be they minerals, oil, gas or whatever until they are really accurate figures. We all know the problems that have existed in the past and I was surprised to hear the Minister for Minerals and Energy say that if they do not make an assessment of reserves, the value of the shares on the stock exchange could be affected. What could affect the value of shares on the stock exchange more than putting out an early report before it was really accurate? 
As I said, this decision was vindicated in this case because in the case of the North Rankin well the Company had to reduce the estimate of the quantity of reserves from 10.7 billion cubic feet to 7.9 billion cubic feet of gas. Of course, we have seen this happen in other cases. I know that all of us recall the unfortunate affair of the assessment by Queensland Mines Ltd of its Nabarlek field. 
Nothing could be worse than to make an assessment too early, ahead of time, before the prospect had been fully drilled, cored and assessed. But I state again that the  Chairman  of Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L.,  Mr Donaldson,  believes that he has given everything that he is possibly required to give and, in some cases, more. He recently asked  Mr May,  the Designated Authority and the Minister for Mines in Western Australia, whether he had received all that he wanted and  Mr May  said that he had. In fact, if honourable members care to look at the Western Australian Hansard of 22nd March - I do not have a copy in front of me - they will see that the Designated Authority,  Mr May,  said that Woodside-Burmah had been co-operative. In fact, I think he said 'extremely co-operative'. 
But what is the story in this case? On 5th April 1972, Woodside-Burmah was sent a circular request from the Under-Secretary for Mines of Western Australia. A similar circular went to a large number of companies seeking further information. Unfortunately, this letter was not received by Woodside-Burmah. It is of interest to note that the letter was not registered. If it was important, one would have expected that it would have been registered or that it would have been followed up. But neither of these things happened. In about December or January, Woodside-Burmah had its attention drawn to the fact that there was still some information which it was expected to give. The company has done this as well as it can. I believe that the situation now is satisfactory. In fact, the Minister believes it is satisfactory because, in his reply to the company on 2nd March 1973 he said that the Acting Director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources reported that there was then no backlog of material from Western Australia in respect of wells or geophysical survey, that the situation was generally satisfactory in regard to the receipt of current statutory and operational material and that there was still some delay in the receipt of weekly progress reports, but that action to rectify this had been taken. On 8th March - the following week - the Director advised that the Bureau's assessment of gas reserves on the north-west shelf should be completed by 19th April. So, as I said, 1 think the situation now is satisfactory. 
I said that this was a storm in a teacup. Perhaps I can change the metaphor and say that the Minister is attempting to make a mountain out of a molehill. He threatens drastic action. Why he ever saw fit to table this correspondence is quite beyond my comprehension. It shows that the Minister has once again demonstrated that he is temporarily unfitted to hold the important office which he now holds, in view of the views he holds not only on mining but also on miners. 
This is a major policy statement which has been made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I should think that he has been preparing it for some months. It was first seen by me this morning. I am not complaining about that, because we had 2 hours notice, but it is not easy for an Opposition spokesman looking at a major policy statement such as this to comprehend everything that is included in it, and, of course, one has no opportunity of referring it to the executive of the Liberal Party. Having said that, I am anxious to take the earliest opportunity to comment on some of the matters which the Minister has raised in his statement. The first point, of course, is that he acknowledges what has been acknowledged by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  namely the outside control under which the Government functions. This confirms the statement of the Prime Minister that he is obliged in Government to act in conformity with the decisions made at the Australian Labor Party Conference held in Launceston in 1971. This brings us back to the whole question of who runs the Labor Party or who runs the Government when 
Labor is in office. It is not run by Cabinet; it is run by the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference which met 2 years ago. It is interesting - obviously this is getting under the skin of Opposition members - to look at the composition of this Conference to find out just how its policies are made. When the Opposition was in government, policies were made by Cabinet as a result of information papers which were presented to it by departments which are expert in this field, particularly the Department of National Development, the  Bureau of  Mineral Resources, and the Department of the Treasury, and chewed over. But the Labor Party made its policies at the Launceston conference and, no doubt, will do the same at the new conference which is soon to be held in Surfers Paradise. 
The meat of the statement can be divided into 2 parts. The first is that this is an obvious implementation of the Labor Party's socialisation pledge. The second is that the Labor Party is using new words to dress up, as part of a public relations campaign, actions which were being undertaken by the previous Government. The Labor Party is using these magnificent new words - 'energy budget' and authorities' to replace 'the Minister' and 'the Department'. Here we have the perfect socialist state. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was attempting to laugh as if there was not a socialist objective in the  Labor  Party. Let me, in case he has forgotten, read it out and read out also the pledge  that he  signed. This is what the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy signed in earlier days: 
I also pledge myself to actively support and defend at all times the Party's objective - the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. 
Of course they have changed this. 
I am glad to know that this is supported by the Minister for Labour. The Labor Party's objective now is democratic socialisation. It was changed a bit because it was thought that this was somewhat unpopular so the Labor Party now calls it democratic socialisation' - whatever that might mean. I do not see what democratic means in this context - the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. 
Labor Party or a debate on the Minister's statement relating to a petroleum search policy? 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question in his capacity as Foreign Minister. Is it correct, as reported, that  President  Thieu, the  President  of South Vietnam, is proposing to visit Australia and other countries in our neighbourhood in the near future? If this is so, will the Prime Minister welcome this visit from the head of a friendly country with which we have long had diplomatic relations? If he proposes to welcome  President  Thieu how can he permit one of his most senior Ministers to welcome to Australia members of the Vietcong, an organisation dedicated to overthrow the Government of that friendly country? 
Naturally the Opposition supports this Bill. I say naturally because, of course, the initial water resources measurement was instituted some 10 or so years ago by a Liberal-Country Party government. In fact, the Australian Water Resources Council was set up in 1964 by the government of which I was a member. The Council immediately adopted as one of the basic things which had to be done by all water authorities in Australia the need for an accelerated program to measure our surface and our underground water. The Council had as its principal objective the provision of a comprehensive assessment on a continuing basis of Australia's water resources and the extension of measurement and research so that future planning could be carried out on a sound and scientific basis. One of the first things done by the Council was to assess what were the water resources of Australia. Such an assessment had never previously been made. Any assessment that had been made up to that time had been conducted State by State but this work had never been done on a broad Commonwealth basis. The results of this assessment were rather surprising. From the first assessment it became apparent that the total average discharge of the whole of Australia - and this figure included Tasmania - was only about 280 million acre feet per annum. More than half of this discharge had to be guessed because adequate records were not available. In addition, much of this discharge was in the north of Queensland, the north-west of Western Australia and in the south-west of Tasmania, areas which are wild and which in many cases could not be used for the storage of water. Therefore this assessment of the discharge of water was the first task to be carried out in the program to estimate Australia's water resources. Everyone knows that Australia is the driest continent. In fact the total annual average discharge is estimated to be even less than the discharge of the St Lawrence River which is by no means one of the largest rivers in the world. 
In order to assist in this accelerated program the States had to guarantee that they would not only continue but would accelerate their programs. The Commonwealth initially made a grant of $2.8m in 1964. Three years later that amount went up to $4.5m and a further 3 years later to $8.2m. The amount proposed under this legislation is $15. lm, an increase of $6.9m or some 85 per cent. I am sure that everyone on both sides of the House who has any regard for water conservation will welcome this increased expenditure and congratulate the Government on continuing the program which, as I said, was started by the previous Government some 10 years ago. The Commonwealth will now meet half the cost of the programs submitted by the States. I know that there are people in Australia - unfortunately too many of them sometimes - who are opposed to water conservation or water assessment in any form. They will ask why it is necessary to spend sums such as this and to match the State grants in order to bring forward this accelerated program. Before almost anything can be done with water it is necessary to know what is the quantity and the quality of the water available. Water resources data needs to be gathered over a considerable period of time. The available water supply with or without storage has to be estimated. 
No water storage, major or minor, can be planned in Australia today unless there is a fair idea of the amount of water available. Of course, this is necessary to determine the safe yield from the reservoir. Some people think that the size of the reservoir is the only thing that matters. This is probably one of the things which matters least. A lot more water may be drawn from a small dam with a large safe yield than from a large dam with a small safe yield. An example of this is the Fairbairn Dam in Queensland, which I am afraid has a low yield owing to the fact that it is built in a fairly dry area. Although it is an extremely large dam - the largest in Queensland at present - the safe yield from the dam is very small. By comparison, the Ord River dam, which has perhaps only 3 times as great a volume, has a yield 10 times that of the Fairbairn Dam. These are the sorts of facts which it is necessary to know, as well as such things as the safe draw and the design of the dam and the spillway. All these things must be designed with a knowledge of what the draw and the resources in the particular river are. I believe it is correct to say that the Burrinjuck Dam, which is not far from here, was designed without a full knowledge of the amount of water which was likely to come from the catchment. I understand that in the early days the engineers were extremely worried because the amount of water in the spillway was very much larger than had been estimated and they were concerned that the dam could have been carried away. 
Yes. The honourable member is perfectly correct. It is necessary when designing stormwater drains, bridges, culverts, floodways and so many other things that the necessary knowledge be available. The second reason why it is necessary to have this assessment program is to assess the underground water supply. There are vast areas in Australia where our knowledge of the underground water is inadequate. We should know the quantity, the quality and the amount that can be drawn without drawing the aquifer down too far. In fact, it is interesting to note that the next Bill on the Daily Programme provides for the construction of a pipeline into a very dry area of South Australia. This pipeline can be constructed because of the discovery, under the water resources measurement legislation, of the Polda aquifer or basin which has a large supply of good quality water. That is a direct yield from the amount of money that we are making available and from the work that is being done by States and the Commonwealth on the measurement of Australia's water resources. 
I am sure that we will come to know that in other areas there are adequate sources of water. Around Alice Springs and north of Alice Springs some large aquifers have been outlined. I believe that this program is an extremely beneficial move. It is planned to increase the number of stations on which recording equipment is placed in Australia from about 1,400 at the time that the previous Government introduced the first Act of this kind, to 2,800. In other words the number has been almost doubled within a year or two. I believe that very good progress has been made towards achieving this figure. It has also been possible to install automatic recorders in many places. These save the cost of people going daily to areas to record the actual flow. On the other hand, of course, these recorders are expensive and they still have to be accessible and to be read on occasions. But great progress has been made. We will not get the full benefit from some of these 2,800 stations for perhaps another 10 or 20 years until they have recorded the resources of Australia for a considerable length of time. The Opposition heartily supports this measure. We are delighted to know that what we started has progressed so well. I congratulate the Government on the amount which it has made available and the increase which it has made available to see that this work proceeds. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.55)- It is important that while we are considering these grants to the States for water measurement programs we also give some consideration to what is happening to our handling and utilisation of our meagre water supplies. In my electorate there is reason for dissatisfaction in this regard. If we are increasing our grants to the States to allow surface water measurement programs totalling $13.7m and underground water measurement programs totalling $16.5m, we have a responsibility to the people we represent, in regard to waterways on which millions of dollars of taxpayers' money have already been spent, to see that the quality and quantity of these waters are preserved and used to the best advantage of all water users and are not allowed to be sabotaged by the greed or lack of concern by one State for another. 
This is especially so when we are told by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  that in order that objectives endorsed by the Water Resources Council may be achieved the Government is making available $15.1m by way of grant to the States for planned programs in the next 3 years. He has informed us also that this is an increase of almost 85 per cent in Commonwealth aid over the past 3 years. Anyone familiar with the driest parts of Australia would realise how important it is to know what the stream flow is over a number of years - years in which there have been a number of floods as well as a number of crippling droughts. This knowledge is essential from an engineering as well as from an economic point of view. As a member representing one of the driest parts of New South Wales, the Western Division, I fully appreciate the grants to the States. 
The measurement of the streamflow is important not only from the point of view of the volume of water, but also from that of the reliability of supply. It is just as important that where there is a reliable streamflow consideration be given to the quality of the water. One would expect every State sharing in this grant of $15.1m to play its part to protect the quality and the quantity of the water of our great streams. But as far as I can gather from the evidence that I have seen, the Victorian Government, while expecting millions to investigate water measurement for the benefit of that State, appears to have little or no concern for water that flows into other States. 
I refer in particular to the situation at Barr Creek and Lake Hawthorn, where the Victorian Government has the responsibility of pumping high saline water inland to evaporation basins in order that the water will not run back into the Murray River. The announcement made a few weeks ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that discussions were taking place between the Premiers of New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria concerning measures necessary to reduce salinity in the waters of the Murray River was welcomed by citrus and vine fruit growers in the Buronga, Coomealla and Wentworth districts. However, the statement prompted one grower to write to me and ask that I should pass on the information that following the recent rains the flow in the River Murray increased and the Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has been discharging a large flow of highly saline water - 3,000 ppm - from Lake Hawthorn into the Wentworth lock pool upstream from the Coomealla and Curlwaa pumps. 
This practice has been the concern of growers for many years and resulted in many protests being made to the Victorian Government. But the selfish practice which is damaging some of the best citrus and grape vines in Australia continues without any apparent concern for those further down the river. Part of the letter read: 
About 4 years ago the Federal Government gave Victoria $1.6m to instal electric pumps on Lake Hawthorn and several miles of piping to take highly saline water to evaporation basins well back from the River Murray but it claimed the Victorians used some of the grant to excavate a large earth channel to allow large quantities of highly saline drainage water to flow straight back into the Murray River. 
If this is correct, and there is some evidence to support the statement, surely we have no justification to spend the people's money on grants for water investigation when we cannot control this type of thing between the States. A further letter from the Curlwaa Salinity Committee states: 
We are extremely disappointed and distressed with the Prime Minister's statement, which is the answer to 2 years of repeated appeals by a salinity committee to the various Governments to do something positive in reducing the salinity of Murray water where it flows through our district. 
The means to reduce the salinity are clearly stated in the report of the Gutteridge Committee, which was released in 1570, after 2 years investigations. lt would seem none of the Parliamentarians present at the 2nd March 1973 Meeting bothered to read this report, perhaps they, are unaware of its existence. 
The position as we see it is we are back where we were at the end of 1967, when the Government of the day decided to employ Gutteridge, Hoskins and Davey of Sydney and Hunting Technical Services Ltd of London to investigate the Murray water salinity. Their report contains all the information that the Steering Committee needs to make a start on diverting saline drainage water away from the Murray River without delay. 
This information was obtained from the 3 State Water control departments, the only competent source available to the newly formed steering committee. 
Here's hoping that  Dr Cass  is more successful with the State Ministers for Water Supply than  Mr Johnson  is with the State Ministers for Housing. 
I do not claim that everyone who writes a letter outlines the true position but surely claims made in letters should be investigated. 1 believe that the last 3 annual reports of the River Murray Commission more than indicate that the growers in this area have just reason to complain. On page 5 of the 1969-70 report of the River Murray Commission the following appears: 
During the past year, the Barr Creek pumps diverted for evaporation in Lake Tutchewop, a volume of 6,810 acre feet containing 23,450 tons of salt. The Lake Hawthorn pumps near Mildura diverted to inland evaporating basins a volume of 2,150 acre feet containing 7,590 tons of salt. 
As was discussed in last year's report, due to the limited evaporating capacity of the storage basins, it is not possible or necessary to pump continuously, from Barr Creek or Lake Hawthorn. During the oast year, advantage was taken of  a  number of Murray flushes to release saline water from Barr Creek and Lake Hawthorn. 
In the Commission's 1970-71 report there is a similar statement but the figures are different. The report states: 
Two Victorian salt disposal schemes at Barr Creek near Kerang and Lake Hawthorn near Mildura were operated and prevented saline drainage waters reaching the Murray. During the past year, the Barr Creek pumps diverted for evaporation in Lake Tut.chewop a volume of 10,570 acre feet (55 per cent more than 1969-70) containing 32,420 tons of salt. The Lake Hawthorn pumps near Merbein diverted to the Wargan evaporation basins, a volume of 820 acre feet (a reduction of 60 per cent on last year's figure) containing 3,100 tons of salt. 
According to the 1971-72 report the position is worse as far as Lake Hawthorn is concerned. The report under the heading 'Victorian Salt Disposal Schemes' states: 
Salt disposal schemes at Barr Creek near Kerang and Lake Hawthorn near Merbein were operated by the Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission and reduced the quantity of saline drainage waters reaching the Murray. During the year, the Barr Creek pumps diverted for evaporation in Lake Tutchewop 7,780 acre feet (75 per cent of last year's total) containing 25,800 tons of salt. The Lake Hawthorn pumps diverted to the Wargan basins a volume of 755 acre feet (a reduction of 10 per cent) 
My point is that in areas which mainly affect the quality of the water in Victoria there is a great build up of pumping to the evaporation basins. On the other hand, in 1968 the Barr Creek pumps pumped 6,810 acre feet to evaporation basins. This was increased to 7,780 acre feet in 1971-72. However, in the pumping to evaporation basins from Lake Hawthorn, which affects to a higher degree the quality of water in New South Wales, in 1969-70 some 2,150 acre feet of water was pumped and this was reduced to a mere 755 acre feet in 1971-72. It appears to me from those figures that the fruit growers in this area have good reason to complain. Those are not my figures. Anyone can find them in the reports of the River Murray Commission. The Commission claims that the water is allowed in the channel from Lake Hawthorn only when the river is in flush, but the growers in the area claim there is always some water in the channel. 1 have passed over the channel many times and have yet to see it dry. The Curlwaa Salinity Committee has complained continuously to me about this and I ask the Minister to give the matter consideration when further investigation of this area is made. I congratulate the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  for the interest he has shown in this problem. It appears that at last a real investigation will be carried out,for the people in this area. 
Motion (by  Dr Cass)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Opposition supports this proposal, naturally enough, as it was announced by the McMahon Government some months ago. The promise which was made by the previous Government is now being put into legislative form. The proposal is to grant to the South Australian Government $2.1m under the national water resources development program. The South Australian Government initiated the. project which was estimated to cost just over $5m. When the South Australian Government had done some of the work it ran out of money and work ceased. About $3m is still required to complete the scheme. The Commonwealth will provide $2.1m and the remainder will be provided by the. South Australian Government. 
I believe that this is an excellent proposal, just as I believe that the national water resources development program has achieved a tremendous amount. The other measures introduced by the previous Government to build additional water storages and to assist the States in building additional storages have done a tremendous amount to change the whole face of Australia so far as water conservation is concerned. The proposal we are considering is to pump water from the Polda acquifer or basin where there is a good quantity of high quality water. The water is to be pumped through 69 miles of trunk main on Eyre Peninsula and about 170 miles of distribution branch mains. 
The purpose of the scheme is firstly to provide water for stock in an area which has a rainfall of about only 16 inches a year. In that region it is very difficult to store water in reservoirs. Water is also to be provided for the 2 small townships in the area - Darke Peak and Kimba. At present Kimba has only 2 small earthen reservoirs. These do not fill and do not provide an adequate supply for the town. From the scheme 207 properties will be able to gain a water supply, thus permitting increases in livestock numbers. It is estimated that it will be possible to run an additional 71,000 sheep. Not so long ago we would have said that there was not much point in increasing the number of sheep anywhere in Australia, but today when sheep are being sold at between $25 and $30 each it is well worth while to increase their numbers. The project will also permit the running of an additional 22,000 cattle and 4,000 pigs. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has worked out that the scheme is economically sound and that the internal rates of return will be from 7.7 per cent to about 8.1 per cent, so it is well worth while. It is just one more example of the benefits of the national water resources development program which was initiated some years ago. In fact, I can claim to have taken the scheme before Cabinet and into the Parliament. It has done a tremendous amount to develop the water resources of this continent. Apart from the scheme provided for in this measure we have proceeded with water storages at the Ord River and Dartmouth. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  was asking what is being done to improve the quality and quantity of water in the River Murray. He would know that a start has been made on the Dartmouth Dam which will increase considerably the quantity of water available in the Murray River. But for  Mr Stott  and  Mr Dunstan  we would now be filling the Dartmouth Dam instead of just commencing its construction. Nevertheless, we have at last commenced it. It will make additional water available to be sent down the Murray River to reduce saline slugs on occasions when they occur. I hesitate to believe that the Victorian Government would be responsible for putting as much salt back into the Murray River as the honourable member has said, but I will certainly make inquiries to see whether that is happening. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that, when the revaluation of the Australian dollar was announced on 23rd December 1972, a variable deposit requirement scheme was also established by which 25 per cent of overseas borrowings, with a maturity in excess of 2 years, would in future have to be lodged with the Reserve Bank. 
If so, has this requirement, which effectively increases the cost of overseas borrowings by one third, caused difficulties in the minerals exploration sector, including, and in particular, the service industries. 
What action will be taken to ensure that national development is not in any way adversely affected by the variable deposit requirement scheme. 
Will the Government remove this requirement in respect of industries which are essential to national growth such as minerals exploration. 
On Thursday, 10th May, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  introduced a Bill for an Act to establish a pipeline authority. 
The Bill seeks to establish an authority for the transmission of petroleum, natural gas and other hydrocarbons by an interstate ring main pipeline system. The Minister for Minerals and Energy claims that this is necessary in order to ensure continuity of supplies and uniformity of price. He claims that the Authority should have trading rights to buy and sell hydrocarbons. 
We of the Opposition are not opposed to the establishment of an authority to plan interstate pipelines but I move an amendment to the motion for the second reading in these terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so that the National Pipeline Authority provides for Australia a public utility for the transportation at a fair price of petroleum on behalf of producers, distributors and users but so that the Authority may not be used as an instrument of nationalisation of the petroleum industry thereby inhibiting the search for and development of petroleum by private enterprise'. 
Australia is on the threshold of exciting developments in the field of natural gas. We still do not know our reserves of natural gas and probably will not for a long time to come but vast discoveries have been made, particularly in the Gidgealpa, North- West Shelf and Cooper basins. There are also hopes of establishing substantial reserves at Palm Valley in the Amadeus Basin. Natural gas will change the energy pattern in Australia. It is cheap. When it is supplied to Sydney we can expect to see a drop in the housewife's bill of from 20 per cent to 35 per cent while the cost of gas to industries can be expected to drop by about 30 per cent and perhaps even to double that figure. 
Not only is natural gas cheap but also it has the great advantage of providing a fuel which requires no expensive anti-pollution control equipment. It can provide a substitute for the heavy oils which we have had to import from overseas because they have not yet been discovered in Australia. Already Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth are connected to natural gas. When Sydney and the industrial areas of Newcastle and Wollongong are connected we can expect to see a steadily increasing percentage of our energy requirements met by natural gas. This will be an advantage to the country as it will help to reduce our costs, make us more competitive, increase employment and reduce pollution and the despoliation of our natural flora. 
Arrangements to connect Sydney to the Gidgealpa-Moomba natural gas field were well under way. The pipeline company had obtained permits from the Governments of New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia. Contracts have been signed with the producers as well as with the Japanese and Australian pipe manufacturers and shippers. The pipeline was due to be completed by December 1974 and reticulation to consumers was due to begin by April 1975. Everything appeared to be going forward smoothly. Suddenly the whole industry was thrown into utter confusion. The Federal Government announced that it intended to build and operate not only the GidgealpaSydney pipeline but also a network of pipelines throughout the Commonwealth. Let me say this about Labor's proposals: I would have no disagreement - and I stress this - with the Commonwealth's setting up of a Federal Pipeline Authority to plan, in conjunction with the States, a natural gas pipeline. Such an authority could help to avoid some of the problems that have arisen and errors that have been made overseas. I am sure honourable members will realise that in the United States of America there have been great problems associated with pipelines. There is no doubt that there has been enormous waste there because a producer and a purchaser have negotiated with one another and have just built a pipeline to connect the field to the area where the gas would be used. If one looks at the maps held by the Federal Power Commission in Washington one can see that the whole of the United States is criss-crossed by pipelines often going over one another and under one another. There is no doubt that there was little planning and this has led to excessive costs. 
I do not think anyone would say that there is any reason why we should not have an authority, but we must realise that such an authority must plan in conjunction with the States. At present all the pipelines operating are intrastate pipelines and the authorities that handle the gas are intrastate authorities. I make this point because a number of the pipelines now operating are intrastate and the Commonwealth has no power over the operation of these pipelines. Because most of the distribution authorities are under the control of State governments, close liaison must be maintained with the States in planning interstate pipelines. A limited amount of time is available for this debate on what the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  said was a matter of great national importance. I agree that it is a matter of great national importance. It is a tragedy that debate on a matter of such great national importance should be gagged and so little time made available to many of my colleagues who are extremely anxious to speak on this subject. It is one of the most important of all matters concerning the future development of this nation that will come before this Parliament for a long time. 
I stress that Opposition members are not opposed to the establishment of an authority to plan in conjunction wilh the States. We hope that this authority will be really efficient. One of the first things I hope it will do is negotiate contracts rather than use day labour. Day labour has been used in the past and this has increased the cost. In a capital intensive industry, such as pipeline transportation of natural gas, the capital cost is extremely vital in determining the cost at which oil or gas can be transported. 
The Opposition is opposed to a number of proposals in the Bill. One of these is paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1) of clause 13 which will enable the pipeline authority to buy and sell in Australia or elsewhere. This means that if it wants to it can buy oil overseas. It can sell oil through pumps. It can buy natural gas at the lowest well head price that it can squeeze because it will be the only authority that can purchase gas and therefore it can bankrupt a company if it so desires by offering the product at too low a price. It can then sell to the highest bidder. This, we feel, would be an extremely bad thing. It would undermine confidence in the search for and discovery and marketing of natural gas and petroleum in Australia. We think it is an extremely bad thing. We see the Authority in the same light perhaps as the railways, although I hope it may be more efficiently run than the railways. But, of course, the railways do not buy something that they transport and sell at the other end. They transport other people's goods at a fair and reasonable cost. This is why we have moved the amendment providing that transportation should be at a fair and reasonable cost to the producer and to the consumer. 
Of course, one only has to look at what has happened in particular in the United States to realise what can happen if one tries to squeeze the cost of petroleum products. This has happened particularly in the case of natural gas in the United States where the Federal Power Commission set an extremely low price. Initially this appeared to be to the advantage of industry and the public, but what has happened is that because of this people have not invested money in the search for and discovery of oil. The final result was that the supplies of natural gas in the United States have been running down and down. At the present moment many of these products are rationed or there is a very small supply of them. It is just the common law of nature that if we try to squeeze a producer he will not look for additional supplies; he will take his money somewhere else. This certainly has been shown to be the case in the United States. At the present moment we in Australia appear to have good fields of natural gas and adequate fields in many areas for some time to come. But this is not an excuse for a nationalised industry, which can be the only buyer, to try to squeeze the price to such an extent that private enterprise is no longer interested in the search for oil, because it is quite vital for us to see that the search for oil' and natural gas is continued. As far as crude oil is concerned, the search needs to be stepped up. 
The Minister has given a long list of proposed pipelines connecting Gidgealpa with Sydney, Wagga, Albury and Melbourne. Gidgealpa will then be connected to Palm Valley and Dampier. A pipeline will link Palm Valley and the Kalgoorlie mineral province to Perth. In addition spur lines will be built between Sydney and Brisbane with extensions - I put these next words in inverted commas because no one really knows what is meant by the expression - 'to coastal Queensland cities'. I looked at a map and tried to work out what could be the cost of this sort of proposal which is before the Parliament. It seemed to me that the plan calls for up to about 6,000 miles of pipeline and, depending on the size of the pipeline and how much inflation rockets under the present Government, that it could cost anything between S 1,000m and $ 1,200m, and possibly more. No assessment of costs or foreseeable markets and requirements has been carried out, except in relation to the Gidgealpa to Sydney route for which the East Australian Pipeline Corporation has already let contracts for about $53m and the final cost of this is expected to be around about $180m. The Minister says that he and the Western Australian Government have agreed to a feasibility study on the Palm Valley-Kalgoorlie-Perth Jink but, quite frankly, I do not know why this should be done. As I say, there has been no assessment of the final cost and yet we are asked to accept an Authority which could spend vast sums of the Treasurer's money. I am glad to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is here because I am sure this could well give him a nightmare. 
Perth is already receiving natural gas which comes to it from the Dongara field. We are asked for an expenditure of an additional $240m, and the only thing that this will do is to give Perth backup supplies in the case of interruption by natural calamities. To me this would appear to be quite an excessive cost for that backup. Another reason given for the interconnected grid system is the exhaustion of supply. Both of these reasons would need to be assessed extremely carefully before vast sums of taxpayers' monies were committed. Supply usually can be maintained for some weeks after interruption of the source of supply by a variety of means such as keeping the old gas making equipment in working order, storage of one sort or another, or temporary use of liquefied petroleum gas or other gas which can be used for a short time. This is usually more than sufficient to enable supply to be recommenced. In any case, the capital cities have been connected to a gas supply for some time and, to the best of my knowledge, there has been no interruption to the service or problem of any sort; yet we are asked to expend these vast sums of money on a backup source of supply. 
Also, gas is not normally connected to a source unless at least 20 years reserves have been established. This does not always apply, of course. Normally, additional drilling is done and more reserves can be expected to be established. However, in the case of the Roma field, this was not so. I stress that it is the Roma field and not the Moonie field, to which the Minister referred. The Moonie field, as his officers should know, is an oil field, not a natural gas field. One of the reasons given by the Minister for building a pipeline to Brisbane and to coastal cities in Queensland was that the Moonie field might run out. That has nothing to do with the situation at all. The Roma field is the one which provides Brisbane with natural gas and that field at present has proved reserves of only 10 years. However, the company is continuing its exploration. It has a drilling program which last year discovered reserves equal to all of the gas that it had already used. It also has additional fields which would mean the building of some additional lengths of pipeline and which have not yet been fully tested. Should the company not find any more gas in that area, it obviously would move to one of the, other fields where it has had a successful strike. 
So, I stress that new pipelines should be built only after a very careful assessment of the costs and benefits of such a pipeline has been made. In assessing these costs and benefits, due regard should be taken of alternatives, such as supplying the needs of certain areas by liquid petroleum gas or by liquid natural gas. One of the problems I see with a national authority in the hands of some governments could be that the pipeline would twist around in a tortuous way in order to go through the areas represented by certain members who brought a lot of pressure to bear. We want to make certain that this does not happen, that the cheapest line possible is built and that there is no political pressure of any sort, as was mentioned yesterday by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who told us that, because strong pressure had been brought to bear by one of his colleagues on the front bench, a certain town was to be included for receipt of benefits which would not otherwise have been included. 
My personal view in regard to the proposed authority is that the taxpayers' money should not be used to build pipelines when private enterprise is ready and willing to undertake the work I am sure that federal funds should be conserved for those purposes which do not attract private enterprise. There is an enormous demand on the taxpayer for such things as social services, hospitals, roads, schools and dams. We must tax the people for so many of these things but, certainly in some areas, people are ready, willing and able to provide a pipeline and yet they are being prevented from doing so and this vast sum of money is to be put on the taxpayer's back. 
Would pipelines be better run by a government authority, in the way the railways are run, or by a private authority? In the case of a private authority, economic and efficient management is a prerequisite to a person retaining his job and to a company remaining solvent. That of course does not apply when it comes to the running of systems by government authorities. I am not saying that, in certain circumstances, a government authority should not build a pipeline just because it did not happen to' be economic. It could well be that for reasons of decentralisation, development or for other reasons, private enterprise would not be interested in building a pipeline which could not run economically. We would accept that, in those circumstances, the Government could well decide either to subsidise a private operator to build and operate the pipeline or to do the job itself. But where private enterprise is ready, able and willing to spend its money we should enable it to do so, realising all the time, of course, that the authorities of the Federal and State governments would dictate many of the terms by way of permits and licences and ensure that the work was performed in a proper manner. 
The Minister mentioned what he called the highly successful precedent of the former Labor Government which created the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme'. I stress again that it is to be hoped that that Labor precedent will not be used, because the Labor Government started off using the New South Wales Department of Public Works on day labour rates. Everyone knows the result of this. After a little oyer 2 years the Department had not even completed building its own accommodation and construction of the Eucumbene Dam was running well behind schedule. Luckily then the Liberal-Country Party Government took over and said that it would use contracts and call for tenders. The Utah company won the tender and in no time it had made up the backlog and finished ahead of schedule. One of the basic things we have to ensure is that such an authority uses the tender system and that it does so effectively. 
One of the worst aspects of this Bill is that the Authority is to have the right to buy and sell and transport hydrocarbons. It will be quite different from the railways, which transport other people's goods. As it will be the only authority that can transport natural gas and petroleum, it also . will be the only authority that can buy and sell them and thus will have a complete set of monopoly powers. This is the reason for the Opposition's amendment. As I have mentioned, the Authority could, if necessary, break a company by refusing to pay it an economic price for its natural gas. I have also mentioned that because of this system of low pricing of natural gas  -  not paying an economic price - the 
United States of America is having severe problems with rationing and shortages. Many oil men put this down to the extremely low price which the Federal Power Commission allows people to charge. This could happen here. The Minister claims in the first sentence of his second reading speech that it is the Government's policy to maximise Australian ownership. It would seem that so far in the life of this Government the effect of virtually every one of its actions has been to discourage investment by Australians in Australian mining and oil companies. An Australian company is virtually prevented from borrowing loan money from overseas because of the 25 per cent freeze. The abolition of oil search subsidies and some other incentives will make it harder for the small Australian company to raise sufficient funds to mount a satisfactory drilling program. 
One other point I would like to make is that, in line with the Labor policy of jobs for the boys, provision is to be made for a trade union representative to be one of the 5 members of the Authority. He will be appointed not because of his knowledge of the pipeline business or because of his great skill and ability in particular fields of business but to represent the trade unions. This is just another case of jobs for the boys. It is not mentioned in the Bill; if it were, I would move an amendment against it. 
In every case that I can recall we appointed the most able person available to the board concerned. We selected the person who we thought had the most knowledge and ability. However, this is done because it is Labor philosophy. But what unionists will the appointee represent? Very few people will be working on the pipeline after it is completed; so why have a trade union representative? The Government does not even say which union this appointee will represent. 
There is every possibility that I will not have the opportunity to move amendments because of the guillotine which has been brought down by the Government. We are growing used to the fact that the Government does not want to debate matters or to hear people talking about what it is doing and what it is not doing. It wants to push everything through the House. I shall mention the amendments which I will move provided I am able to do so. I come first to clause 17, sub-clause (2) (a) which states: 
A person who enters upon land by virtue of subsection (1)- (a) shall, if it is practicable to do so, before entering upon the land, notify the occupier of the land that he will be so entering upon the land- 
I do not see how it could possibly be not practicable to do so. Therefore, the Opposition proposes an amendment which would omit the words 'if it is practicable to do so'. The clause will then read: 'shall, before entering upon the land, notify the occupier of the land- ' I cannot believe that it would not be possible to notify the occupier. On occasions it might take a short time to discover the whereabouts of an occupier who was travelling, but I just cannot believe that it is not practicable to notify the owner of the land. 
There is a most appalling provision in clause 18. (1) of the Bill, which states: 
The Authority, or any person authorized in writing by the Authority to do so, may, for the purposes of this Act - 
after giving not less than seven days notice in writing to the occupier of land (including land owned or occupied by the Crown in right of a State), enter upon and occupy the land; 
Clause 18 continues in sub-sections (b) and (c) to give tremendous power to 'demolish, destroy or remove on or from land so occupied, any plant, machinery, equipment, goods, workshop, shed, building or road'. This clause provides for a great many other things which I will not bore the House by reading. 
It seems to me incredible that a person could have his house, for example, demolished in 7 days time and be expected to leave within that time and find another home. Instead of 7 days notice it would be reasonable to substitute 90 days notice. Even this period would not make it easy for the occupier. Even if a person has a hayshed destroyed he has to build another shed for the hay and shift the hay into the shed. The provision of 7 days notice is quite ludicrous. Clause 33 states: 
The Authority is subject to taxation (other than income tax) under the laws of the Commonwealth. 
I cannot understand why a private enterprise or State authority should have to pay income tax while the proposed Federal authority should not have to pay income tax. I have very quickly acquired a list of some of the authorities of the Federal Government which do pay income tax. For example, according to Section 23 (d) of the Income Tax Assessment Act the revenue of certain Commonwealth public authorities is exempt from income tax, but this exemption does not extend to some authorities which are public authorities. These include Trans-Australia Airways, Qantas Airways Limited, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission and many authorities of this type. Many such authorities pay tax. Therefore we believe that the Pipeline Authority should pay tax. Clause 33 of the Bill in sub-clause (2) states: 
Subject to sub-section (3), the Authority is not subject to taxation under a law of a State or of a Territory. 
Again, what does this mean? Does it mean that the Authority would not be subject to payroll tax, or to motor registration? I should like the Minister to tell the House whether the Authority would have to pay a ton-mile tax, for example, if it is using roads of a State in which a ton-mile tax is applied. 
Finally, clause 39 of the Bill states: 
Division 4 of Part III of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1973 does not apply-- either to this Authority or in relation to a pipeline that the Authority proposes to construct. That in effect means that under the system under which a licence is issued to an authority to build a pipeline from off-shore - it is issued under the joint Commonwealth and State agreement and it is issued by the Designated Authority, who in most cases is the Minister for Mines - the National Pipeline Authority need not get such a pipeline. This to my way of thinking would be a complete abrogation of the agreement which was signed and which was passed through every one of 13 Houses of Parliament when we passed the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-73.I see that my time is up so may I just say once again that while we are not opposed to the establishment of an authority to transport natural gas we believe, in the words of our amendment, that: this House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so that the National Pipeline Authority provides for Australians a public utility for the transportation at a fair price of petroleum on behalf of producers, distributors and users but so that the Authority may not be used as an instrument of nationalisation of the petroleum industry thereby inhibiting the search for and development of petroleum by private enterprise. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I find myself partly in agreement with the opening statement of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in his second-reading speech when he said that it would serve Aus tralia's national and international interests to have the legal position on jurisdiction resolved. I say partly because there never has been any doubt that the only government that can negotiate internationally on behalf of any part of Australia's maritime shelf is the Federal Government. The problem is: How can this question of jurisdiction be resolved? There seem to me to be 2 alternatives; firstly, for the Federal Government to legislate and challenge the States to litigate, or, secondly, to try to negotiate an agreement with the States, and then to put the agreement into legislation. 
The second method was successfully used in the off-shore petroleum legislation. It has been of enormous benefit to Australia. The States made no secret of the fact that they would have liked to see the same principle used in off-shore mining legislation. The previous Government did, of course, try to obtain agreement with the States but was unable to do so before it went out of office. The present Government is using the first method, but I do not think the Government could have really studied the consequences that must flow from this legislation. I propose to examine a few of those consequences. 
The effect of this legislation must be to incite permanent litigation extending over, perhaps, 2 or 3 decades before Federal and State boundaries are finally resolved. If held to be constitutionally sound, this legislation must inevitably undermine the off-shore petroleum legislation, and the Minister in his second reading speech has twice used the ominous phrase 'off-shore petroleum arrangements will continue for the present time'. Administratively, this legislation must also produce confusion. The Commonwealth has no Mines Department except in the Northern Territory to administer and police laws for mining off-shore, nor could it police laws for fishing, boating, swimming, marine parks, criminal law and other matters. Yet the Commonwealth will have the ultimate responsibility in these matters if this Bill becomes law and the High Court upholds its validity. 
This legislation is nuclear in many areas. It is doing enormous damage to CommonwealthState relations. The friendly relations and goodwill which I did my best to build up over more than 5 years are going. To replace all these minuses, what does the Commonwealth seek to gain? The only purpose, apparently, is to resolve an abstract question of power as to whether the Commonwealth Parliament or the State Parliaments have the power and authority. Surely the sensible answer is for co-operation and joint action in which neither the States nor the Commonwealth contests one another's constitutional jurisdiction and in which joint arrangements on administration and sharing of returns are made on a mutually satisfactory basis. All this enormous damage to Commonwealth-State relations is so completely unnecessary because virtually no off-shore mining is now occurring, and it is not likely to occur in any major proportions for the next decade. 
The Minister in his second reading speech places his reliance for Commonwealth authority on an obiter dicta made by the Chief Justice in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia - a case in which jurisdiction was not argued and in which the Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral specifically asked that no decision on Commonwealth-State sovereignty be made. I would like to quote the remarks of a legal authority who, while he may be no  more eminent than the Chief Justice, is cer- tainly no less so. This person .said: 
In the Australian federal system, it is I think, clear that off-shore control is exercisable in accordance with the constitutional division of powers between the Commonwealth and States, the territorial sea being for this purpose treated as part of the territory of the State concerned. Accordingly, the control of the oil resources of the sea-bed beneath the territorial sea would normally appear to fall wholly within State authority, subject of course to such Commonwealth powers as those with respect to defence. But in this field as in all others, it is the Commonwealth and not a State which is internationally responsible for any exercise of power, whether by the Commonwealth or by a State, which affects other countries or their nationals. 
Those were the words of the then member for Parramatta and Attorney-General in 1962,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Some people have claimed that Australia is the only nation which does not know what the legal position is and where sovereignty lies. This statement is simply not true. The following countries are some of the federations with divisions of power between the State and Federal authorities similar to Australia: The United States of America, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Malaysia and Nigeria. Do these federations know the legal position of their off-shore resources? If the United States knows, why did the courts in the United States hold up to an amount of $1,3 65m in escrow because their courts could not decide whether this amount, which comes from 13369/73- -R- pi) royalties, was owned by the State or the Federal Government? I stress 'did', because there has been some improvement lately. 
If everything is such plain sailing in the United States since the 1947 decision, why was it necessary to appoint recently a special master and to place in his hands the unresolved question regarding areas subject to Federal Government or State jurisdiction in the State of Louisiana? It is good to know that, since the 1956 Agreement between Louisiana and the United States - and I stress that it was an agreement, not a court decision - dual permits or dual royalty payments have no longer been required. However, the question of the duplicate payments made prior to that time has not yet been resolved even though Louisiana and the United States are holding some payments that are clearly from each other's area. Why are a number of cases still pending in the American courts if the legal position is understood there? If everything is so clearly understood in Canada, why are negotiations still proceeding between the Provinces and the Federal Government 6 years after the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in a case which only applied, of course, to the Province of British Columbia? Why is this decision, in the words of a previous information officer of the Canadian High Commission in Canberra, generally considered as affecting just one round of a fairly lengthy match? If the situation is so clear in Malaysia, why was the Malaysian Government studying the Australian off-shore petroleum legislation, just as the Canadian Government did after the Canadian Supreme Court decision when it sent  Mr Isbister,  the Secretary of its Department of National Development, to Australia? 
Perhaps there are some people naive enough to think that all that is needed is a decision by our High Court and we then all live happily ever after. Every experience available shows that this would not be so. If honourable members desire to see constant litigation over a decade or more, they should pass this legislation. It should keep the lawyers fat and prosperous for many years to come. Some honourable members may ask why this is so. It will come basically from attempts to delineate State boundaries and therefore State sovereignty. Some basic rules for delineating boundaries have been laid down, but there are so many 'ifs' and 'buts' that there is enormous scope for legal disagreement. Let me mention a few of the problems to support my contention. At the present moment, State boundaries are determined by closing off harbours by a closing line drawn across the natural entrance points. Under the 1958 Convention on the Territorial Sea, if such a closure is less than 24 miles all waters inside this line are internal waters and therefore under the jurisdiction of the State. Of course they are shown on Commonwealth maps already as being under the jurisdiction of the State. This Bill, however, makes State boundaries revert to their boundaries as at Federation. Some authorities believe the closure distance at Federation was 10 miles and some believe it was 6 miles. Who is right? This will have to be decided by the Court if this legislation is held to be valid. 
Then we come to the drawing of baselines with regard to islands and low-tide elevations. Next comes the problem of enclaves and nonadjacent archipelagos. Of course, where the baseline method is applied to a coastline which is surrounded by a number of islands, but not a sufficient number to warrant this method, the drawing of areas of territorial sea round each island will lead to small pockets of high seas surrounded by territorial waters. One opinion has been expressed that such enclaves; as they are called, if not more than 2 miles in breadth and entirely surrounded by territorial waters, may be included within the territorial waters, but, in the case where the waters are open at both ends the pockets should be regarded as part of the high seas. We should not forget that there are islands which are not so close to the coastline as to exhibit an affinity with it, yet are so interconnected with each other as to suggest the application of the joining line of more than 6 miles, which would be the width of an island joining line if measured in the ordinary manner. I am sure that this shows the House that there are obvious grounds for disagreement in so many of these decisions. At a conference on this problem some delegates favoured the ordinary 3-mile line principle while others favoured treating the group as a whole, on condition that the distance between islands did not exceed 10 miles. 
Then we come to the treatment of low-tide elevations and complex areas of coastline consisting of deep indentations and fringeing islands. There is the problem of the so-called historic bays, where the depth of penetration must be at least equal to the radius of an area marked out by a semi-circle, the diameter of which is based on the distance between the entrance points. Sometimes bay is the term applied to indentations of the coastline wider than the depth of penetration, while a gulf is characterised by deeper penetration. Along the Australian cost some so-called bays are not bays at all. There is said to be a great deal of confusion in the Australian position in bays. 
Article 7, paragraph 3, of the Convention on the Territorial Sea concerns islands along the mouths of and within bays. One writer has described this provision as being so difficult to apply in practice that it is impossible to appreciate either its value or its purpose. And so one could go on. If there is not enough to keep the High Court going for years, then I am a Dutchman - and 'Fairbairn' is, as I am sure even the Minister realises, a name of entirely Scottish origin. So far, I have, not touched on baselines drawn for economic interests. What of low tide elevations with and without lighthouses permanently above sea level? What of rocks awash? What is the legal requirement for the existence of an island? What about uninhabited cays, rock outcrops -and boulders above high tide? Do these have territorial water surrounding them? Are drying rocks and drying shoals points of departure for. measuring territorial . waters? What heights of tides are used? Are they normal tides or neaps? I could go on much longer; but I think I have said sufficient to suggest that the title of this Bill ought to be changed to 'A Bill to provide lawyers with large incomes for many years to come'. 
These problems were avoided in the off-shore petroleum arrangements between the States and the Commonwealth because ' common sense, agreement and co-operation were used in achieving the solution. Not only has there been no agreement or co-operation in this legislation; common sense also has been a casualty. When I was in the United States 6 years ago, a commissioner of the Federal Power Commission told me that he did not expect to see the end of litigation on the United States' off-shore areas during his lifetime. When we agreed on the joint Commonwealth-State offshore legislation on petroleum I hoped that Australia was capable of learning from the United States' mistakes. Apparently I was over-optimistic. I certainly shall be proved over-optimistic if this Bill becomes law. 
Litigation also can arise from the attempt to determine jurisdiction. What happens, for example, where a person in the water uses obscene or offensive language to a person on the shore? Should State law apply or should Commonwealth law apply? What happens when a surfer strikes a swimmer with his board? Someone will have to determine whether the accident occurred above or below low water mark so as to determine jurisdiction. Coal miners in the Bulli coal fields, for example, will pass to and from Commonwealth jurisdiction as they cross vertically the low water mark. I said earlier that this Bill does not do what the Minister's second reading speech claims that it does. This is not my opinion; it is the opinion of eminent legal authorities from the States. How, they point out, can one exclude from Commonwealth jurisdiction structures built on Commonwealth land? Surely any wharf or jetty automatically becomes Commonwealth property if it is built on Commonwealth land, just as, for example, if I own a block of land and someone puts a structure on it, it becomes my property. Thus, the Commonwealth would acquire not only all these structures but also any areas built up by the States since Federation - for example, Port Kembla, Portland, Warrnambool and Port Latta. Certainly a number of more open harbours, such as Barrow Island, which are now administered by the States will become Commonwealth property. 
This legislation also ignores the fact that, in the proper development and control of offshore areas, joint co-operative action is required by both the Commonwealth and the States in the legislative and administrative spheres. Even if a State did not have any power below low water mark it still would have to play a major part in the development of any off-shore mining venture as it would have to provide so many on-shore facilities such as housing, roads, schools and police stations, lt could, I suppose, exercise the ultimate sanction of preventing the development of an off-shore mine merely by preventing a mine from landing its ore in the State concerned. The Commonwealth, of course, has supreme power in the off-shore areas in relation to the execution of any of its functions, just as it has on the on-shore areas. What it is seeking to do here is to extend its powers to the complete exclusion of the States. 
I hope that, even at this late hour, it may be possible to withdraw this Bill and try to repair some of the damage that has been done. What is needed, surely, is not a decision by a majority of the High Court judges as to where they believe jurisdiction lies at present. What is needed is a common sense arrangement, thrashed out with the States, as to what they and we would like to see. Then we can set about implementing this decision by legislation in this and, if necessary, all parliaments. 
The Opposition opposes this Bill. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: This House declines to give the Bill a second reading because it does not give effect to the statement of intention of the previous Government but would  be used as  a  vehicle to implement the whole of the socialistic policy of the present Government.'. 
I believe that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in his second reading speech attempted to mislead the House, as I will proceed to show. In his second reading speech he quoted from a speech made on 24 October 1972 by  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who was representing in the House of Representatives  Senator Cotton,  then Minister for Civil Aviation.  Sir Reginald  said: 
It is the intention of this Government, therefore, to introduce in the first sittings of the new Parliament a Bill amending the Australian National Airlines Act so that there is no question about TransAustralia Airlines having the powers enabling it to engage in activities closely related to airline operation and to give effect to the Government's decisions. 
I stress that what was said by  Sir Reginald  Swartz, representing  Senator Cotton,  was 'in activities closely related to airline operation'. 
The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation went on to say that the additional powers that the previous Government was contemplating giving to TransAustralia Airlines were, firstly, in aviation engineering work for outside organisations; secondly, in Commonwealth contracts; thirdly, in the establishment and operation of hotels and other kinds of accommodation; fourthly, in the establishment and operation of road transport services; fifthly, iri the acquisition of shareholdings; sixthly, in the field of aerial work and charter operations; and, seventhly, in operations in Papua New Guinea after independence. The Minister then went on to make this quite extraordinary statement: 
The amendment of the Australian National Airlines Act to widen TAA's powers is one matter concerning which this Government is in complete agreement with the previous Government. It therefore has no hesitation in bringing forward this Bill, which is designed to give TAA the additional powers mentioned so that it will be in a fair and equitable position compared with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd in respect of its operations under the 2-airline policy. 
Having made that broad, sweeping and, I believe, quite inaccurate statement, he then went on to say that he need not go any further into the Bill in detail. He left it to us to study the Bill and to find out for ourselves that it was quite inaccurate to say that he was simply picking up the proposals of the previous Government. 
Let me remind the House that the Minister carefully avoided stressing any reference to the references by  Senator Cotton  and  Sir Reginald  Swartz to 'activities closely related to airline operation', and 'for the convenience of its passengers' in mentioning road transport and hotels. The fact is that the Bill goes far beyond anything contemplated by the previous Government. In brief, the Bill would convert TAA into a transport and hotel commission and proposes that TAA would achieve its objectives by unfair and unequal competition. 
Let me detail the advantages this Bill seeks to give to TAA. Firstly, if it sees fit, the Government may make available unlimited funds on whatever terms it considers appropriate, and TAA will be immune from numerous charges, rates and State and municipal taxes to which its competitors in many fields of commerce are subjected. It was a fundamental part of the previous Government's administration of the 2-airline policy that the 2 airlines should, as far as practicable, have comparable cost structures in order to be able to compete on equal terms. This required, for example, that the government airline should be subjected to normal Commonwealth and State tax laws, that its borrowings should be at commercial rates and that it should have a dividend target and be expected to operate profitably. In addition, the Commonwealth, in the airlines agreements, understood that it would not exercise any of its powers under or by virtue of an Act to discriminate against the private enterprise airline. 
The Australian National Airlines Bill 1973 indicates a determination to ignore these principles and to provide a completely new system of competition which is different from that contemplated by the previous Government when it agreed to extend TAA's competence to engage in activities incidental to its airline operations. For example, the Bill implements completely the Labor Party platform which provides that the Commonwealth shall 'compete actively with private enterprise in interstate transport by sea, air or road*. The Bill also is stamped with the clear intention that 'actively' means with the full resources of the Commonwealth and without even elementary protections to ensure that the competition will be fair. 
Let me give the House some examples of this. I mention, firstly, clause 13 of the Bill which relates to borrowings by TAA. It states that the Treasurer may lend to TAA out of moneys appropriated by Parliament any amount which the Minister certifies is in his opinion necessary for the exercise of TAA's powers - I stress the following words - at such rates and on such conditions as he determines. This would permit loans to TransAustralia Airlines interest-free or at noncommercial interest rates which it could then use to establish companies, acquire shares on the Stock Exchange and enter into partnerships with other organisations. In each of these situations, TAA would be competing with other private enterprise organisations, and therefore a minimum safeguard must be the requirement that advances to TAA for these purposes shall bear interest at a rate not less than the rate prevailing in the commercial market place. 
Secondly, we come to the use of TAA staff superannuation funds. Since its inception, TAA has used its superannuation provisions in the business. These provisions or funds now total about $29m and are increasing at the rate of several million dollars a year. Access to these provisions has constituted an increasingly unfair advantage. There is every indication that the present Government proposes to repudiate action set in train by the previous Government to withdraw these funds. Because of their magnitude and the fact that TAA is to be authorised to compete with private enterprise undertakings in many new fields, it is vital to record the recent history of these funds. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  announced in his Budget Speech of 15 August 1972 an appropriation of $25m. This was to assist TAA to introduce new accounting arrangements for superannuation. He said that there would be an offsetting receipt of $21m from the Australian Airlines Commission. That is, the funds would be held in trust by the Commonwealth Superannuation Board on behalf of the Commission's employees.  Senator Cotton,  as former Minister for Civil Aviation, reaffirmed this in his civil aviation policy speech to the Senate on 29 August 1972. The use of superannuation funds in the business is quite contrary to normal practice for a commercial enterprise of the Commonwealth. We proposed changes which would have meant that TAA's superannuation arrangements would have been similar to those adopted by over 30 other Commonwealth instrumentalities. At present, TAA gets an advantage of at least $500,000 a year from the use of its superannuation funds. 
Let me deal now with TAAs liability to pay rates, taxes and charges. The original Australian National Airlines Act of 1945 expressly exempted TAA from income tax. This was amended by the Menzies Government in 1952 to require TAA to pay all Commonwealth rates, taxes and charges and such other rates, taxes or charges as the minister specified. As it is believed that past ministers have not required TAA to pay some State taxes such as stamp duty and payroll tax, .the Commission is already in a unfair competitive position. The new section 37 appears to extend greatly TAA's immunity from tax. Unless prescribed, presumably by regulations, TAA will not be subject to taxation under any laws of a State or a Territory. Thus it will avoid stamp duty and will be exempt from municipal rates, the road transport ton-mile tax and the very substantial liquor licence payable by its competitors. 
What other advantages will TAA obtain from this Bill? The provisions of the Bill propose to vest TAA with wide powers to engage in intrastate transport; that is, air and land, aerial services - that is, general aviation - hotels and other establishments or enterprises providing accommodation, recreation and entertainment or other services or facilities as incidental to the primary functions of the Commission as set out in section 19 (1) (a). Each of the proposed new sections relating to the vesting of TAA with these functions includes a remarkable further proposed subsection which invokes placitum (XX) of section 51 of the Constitution. That relates to the corporation power. It is invoked on a basis which is clearly intended to give TAA the widest possible powers to operate hotels, accommodation services, etc., permissible under the Constitution. If this were not the intention, there is no reason to include these additional provisions. In each case it would fully meet the intention of the previous Government if TAA were permitted to engage in each of these fields, only to the extent that it was clearly incidental to the operation of airline services. 
The previous Government agreed to support references from State parliaments on the matter of air transport and to adopt those references by appropriate legislative action. The proposed amendment to section 19a and proposed new section 19b purports to do this and to that extent are clearly unobjectionable from the point of view of State governments since positive initiative is required by State governments before their rights can be affected. State rights are further protected by provisions inserted by the previous Government in section 19a, which required the consent in writing of the Premier of a State to the establishment and operation of intrastate airline services and also permitted the Premier to revoke this consent. Having inserted these provisions, that would have been sufficient but a new and remarkable section 19c is to be inserted. It has the clear and blatant intent of making a reference of powers by State governments totally unnecessary and also, if it withstands legal challenge, will make it quite unnecessary for the Commonwealth to hold a transport referendum as contemplated by the Labor Party. 
Proposed section 19c not only invokes the Commonwealth's incidental powers but in paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) also purports to vest TAA with unlimited powers to engage in intrastate transport both on air and land. It states: 
. to the extent that those powers are capable of being conferred on the Commission in the exercise of the power of the Parliament to make laws under paragraph (xx.) of section 51 of the Constitution. 
As the present Government has argued for a wide interpretation of the corporation power, it is a gross deception not to have invited Parliament's attention to the fact that provisions were included in the Bill which seek to make vast inroads into existing areas of State sovereignty without the approval of State governments. For example, by virtue of this section, a reference of power is not necessary before TAA engages in purely intrastate air and road services, and it can do so without the permission of the Premier. This makes a mockery of the safeguards of State interests inserted in section 19a by the previous Government. Furthermore,. TAA apparently can engage in such road and air activities with complete immunity from road taxes, licence fees and other charges payable by its competitors. It must be suspected that an intention of this provision is to test, for other purposes unconnected with TAA but under the cloak of TAA's respectability established during the previous administration, the scope of the corporation power of the Commonwealth. Trans Australia Airlines will also have the right to operate bus services in Papua New Guinea, even though it has never been invited to do so. 
Under proposed new section 19j, TAA may do all things necessary or convenient to be done in connection with or as incidental to the performance of its functions. This provision is wide enough, even if it is not presently contemplated, to permit TAA to acquire shares in Ansett Transport Industries up to $250,000, without ministerial approval and to any extent with the Minister's approval but without further reference to Parliament. This is contained in clause 9, amending section 21 (2). Under this clause TAA clearly can obtain control by the purchase of shares of any or, for that matter, all major road transport operators and any hotel or accommodation chain which provides accommodation for air or road passengers -that is all hotels and motels. Such a provision clearly goes far beyond anything contemplated by the previous Government. What I am saying is that while the Government has the power in this House to introduce most or all of these measures giving TAA the advantage of unfair and unequalgain the Minister should not have attempted to make out that it is merely picking up the previous Government's proposals. 
The whole nub of the argument is this: Do the Minister and the  chairman  of TAA seek the powers that are given to them in this Bill? The Minister says: 'No'. In answer to a recent question on this matter which appears in Hansard the Minister said: 
All that we want is TAA to have a sufficient number of hotels as part of its business to assist it in the tourist expansion program which it is undertaking. 
He went on later to say: 
AH that is proposed is what my predecessor  Senator Cotton  promised TAA, that is, that it would be permitted to operate hotels. 
The Minister concluded his answer by saying: 
So all that I am doing is implementing a Liberal Party promise. 

 Sir Frederick Scherger, as  Chairman  of TAA, says that he has no intention of turning TAA into a nationalising vehicle for all forms of transport. So if these men mean what they say -and one accepts that they do -they have no need to seek the additional powers sought in this Bill which could allow some future Labor government to go very much further than these 2 gentlemen propose going. In this case the Government should have no difficulty in agreeing to the proposed amendments which will be brought up in this House by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and in the Senate and which will ensure that a future government will not go further than previous governments had proposed. 
Alternatively the present Government could give us a firm commitment by giving forthright answers to a number of questions. I hope that the Minister will give us these answers because they are important not only here but also when this Bill is discussed in the Senate as it will be in the near future. Firstly, does the Minister agree that TAA should be subject to the same taxation charges as its competitors? Secondly, does the Government intend to allow Ansett Transport Industries to have equal access to government business? Thirdly, what limits are being set on TAA to prevent it from obtaining a monopoly in the hotel field or to prevent unfair competition? Fourthly, will TAA be required to maintain a commercial dividend rate? Fifthly, will the staff superannuation funds be used at all or will they be used at less than the commercial interest rate? Sixthly, will TAA be able to operate internationally, for example in Papua New Guinea after independence, and if so will TAA be immune from taxation in Papua New Guinea under this Bill and did the Papua New Guinea Government agree to this? Seventhly, will TAA separate its accounts into airline or non-airline activities as ATI is now forced to do? Eighthly, will the Treasurer give an assurance that rates on money borrowed by TAA will be comparable to market interest rates? Ninthly, does the Minister propose to allow TAA to operate interstate road transport of goods and passengers without the authority of the States? Tenthly, is it proposed that TAA will engage in aircraft crop dusting or charter services in competition with the hundreds of light aircraft operators? Lastly, what is meant by 'recreation and entertainment' which this Bill allows TAA to engage in 
One could speak at great length on this matter. However, there are a number of people from this side of the House in particular -I believe that some 10 honourable members want to speak on this Bill -and we have been told that the debate has been limited to 3 hours. In view of this I will not speak any longer. Not only do 10 members from this side wish to speak but also we have a good many amendments which we would like to move. However, obviously the Opposition will have no chance of moving all of these amendments and considering and discussing them fully, so we feel that we must oppose the Bill. I believe that this Bill should be resisted by all non-socialists with all the strength at their commend. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said that this Bill is a proposal to give TransAustralia Airlines rights to compete in tourism. We do not object to it competing in certain areas but not going beyond the aviation field provided it competes on fair terms. But is it competing on fair terms? The Bill does not provide for this. Time and again this Bill provides for advantages to be made available to TAA which are not available to other transport organisations or to other hotel or motel organisations. Firstly, TAA has the advantage of $29m of superannuation funds of which the agreement we are now discussing will divest TAA, as has happened in every other case. This provides an enormous advantage of available expanding capital to TAA. This amount is rising at a rate of more than $2m a year. 
The Opposition is all for competition on fair and just terms. But what are these fair and just terms? Honourable members should have a look, for example, at the way that Government business is allotted in Canberra and see whether an even number of people on Government tickets leave Canberra by 
Ansett as compared with TAA. Of course, more go by TAA. There are so many of these fields.I am sure that I will be ruled out of order if I go too far into the question of why terms and conditions are not fair. I hope I will be allowed to mention the fact that under this Bill that we are discussing TAA is to be relieved of tax in a number of areas in which it had previously to pay tax. We do not carry a torch for Ansett or for any of the other airlines, but there should be an equality between the advantage's given to the different airlines. I am the first to admit that TAA is an extremely efficient and well run organisation. But we do not want it to have advantages which will enable it gradually to swallow up the other airlines, and not only the other airlines but also hotels and road hauliers. This is what it is all about. 
The honourable member for Corio said that we had not agreed to intrastate operations by TAA. This is quite wrong. We had agreed to intrastate operations in Western Australia, as the letter which has been tabled by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  shows. But one of the reasons that we did not allow this earlier is that Ansett Transport Industries which had purchased the MacRobertson-Miller airline, the airline which was operating in the area, was perfectly able to provide all the transport needed in that area and in fact is still able to do so. However, because we believe in fair and just competition, we agreed that on certain days TAA should operate from Perth to Port Hedland and on to Darwin. 
The Minister accused honourable members on this side of the chamber of introducing red herrings. He said that the Government intends under this legislation and under this clause in particular to carry out the terms of the agreement which the previous Government had arranged with TAA and Ansett Airlines. The Government says that what it is doing now is exactly what we had promised to do. But of course this is not so. If the Government were to accept the amendment which had been moved by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  then it would be carrying out the agreement, because the amendment states: 
Clause5, page 2, omit sub-section (1) of proposed section19, substitutethe following subsection - 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air 
And I stress the words 'by air'   between prescribed places; and 
within the limits of its powers under this  Act  or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by  air  or  in  association with its powers in this section 
And I draw special attention to these words  and, within those limits, to provide land transport, accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of  its  powers under paragraph (a) . . . 
That is quite different from the clause that we have before us, which states: 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or by land, or partly by air and partly by land, . . . 
This is where the great difference arises between the two. The Government has conveniently omitted the words 'for the convenience of its passengers'. It has used an absolutely broad brush. I think that the Minister said that the Bill is written in broad terms. He can certainly say that again. As he has tabled the correspondence between  Sir Frederick  Scherger and  Senator Cotton,  let me refer to the letter. Of course, it is true that  Senator Cotton  stated: 
I  now confirm that as far as this Government  is  concerned, the Commission has a firm assurance that in the first sittings of a new Parliament  a  Bill amending the Australian National Airlines Act will be introduced so as to give TAA the powers requested in your letter to  Sir Donald  Anderson dated13 October 1972, and that in presenting the proposed Airlines Agreement Bill 1972I will make a statement to that effect. 
There is an attachment to the letter. Let us see what was said about tourist accommodation and road transport services. The then Minister,  Senator Cotton,  said that he would amend section 19 by adding a new sub-section specifically empowering TAA for the convenience of its passengers - and I stress that - to establish and operate or assist in the establishment of hotels or other types of accommodation and road transport services and to perform all activities incidental thereto or in connection therewith. So the Minister for Civil Aviation is not being absolutely on the level with us because he has made no reference to the words for the convenience of passengers'. Another phrase was used, and although I do not have it before me at the moment, it meant the same. In other words, they must be things which were directly associated with air transport. In other words, TAA could provide an hotel, it could provide a bus to take passengers to the hotel, but it could not engage in interstate road transport. 
The Minister said that TAA is not intending to enter into the furniture transport field. I do not know what he intends. I am not interested in what he intends or what he does not intend. What I am interested in is what the Bill allows him or some future government to do. There is no doubt at all, from my quick reading of the Bill, that it allows TAA to carry all sorts of goods interstate or intrastate with or without permission from the State. The Bill provides that within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, TAA can transport passengers and goods for reward by air or by land. The Minister might very well say: 'I am not going into the transport business; I do not want to be the greatest owner of hotels in Australia'. But we want to be sure that the Bill is so drafted, because unfortunately whatever a Minister says here is not looked at by a judge when the matter comes up before a court. That is the position that I take. Finally, let us remember that all these conditions which were offered by the previous Government were conditional on the agreement to hand over the superannuation funds. TAA is trying to keep all the plums; it has forgotten that there is a quid pro quo. 
In the absence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy I ask the Prime Minister a question. The honourable gentleman will recall that the Minister for Minerals and Energy issued a statement on Tuesday in which he blamed the reason for any delay in the delivery of Gidgealpa gas to Sydney entirely on the New South Wales environmental impact inquiry. Is the Prime Minister aware that the Managing Director of Santos Ltd has written to the Australian Gas Light Co. advising that its ability to maintain the 1 December 1974 target date for the completion of all planned facilities relating to this initial supply to Sydney will begin to slip as it has been necessary to terminate arrangements with the engineering contractors for detailed design and specification? Is he also aware that this action was deemed necessary because the Minister for Minerals and Energy advised Santos Ltd during an interview that, until such time as the situation as to the ownership of the pipeline had been clarified, the consortium should not undertake any major capital investment? Does this not mean that the Minister was not correct when he claimed that only the environmental inquiry was delaying this project? 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment which has been moved by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr 
Nixon). At the outset I thank the Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  for the way in which he has been prepared to look at the amendments proposed by my colleague and agreed to them where he felt they were reasonable. I think the Minister has set a very good example to his other ministerial colleagues. I only hope they also will operate along those lines. I am grateful that the Government is prepared to look at reasonable amendments and amend the Bill accordingly. The question that is before us is really the nub of the whole matter: Should Trans-Australia Airlines use its superannuation funds in its business? It is the only commercial enterprise of the Commonwealth which does so. We are told that there are more than 30 Commonwealth instrumentalities which do not use staff superannuation. 
When my Party was in Government only a short time ago we proposed that these moneys should be paid over to Consolidated Revenue. An amount of $25m was made available in the 1972 Budget. This money was to be paid to TAA so that it would not have to use its superannuation funds. Those funds have built up and have given TAA a definite advantage over any other company, be it in the transport or the hotel field. Most private companies do not use their staff superannuation funds; they invest them in something which is gilt-edged. In fact, I am not certain that a private company is entitled to use superannuation funds in its business. Legally, I do not think it would be able to do so. The superannuation funds do not belong to the company, in actual fact they are owned by the employees. If anything were to happen to a private company which made it bankrupt the superannuation funds would become a first charge because they are owned by the employees. I do not believe that TAA should be allowed to make use of its superannuation funds which are increasing at a rate of between $2m and $3m annually. The funds provide TAA with an unfair advantage. 
I am glad to learn that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has agreed, and I think correctly, that TAA will increase the interest that it pays for the use of those superannuation funds in future. It has been paying an interest rate of  5i  per cent. I understand it will now rise to 7 per cent. I believe it was true to say that TAA was receiving an advantage estimated at $500,000 per annum at the previous rate. But the main concession is not the interest rate that is paid by TAA; it is simply that these funds are available for capital expansion programs. This does tend to give TAA an unfair advantage. This matter must be viewed in the light of the fact that the whole program that was agreed to last year by TAA and by Ansett and by the Government included a provision that these superannuation funds would be transferred to the Commonwealth. I have recently looked at the records of the proceedings at that time. I am perfectly certain in my mind that that was part of the agreement which was reached. The agreement had some pluses and some minuses. I think the attitude of the then Government was that a spoonful of sugar made the medicine go down. Well, we gave TAA the sugar and it took it, but it has not taken the medicine. Perhaps I could use another metaphor. The trap was baited, the cheese taken, but the trap was not sprung. 
TAA now has many new advantages but it has not had the disadvantages. It has the advantage of operating in hotels, motels and road transport - that is, activities which are closely related to airline operation. TAA is now able to engage in aviation engineering works for outside organisations, Commonwealth contracts, acquisition of shareholdings, aerial work and charter work and will be able to operate in Papua New Guinea after independence. It seems to me that TAA undertook to accept those advantages in a whole package, and part of that package was the transfer of the superannuation fund. It took the plums and left what it did not want. It was the intention of the previous Government that those superannuation funds be transferred to Commonwealth revenue. In fact that was indicated at the time of the last Budget. Therefore, I support the amendment moved by my colleague. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle)- Minister for Civil Aviation) (4.55) - The honeymoon is temporarily suspended. The Government cannot accept the Opposition's amendment. I have in front of me the correspondence between  Sir Frederick  Scherger,  Sir Donald  Anderson and  Senator Cotton.  Nowhere in that correspondence does it appear that the TransAustralia Airlines' superannuation funds are in any way involved. In fact, in the debate that ensued last year on these matters, if I remember rightly,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who then represented the Minister for Civil Aviation in the House of Representatives, made the statement that the funds were not involved as part of the agreement. It might be argued that this was one of the conditions of the agreement. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd tried for years to get the former Government to force TAA to invest its funds in the Commonwealth employees superannuation fund. I am pleased to say that until October of last year the former Government did nothing about it, left the position as it was and ignored the protestations of  Sir Reginald  Ansett and the other members of the ATI management. So far as 1 am concerned the matter was not and is not part of the deal between TAA, ATI and the former Government. It is a matter about which Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has been protesting for some considerable, time. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said that he is pleased to learn that I have taken action to force TAA to increase its interest rates on the use of superannuation funds. One of the first things I did after being appointed was to hold meetings with the various commissions and boards for which I am responsible, that is, those of TAA, Qantas Airways Ltd, Commonwealth Railways and the Australian National Line. This was one of the things I discussed with  Sir Frederick  Scherger. I indicated to him then that I thought it was ridiculous that the TAA superannuation fund was being credited with only  5i  per cent interest, that TAA was charging itself only  5i  per cent. I said I thought that that rate should be increased to a more reasonable and more practical interest rate. I understand that that action has been taken. That was my attitude. The former Government's attitude was to let TAA go along on 5 per cent. 1. considered that that was unreasonable, and think ATT had some reason to protest about it. But let us have a look at the practical position. The honourable member for Farrer said that insurance funds should be invested in gilt-edged securities. Who could be more gilt-edged than the Australian Parliament? We are responsible for the debts of the Australian National Airlines Commission. 
 I said this in respect of private companies. 
If the Opposition persists with this amendment it will mean that TAA will be at a very distinct disadvantage compared with its competitor. All through the discussions we have had on this Bill we have endeavoured to give TAA and ATI equal trading rights. This is a case where equal trading rights will not apply, because on my information it will cost TAA about an additional $600,000. Already TAA's contributions to superannuation are more generous and widespread than those of its competitor. I do not want to quote a figure because I cannot give a factual figure, but I can say that it costs TAA about $1.2m more for superannuation than it costs Ansett Transport Industries. So already TAA is carrying that additional burden or cost in excess of that carried by its competitor. We are not complaining about that. The Government is prepared to accept that situation. 
Personally I would like to see the employees of ATI in an identical position with that of employees of TAA. TAA and ATI are 2 instrumentalities, one private and one Government-operated. In line with the terms that we are trying to work out in this Bill the employees should be in receipt of identical wages and conditions. In most respects they are in receipt of identical wages and conditions, but TAA employees receive an annual superannuation contribution that is about $1.2m in excess of what ATI pays its employees. This is something that ATI can probably have a look at.  Sir Reginald  Ansett can have a look at improving the conditions of his own employees so that they enjoy conditions at least comparable with those afforded by TAA. If  Sir Reginald  or the board of ATI is not prepared to do that, it is a matter which the unions should be having a look at to make sure that these 2 airline operators operate on identical conditions not only from a governmental point of view but from the point of view of wages and conditions. 
These are important things which should be taken into consideration when the Opposition persists with this amendment. I do not think it is fair and reasonable, and I emphasise the major point that for 27 years the present system has prevailed, and now at this late hour Ansett Transport Industries is pressing the claim that what has been put forward by the Opposition is part of the Agreement. I tabled letters in the House yesterday to show what had transpired and so the true position would be on record. I have been able to show that the present position should be allowed to remain as is, having in mind the very distinct disadvantage that TAA suffers at the present time, which I am not complaining about - and I emphasise that point - in competition with ATT. I ask the Opposition to accept my assurances that the interest rates which are paid into the superannuation funds will be similar to those I mentioned earlier when I said that the Treasurer would charge interest on moneys lent to TAA at rates comparable with the interest rates paid by a first-class borrower. As far as I am concerned the same rates will apply to the superannuation fund. The superannuation fund will be credited with a payment by way of interest from the general funds of TAA, if you can separate the funds, which you cannot. But if it has to be a book entry, that is what we are prepared to do. The operational funds of TAA will be charged a more or less commercial rate of interest and interest will be added to the superannuation funds. I think it is a fair and reasonable proposition that still allows TAA the right to use these funds in the operation of its business. If the funds are tied up in the Commonwealth superannuation fund TAA will have no access to them. I understand that some of the superannuation funds of TAA's competitor are invested in various insurance companies which run superannuation funds. It can borrow against those funds, whereas TAA would have to go through the normal Government borrowing and lending procedures to get money from the Treasury. I come back to the point that its competitor has not only a $1.2m advantage but also the advantage of being able to borrow against the superannuation policies it has with private insurance companies. 
We are discussing the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill. I start by saying that the Opposition does not propose to oppose this Bill; it will agree with it. When we first set up the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation - and I was very closely associated with this for a considerable number of years, although it was shortly after I retired as Minister for National Development that my successor introduced the Bill into the House of Representatives - we had quite a lot of problems to face. The Snowy Hydro-Electric Authority under  Sir William  Hudson, and later under  Mr Howard  Dann, had achieved a very high reputation and considerable fame and 1 believe that world wide it was regarded extremely highly. There was no doubt that the Authority did a magnificent job in designing and completing the work which has now been almost completed. But we did have problems then as to what would happen to the Authority. As my successor,  Mr Swartz,  said when he introduced the Bill into the House in March 1970: 
Some sections of the community would have liked us to retain the whole of the Snowy organisation intact to undertake major water development measures throughout Australia in much the same way as it has tackled the Snowy scheme. 
He went on to say: 
The truth is however that there is no other scheme in Australia of the same size and homogeneity as the Snowy. The Snowy had been geared to spend annually sums equivalent to the total expended by all States on rural water development measures. While the States' total might with good reason be increased, there is no case for the Snowy to move into this field so as to push the States out. 
So we had to look and see what expertise the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority had which might be used. First of all, of course, it was not in the field of construction because, as we know, all the dams that have been built in the Snowy Mountains area have been built by contract and these contractors are of course available to build dams elsewhere in Australia. But the Authority itself was not a constructing authority. The expertise and the efficiency which this Authority had was in investigating not only projects in the Snowy itself but also many other projects and in designing - in particular, in designing dams, tunnels, mountain roads and a number of other things in this area - in scientific services which it provides in Cooma, and in contract writing and supervision. 
So what we set out to do when we set up this Corporation was to maintain these skills. But we did not want the Corporation to go so far as to undermine the business of local private engineering consulting organisations or to compete directly with them in all fields, and we did not want to have the Authority able to push unwanted into the States. Therefore, the then Minister in his second reading speech outlined a number of measures which he felt would see that the Authority was fully used, but in Australia anyway would abide by the rules which Cabinet had laid down for it. It was not to be permitted to act as a constructing authority, and the principal engineering fields in which it was to operate were broadly described as those related to the development of water and power resources and for underground works. In work for private organisations, it was able to act only when commissioned by a private consultant and the State governments were invited to introduce legislation matching that of the Commonwealth. I understand now that all the States have done this and I am very glad that they have done so because at the time some of the States seemed to be rather half-hearted as to whether they would use the Authority or not. They have ali used the Authority and I am glad that they have all now passed the necessary legislation, lt was expected that the Snowy would continue to use and collaborate with Australian consultants in appropriate circumstances and this it certainly has done. It was to be necessary for the Snowy to obtain approval of the Minister before undertaking any job and the Minister, before he gave that approval, was to have the advice of a consultative committee which was formed and on which some private consultants were members. Finally, it was to operate as a commercial organisation, would pay Commonwealth income tax and would be expected to make a reasonable return on its capital. 
I am sure we can say that everything that was set out in the second reading speech for the Authority to do it has achieved and I am sure that everyone is extremely pleased with the way it has been operating. I see from its last annual report that last year, the charges to clients were over $8m, up about $1.5m on the previous year. Its operating profit was just on $500,000, it made provision for income tax of $305,000 and this left it a net profit of $172,351. It has been able to undertake a large number of assignments. In the last year, there were some 25 assignments inside Australia and about 11 assignments outside Australia, in Papua New Guinea, Thailand, Cambodia, Malaysia or North Borneo. So, I think we can be justly proud of what the Corporation has achieved during the relatively short period it has been in operation. 
The Bill now before the House proposes to widen the capacity of this Corporation to undertake work in Australia. As I said, at present inside Australia it has been limited in a number of ways, lt has been limited to the development of water resources, to the generation and transmission of electricity and to underground works. It was limited in that it had to work through a private consulting engineer and that it was not to engage in construction. Some of these restraints are to be removed by the present Government. The first is the proposal that will allow the Corporation to act independently or in association with others. The second is that at present all works undertaken by the Corporation, however minor, must receive the prior approval of the Minister, and the Government says that it believes this provision is unnecessarily restrictive and it will amend it so that the Minister can allow certain works as prescribed by him without specific submission being made for approval. This, I am sure, is only sensible. A change is to be made in the Principal Act so as to alter the composition of the consultative committee and add representatives of the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Overseas Trade to this committee. I think in the past there was close liaison on all overseas matters with the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Overseas Trade, but this will put them even closer together. 
There, is to be a change in the borrowing powers of the Corporation to bring it into line with standard provisions in other similar Acts such as, we are told, the Overseas Telecommunications Act. The final amendment clarifies the fact that the Corporation must not only seek the approval of the Minister before it can acquire or dispose of property with a value in excess of $100,000, but also seek the approval of the Minister to enter into an agreement for the provision of services if their value is in excess of $100,000. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. We believe that it is a sensible measure. I understand that a request has been made for the services of the Corporation in additional areas, in fields outside those in which it is at present allowed to participate. 1 refer particularly to the mining field. In the early days of the development of the Bougainville field Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia sought the services of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, but because of the then charter of the Corporation it was not enabled to assist. Now it will be able to engage in such activities in mining and other areas when its services are required and desired. 
The Opposition believes that the Corporation has been extremely successful. I have no doubt that a number of projects with which the Corporation has assisted would have gone to overseas consultants had the Corporation not existed. It has also assisted Australian consultants. Sometimes an Australian organisation employs Austraiian consultants in conjunction with the Corporation knowing that if the Australian consultant does not have all the required expertise, probably the Corporation will be able to assist. Such joint undertakings have enabled Australian consultants to obtain jobs which otherwise would have gone to big overseas consultants, private and governmental. 
Consultant engineering is a very big activity nowadays. The amount expended annually on such work in Australia is enormous and in addition quite a lot is spent overseas. Anything that can be done to build up local expertise is worthwhile. The Corporation is not a large organisation in the field of consultant engineering operating in Australia today. I understand that in the Association of Consulting Engineers there are between 4,000 and 5,000 engineers, and all told there are between 10,000 and 12,000 men in that organisation. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation employs 107 engineers and a total staff of about 308 people, so that relatively speaking it is quite small. For the reasons I have given I believe that we should congratulate and support the Corporation. We support the Bill. 
1 am glad also to have the opportunity of saying a few words because while I was not directly responsible for retirement benefits for members of the Services when 1 was Minister for Defence - the Treasurer was the responsible Minister - it was my responsibility to put the views of the Services, and in particular 1 was closely associated with the Government's assessment of the Jess report and with its attempts to try to get a workable scheme and an agreed scheme that would be acceptable to the House, to the public and to the servicemen in particular. In particular I want to thank the officers of my former department who devoted so much time and energy to work on this scheme, which I think must be one of the most complex schemes on the statute book. 
Most of the recommendations of the report of the Jess Committee have been implemented, but I feel that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  might have been a bit more magnanimous in his second reading speech and might have paid a tribute to those who are responsible, and in particular to John Jess, the former honourable member for La Trobe. I am disappointed in the Minister. We got a lot of T. He used such phrases as 'I initiated', 1 moved for the appointment', 'the Government of the day agreed with my proposal', but everyone knows that in this place members of the Opposition can move amendments or motions until they are blue in the face and they do not achieve what they are seeking. The reason that the Jess Committee was established was that John Jess in particular and the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  saw the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and were able to persuade him to agree to this committee. I do not know what arguments they used to persuade the Prime Minister, but they certainly used them and they were effective. 
Undoubtedly one of the major arguments would have been the tremendous complexity of the scheme as it now exists, especially the pre-1959 scheme. It is virtually impossible for any serviceman to know what his benefits are, and particularly in the pre-1959 scheme contributions varied enormously. The post- 1959 scheme was better but this led to considerable trouble and unrest in the Services. I recall that many years earlier when I was Minister for Air we had problems with people believing that the scheme was an ungenerous one; I do not think that this was so. The problem was partly or one could say almost mainly that the scheme was not understood. In fact we went to the extent, when I was Minister for Air, of sending a senior officer round to all the bases to explain the defence forces retirement benefits scheme and this had some effect. But in the old days virtually every case had to be looked at individually and obviously many anomalies existed. It was to try to get rid of these that the Jess Committee was formed. 
Of course another problem was that in the earlier scheme promotion shortly before retirement led to vast increases in contributions. Admittedly the person who paid these received greater benefits eventually but he had to decide whether to live very cheaply while he paid for a benefit that he would receive later or not to make the additional contributions, in which case he lost the opportunity of an increased benefit. We were particularly fortunate in having available to us in the Government at that time people of the calibre of John Jess. He was brought up, as everyone knows, in a military background.  His  father, for instance, I believe was the youngest general in the First World War, and John Jess has maintained over a period of many years close links with the Army and he understands many of its problems and its thinking. We were also extremely lucky to have the services of 2 other men. One was the honourable member for Isaacs who spent a considerable time in the Navy and therefore understood the workings of this scheme. The other was the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who had very many years in the Army. They were of great help. I am not by any manner of means underrating the contributions made by other people, but I say that at the time when the then Treasurer, the then Prime Minister and I were doing our utmost to try to sort out some of the problems associated with this scheme those people were of considerable help to us. 
Another argument that could possibly have told when it was decided to set up the scheme was the fact that the serviceman did not appear to be well treated vis-a-vis the public servant. I found in the time that I was associated with work on this scheme that there appeared to be a resistance amongst many people to realise that conditions of service in the Services are completely different from conditions of service in the Public Service. The serviceman, first of all, of course, is constantly on the move. It is not unusual for an officer in the Services over the period of his service to have 20 or more moves. A public servant can have perhaps only one. Sometimes he starts in Canberra and remains here all his life. On other occasions of course he may be moved to Canberra from Melbourne. But certainly it is very much easier for the public servant to set up a house. He does not have the problem of being constantly moved and having to establish a new home. Sometimes a serviceman gets a home where he thinks he will retire and will be settled and in no time he is sent off overseas or to another State. He has to face the problem of either selling his home or getting someone to occupy it, knowing that very often homes are not well looked after by tenants. 
If a war breaks out a serviceman is pretty likely to find himself in it, being shot at and facing all the problems and conditions associated with war. The setup in the Services is completely different from that in the Commonwealth Public Service. The serviceman is separated from his family for long periods. This particularly applies to those in the Navy, not quite so much perhaps to members of the other 2 services. There is the problem of educating children. Even moves from one State to another can cause great problems and children may have to be left behind and often arrangements made under other legislation to help them. On occasions when a serviceman is sent overseas his children have to be sent back to Australia or perhaps sometimes to England to get the education that they need. The other thing - and this is extremely important - is that servicemen are forced to retire at an early age. Commonwealth Public Servants can opt to retire at 60 or 65, and they do not have to obtain a new job after retirement. Some do obtain a new job and some perhaps get a part time job. The serviceman, on the other hand, would be unlikely to retire after about 55 years. I suppose most of them would retire in their 40s. This is at a time when it is urgent for them to get some alternative employment. That is not easy because they are a little old to start off with new ways. On the other hand, of course, they do have service portability and this often helps them to find employment. 
So, as I mentioned, it was extremely hard to get some of those who were looking at this problem to see the difference that existed between the DFRB and the Commonwealth Public Service arrangements for retirement. However, the report was tabled in May 1972, after 20 months. I know that the Committee had considerable problems. One of them was not being able to get reports on costs of the scheme as quickly as they would have wanted. In fact, I do not know whether these costs were finally obtained from the Actuary before the report was presented. But, as I have mentioned, this is one of the most complex pieces of legislation on the statute book. There was a great deal of work to be done and I and other members of the then Government did everything that we could to try to force this legislation along. 1 am afraid that the present Minister for Defence, while he called for implementation of the report last year, was not prepared to see that there were problems if the report were implemented. Of course, this became apparent the moment the report was produced because there were 2 ways in which a serviceman would have been disadvantaged if the report had been implemented in its entirety. I think something like 12,000 servicemen would have been worse off by its immediate implementation. This was realised very quickly and a letter was received by me from the  chairman  of the Committee saying that the Committee hoped that the Government would see that no serviceman was worse off as a result of the report. We looked at this matter very quickly, but there were 2 areas to be considered. There was the late entrant officer, owing to the change of the criterion for payment of pension to length of service at retirement rather than the rate of pay at retirement, as had been in the previous system. The other point was the pension reduction penalty of 5 per cent for each uncompleted year of service if the officer retired at his own request before the normal retiring age for rank. The then Government announced as quickly as it possibly could that no officers would be worse off as a result of the report and it set up a committee under  Mr Rutherford,  the Queensland State Actuary to advise the then Government how to transfer servicemen from the pre-1959 and the post 1959 scheme to any new scheme. I am extremely sorry that the present Government saw fit to abolish that inquiry. I believe that as a result of that action we will never have available the information we would have had the inquiry proceeded. We also said that any decision would be backdated to 1 October 1972. It was realised that drafting problems would have made it quite impossible to bring the scheme into the House before the end of the last Parliament. The then Government accepted 7 specific recommendations. I will give them quickly. They were: 
Marriages of pensioners before age 60 will be recognised for widows' pension purposes; 
A dependent spouse of a female member or pensioner will be entitled to pension on her death; 
Subject to conditions yet to be determined, de facto spouses and illegitimate children will be recognised for pension purposes; 
Children's benefits payable to students will be continued until age 25; 
There will be payable to the estate of  a  contributor or pensioner, who dies without leaving dependants entitled to pension, an amount equal to one and one half times his contributions less, in the case of a pensioner, any pension or other benefits received; 
The tapering of the entitlements of more senior officers will be eliminated; 
A retiring member will not be penalised by reason of his refusing to sign on to a reserve force. 
We also adopted another 6 recommendations in a modified form. Because of the time limit I shall not read them. But I was interested to hear the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill. A number of things which had been accepted by the previous Government about 6 months ago were referred to in the Minister's speech with an air of novelty as though they were being introduced for the first time. I hope that this was not the intention but certainly if one reads the Minister's speech one could be excused for believing that the Minister was introducing these things which we had agreed to do some 6 months previously. 
We then set up a committee to advise use of the criteria by which the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits pensions should be adjusted annually after retirement to maintain relativity. Professor Pollard was asked to advise the Committee. I am only sorry that until now no final agreement or how these things should be done appears to have been made. But I hope that the Minister will continue to work hard on those areas of this Bill which have not yet been worked out. Apart from these aspects the Minister's speech does not appear to go much further. As I said, he mentioned some things which we accepted last October - 7 months ago. They are restated. The rest of the speech is really a number of platitudes like, for example: 
The conversion of some 78,000 contributors to the new scheme . . . will involve individual calculations. 
He goes on to say how many people this will apply to and how long it will take to do these individual calculations. He said: 
I will be arranging for these cases - to be given priority treatment. 
They are people who have retired since 10 October 1972- He then said: 
. suitable methods of adjustment . . . are currently being eqamined. 
He referred to development in updating in other Commonwealth pension schemes and said that these had to be carefully investigated. 
None of this really takes us any further. I only hope that work will continue at a great speed with this scheme. I am glad to see the scheme introduced. I believe it is a monument to the work of John Jess and we should be magnanimous in paying a tribute to him. Without him in all probability we would not be debating this matter here tonight. I have only 2 minor matters in which I disagree with the proposals of the Jess Committee - and they are minor matters. They are to do with administration, and I suppose they are not very important in the overall scheme of things. The first is that the DFRB Fund, which now stands at $174m, will be frozen and wound up. I believe that an invested fund is likely in the long term to return earnings at a level that enables members' contributions to provide greater support for benefits than would otherwise be the case. We would have maintained this fund. We, in fact, made arrangements for it to be invested in a very much better way than previously so that it could earn a lot more. We had legal advice that the transfer of the existing fund could raise a possible question whether the transfer represented an acquisition of property by the Commonwealth in terms of section 51, (XXXI), which relates to just terms. I do not know whether this is so or not, but it is hard to know what is the true situation. The money does not belong to the Commonwealth; it beloings to the servicemen. I do not know how something can be acquired from the servicemen on just terms. 
The other point is that the administration and the responsibility for the DFRB Fund is now to be transferred to the Department of Defence from the Treasury. We were satisfied that the present arrangement with the one organisation handling the Superannuation Board and the DFRB Board and servicing both the DFRB and the superannuation scheme is effective and results in significant economic improvement through the common use of highly specialised staff and facilities. I am sure, that the system of sharing was more satisfactory. I do not really quarrel on this point. 
 1 know. But it was one of the recommendations which I, although I was Minister for Defence at the time, did not agree with. I felt that the actual administration, apart from policy making, was better left in the hands of the Board and the Treasurer and the Treasury, who handle such matters. Unfortunately we now have 3 schemes, not two. This was a problem to which the Treasury drew our attention. So I hope that the Government will work extremely hard over the parliamentary recess and at the earliest possible moment will arrange that the people concerned can be transferred into one easily undectored scheme as was recommended by the Jess Committee. Otherwise, I support the scheme. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
About 4 weeks ago this matter came up for discussion. I led for the Opposition. It was late in the evening and I had nearly completed my speech when, under the new rules, time was called on me. I do not propose to go through the whole speech again but can I just very quickly state the Opposition's position on this matter. First of all, of course the Opposition supports this Lock to Kimba pipeline. I say 'of course it supports it' because this proposal was announced by the previous Government - the McMahon Government - and the present Government is just picking up the tab and putting into legislative form what we had agreed to do. 
This proposal is that we should make a grant to South Australia of $2.1m under the national water resources development program. The original program of the Lock to Kimba pipeline was started by the South Australian Government at an estimated cost of $5m. When it had completed part of the pipeline the South Australian Government ran out of money and it is now estimated that $3m will be required to complete the scheme. The Commonwealth will pay $2.1m and the South Australian Government will pay the balance. The proposal is for 69 miles of trunk main on Eyre Peninsula and 170 miles of distribution branch mains for stock domestic purposes and for the 2 townships of Dark Peak and Kimba that will be served by this proposal on Eyre Peninsula. 
At present Kimba is supplied from 2 small earthern reservoirs. The water supply is most unsatisfactory as the rainfall is about 16 inches annually. This proposal will provide a water supply to those  2  townships as well as supplies for stock and domestic purposes throughout the area with water pumped from the Polda Basin. It is of interest to note that the Polda Basin has a large quantity of high quality underground water which was found through the accelerated water resources measurement program initiated by the previous Government. All told 207 properties will be covered by the supply thus permitting increases in livestock numbers. The estimate on which the project is based is that it should be possible to increase sheep numbers by about 71,000 and cattle numbers by about 22,000, in addition to providing domestic supplies to farmers and people in the 2 townships that I have mentioned. 
The annual net return to farmers in the area will be increased by nearly $lm. That estimate is based on a wool price of 40c per lb whereas at present wool is bringing far more than that. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has said that it is an economically sound project with internal rates of return from 7.7 per cent to about 8.1 per cent. It is just one more example of the work of the national water resources development program, a program which I had the honour to initiate in this House some years ago. It has changed the face of Australia. 
The total Commonwealth commitment for the program is about $150m. A number of dams have been completed and many more have been started. I refer to the Fairbairn Dam; the Kolan Dam at Bundaberg; the Copetoun Dam on the Gwydir River; the King River Dam; the Barr Creek and Lake Hawthorne weirs on the Murray River which prevent a lot of salt water from flowing back into the Murray River; the Keith-Tailem Bend pipeline; the Western Australian Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme, the Long.fordCressey irrigation scheme in Tasmania; the flood mitigation works costing about $9m in the north-east of New South Wales; and finally, 2 projects the future of which is uncertain. I do not know whether the present Government will proceed with them. I refer to the Pike Creek dam and the Millewa domestic and stock scheme. In addition to the enormous amount of work that has been done as a result of the national water resources development program, during the same period there has been considerable expenditure on the accelerated water resources measurement program and on the Ord River Dam, built at a cost of about $60m after many difficulties were overcome. Construction of the Dartmouth Dam is now under way at last after suffering some problems through  Mr Dunstan  and his colleagues. 
The Blowering Dam has been completed and the Snowy Mountains scheme has virtually been completed. 
The water resources program initiated by the previous Government has increased production enormously, and more importantly, it has stabilised production. This is particularly important to some of the remote areas of Australia which have an unreliable rainfall. It has also helped considerably towards decentralisation. The Opposition supports this measure, of course, because it was announced by the previous Government. 
This is a quite incredible situation. As the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said, we are turning the national forum into a farce. This has been exhibited in this House today. A Bill has been returned to this House from the Senate. The Bill took many months to prepare. It was debated and the Opposition in the Senate brought forward a number of amendments, some of which have been put into the Bill. Suddenly, we are presented with some additional amendments produced by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The Minister had months to produce a Bill which apparently he thought was adequate and satisfactory when he introduced it in the House. He said it was adequate anyway, whether he thought it was or not. Yet, now, major amendments are being proposed by the Minister. After chasing around the House this morning I finally got a copy of the amendments at about 9.30 and the Opposition is expected to deal with them only hours later. They relate to matters extremely difficult for anyone to understand, or to see their implications, whether they be experienced in this field or not. The Opposition has been given only a few hours to consider the position, yet it is expected to contribute to this debate. Whilst I am Opposition spokesman in this field, as the Minister knows, I cannot give my own views on this subject. I have to put forward the Opposition's view and therefore the matter must be considered first by the executive of the Opposition and secondly at the Party meetings of the Opposition. 
It is quite incredible that attempts should be made by the Minister to change his own Bill at such short notice. Of course, we are debating these amendments against a background of delays that have already been caused by the Minister in bringing natural gas to Sydney from Gidgealpa. We know that the managing director of Santos recently informed the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd that because Of the actions of the Minister there will be a delay of at least 6 months in bringing natural gas to Sydney from Gidgealpa. We do not propose to cause any further delays although we are strongly opposed to many aspects of this Bill. All I can say is that times will change and when they do we can amend this and many other Acts at our earliest opportunity. 
Although I raised a point of order I think that the Minister continued to read his prepared speech which covered the whole field instead of the amendment which he had actually moved to clause 13. The amendment spells out the functions of the Authority. These functions are to be extended in 4 ways. Firstly, the Authority will 'ensure continuity of supplies of natural gas, that is free from impurities'. I do not know why it is necessary to include those words. For some years now, Australia has had supplies of natural gas. It now has natural gas at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. There never has been any lack of continuity of supplies. Special actions are taken by any authority to ensure that there will be continuity. This does not mean that they have to join up an additional field so that if there is a temporary disruption in one field backup supplies are available from another which might be hundreds or thousands of miles away. Obviously to do this would involve an unacceptable cost. Instead, existing justification plants are maintained using coal, liquid petroleum gas or various other fuels to provide a temporary continuity of supply until such time as the problem is rectified. We do not oppose that part of the amendment, but I do not see why it is necessary. 
The second paragraph of the amendment states that a function of the Authority is: 
To ensure that natural gas supplied by the Authority is available at a gate-valve delivery price that is, at all times, uniform throughout Australia, after making due allowances for differences in the calorific values of natural gas obtained from different sources'. 
We think that is a fine aspiration. One would like to see an equality of price so that one person does not suffer vis-a-vis another. The Opposition parties, when in Government, went out of their way to see that the price of petrol was subsidised in the more remote areas of Australia so that it would not he more than 4d above the price in the capital cities. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has a uniformity of price at capitals for its steel products. However, one of the extraordinary anomalies is that to take steel from Wollongong to Melbourne the railway has to be used, and that railway passes through such cities as Wagga and Albury where the price of steel is higher than it is at Melbourne which is at the end of the line. Basically, as an aspiration, we do not quarrel with this part of the amendment, but 
I can visualise situations in which these would be a disadvantage to remote locations. 
If there is to be a standard price for natural gas in Australia it certainly would react adversely to Alice Springs. The people in Alice Springs, being close to the enormous Palm Valley gas supply, would expect to be able to get gas cheaper than it is in Melbourne or Sydney. If they could do so it could well be that they could attract industries to that area. This would encourage decentralisation. However, if an industry can set itself up in Melbourne or Sydney and get Palm Valley gas for the same price at which it could get it at Alice Springs, it would be very hesitant to go to Alice Springs. As an aspiration or an objective, the second part of the amendment may be ideal. However, we have to look at its practicality. This is a very major topic and no-one in this House could be expected to debate it fully a few hours after looking at it. This is something which would have to be worked out over quite a long period of time. 
I turn now to the final 2 paragraphs in the amendment moved by the Minister. They also relate to the functions of the Authority. They are: 
to ensure that condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas are retained and processed in Australia in order that they may be available to augment supplies of motor spirit and similar fuels obtained from indigenous sources; and 
to secure, control and retain reserves of petroleum adequate to meet the long term needs of the Australian people. 
I am at a loss to understand why it was necessary for the Minister to seek the addition of these functions. He knows perfectly well that as the Minister he now has the power to agree to or refuse any applications for export. It seems to me that what he is seeking to do is to transfer from himself to the Authority the power to decide whether there should be exports. I intend to move what I regard as a minor amendment to the Minister's amendment with which I hope he will agree. I move: 
In proposed paragraph (f), after the words 'to ensure that', insert the words 'sufficient quantities of. 
That paragraph then would read: 
To ensure that sufficient quantities of condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas are retained. . . . 
As the proposed clause is now written it is virtually a directive to the Pipeline Authority that in no circumstances at all should there be exports. It virtually prohibits export of any sort. I believe that there are cases in which it would be necessary for exports to occur because without them the cost of developing and bringing into production some of these fields could be excessive and they might not be brought into production. Therefore I do not think we should say that in all circumstances there is to be a prohibition. The amendment I have moved has been circulated and will be seconded. The Minister has transferred to the Authority, and not even to the fuel and energy authority, a power which he already has, a power which one would expect to be exercised by the Government after it had available to it the best possible information. 
Firstly I think I should point out that if there was ever an example of the fact that we have rushed into this matter wilh great speed, it is the prepared speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  which has been just circulated to me, in which it is stated that in the United States of America there are 170,000 miles of natural gas mains to serve 210,000 million people. 
Yes, I hope the other figures are a little better. 
AH right, but this shows that the speech was prepared in an enormous rush- 
At least the Minister ought to get his figures correct. The Minister has been quibbling and has tried to put the blame on to the environmental inquiry. I pointed out to the House the other day that this is not so at all. Because the Minister for Minerals and Energy was not in the House at the time I asked the Prime Minister the following question: 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Managing Director of Santos Ltd has written to the Australian Gas Light Co. advising that its ability to maintain the 1 December 1974 target date for the completion of all planned facilities relating to this initial supply to Sydney will begin to slip as it has been necessary to terminate arrangements with the engineering contractors for detailed design and specifications . . . that this action was deemed necessary because the Minister for Minerals and Energy advised Santos Ltd during an interview that, until such time as the situation as to the ownership of the pipeline had been clarified, the consortium should not undertake any major capital investment? 
I will quote it later on. I have also given a copy to the Prime Minister so that he could see this letter. So it is quite obvious that the Minister cannot blame the environmental inquiry. 
Let me get back to the. amendment which has been proposed by the Senate. What the Senate is trying to do is see that the House of Representatives is given full documentation of the need for the building of any pipeline before it agrees to the expenditure of vast sums on that project. 
Well, we have not got it and we are trying to see that the Parliament is informed. I had a discussion with the Minister earlier and he said that any assessment that is made available to him will be made available to the Parliament. I hope that the Minister will confirm this because we have grave doubts. All that the Minister has done in some areas so far is to paint with a broad brush on a map 6,000 miles of pipeline which he says will be built by the Authority. We have grave doubts so far that many of these pipelines will be necessary. Until such time as there has been a full, responsible and thorough investigation and a feasibility study I think we have the right to ask whether these are necessary. For example, I pointed out that the Minister has said that he will be seeking to join Palm Valley and the south of the Northern Territory with Kalgoorlie and Perth. We know that Perth already has a supply of natural gas and that the cost of this additional back-up would be some $240m. Surely we are entitled to ask that before the Parliament agrees to an additional expenditure of this sort a full documentation of the assessment of the cost of providing the project, the need for it and of any other benefits that may be available from it, should be available. So, that is all we are trying to do. We are not trying to apply this amendment to the Gidgealpa pipeline because we know that it was properly costed and analysed by private enterprise. Therefore, perhaps the wording of the amendment which has been inserted by the Senate did not correctly convey the full meaning of the Opposition. We are not anxious to cause delays in the present scheme. The Senate amendment states: 
No pipeline work exceeding in cost $2m shall be undertaken or constructed by the Authority unless and until it has been referred to the Public Works Committee. . . . 
Perhaps it would have been better to have said 'no project' because one can see that if we say 'pipeline work' it could well be that every time an additional compressor pump or something of that sort was put in the matter would have to go to the Public Works Committee. What we intended to refer to was a project. 
I would call the whole of the Gidgealpa to Sydney pipeline proposal, with its off-shoots to Albury, Wagga and Newcastle, one project and I would think there would be need for only one report to be made by the Public Works Committee. But I say to the Minister for Minerals and Energy that we must be convinced of the need for these things. So, will the Minister accept an amendment on the lines that, firstly, it does not apply until, say, after 1 December 1973 - which certainly would exclude the Gidgealpa pipeline - and, secondly, it applies only to the full project, not to every individual pipeline work that is being undertaken? 
The Opposition accepts the amendment. I am glad that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has seen fit to move it in terms so close to the amendment inserted by the Senate and has realised the necessity for it. 
Amendment to Senate's amendment agreed to. 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  proposed: 
That Senate's amendment No. 3, as amended, be agreed to. 
Again I thank the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  for having accepted this amendment. I am sure that having looked closely at it, it was the correct thing to do. I am glad that the Government has had an open mind and has accepted the amendment. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  agreed to: 
That Senate's amendment No. 4 be agreed to. 
Resolutions reported. 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question which is supplementary to the question asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. My question concerns the Prime Minister's statement in a recent television interview that the Government's raid on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was the greatest mistake that the present Government has made since it was elected to office. What action has the Prime Minister taken to censure those responsible for this mistake? What action or actions has he taken to ensure that such a grave mistake cannot be repeated? 
-The Opposition naturally is very glad that the Government has agreed to this amendment which will put Trans-Australia Airlines on the same footing as Ansett Transport Industries Ltd from the point of view of having to borrow money instead of being able to use its superannuation funds.It will put it on the same footing as more than 30 Commonwealth instrumentalities which do not use their superannuation funds. I am glad that the Government has seen fit to accept this amendment. I am only sorry that it did not ac-  cept it at an earlier time so that we could have had this Bill in operation as an Act some months ago. 
As we stated quite clearly, the facts were that TAA was using a sum which I believe was about $29m, increasing at a rate of about $3m per annum. This was giving it an advantage over its competitor. Australia has a 2-airline system and we do not believe that there should be advantage for either airline. We certainly said that TAA was getting an advantage which was worth at least 500,000 per annum. Not only that, but it was able to use that money as it saw fit. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  did go part of the way towards meeting our request earlier by saying that funds borrowed from the superannuation fund of TAA would be charged interest at 7 per cent instead of 5.5 per cent, as had previously occurred. He has now taken the very wise course of agreeing that those funds should not be used by TAA and, as I pointed out at the time, the Bill was previously before the House, this is in accord with the agreement which was made between the previous government and  Sir Frederick  Scherger, the head of TAA. As a result of that agreement, of course, TAA was given a number of advantages. As I said before, a little bit of sugar makes the medicine go down. The sugar, of course, was that TAA received advantages in being able to run motels and activities closely related to airline operations and could go into some intrastate airline operations provided that was agreed to by the State government concerned. It could also acquire shareholdings and various things of that sort. 
After TAA had made this arrangement with the previous Government and after the previous Government had made available the sum of, I think, $25m in the previous Budget, TAA then tried to take up the cheese and not spring the trap. It has now done so. The previous arrangement that superannuation funds must not be used has been agreed to by the Government. At the same time TAA will receive advantages which I think it is only fair that it should have. The Opposition is delighted that the Minister has accepted this vital amendment by the Senate. 
The Bill before the House is a very minor one. It seeks to abolish the full time position of executive member of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and substitute for it a position of part time member. Honourable members will recall that the original reason for setting up the position of executive member was that  Sir Philip  Baxter, when he first became  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission, had other duties to perform notably as Vice-Chancellor of the University of New South Wales.  Sir Philip  was then the outstanding expert in Australia on atomic energy and he made a great contribution to our Australian Atomic Energy Commission, while the day to day administration was carried out by  Mr Maurice  Timbs who was then the executive member. On his retirement from the University of New South Wales  Sir Philip  became full time  chairman  of the Commission and later showed the prestige with which he is regarded throughout the world by being appointed  chairman  of the International Atomic Energy Agency Board of Governors for 1969- 70. Now  Sir Philip  has retired from the position of  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and I wish to place on record my appreciation of the services of a man who devoted a great deal of time to the service of the community and the British Empire in war arid in peace and who was not only a highly competent technical officer but also an extremely able administrator. He has built up a body of experts in the Commission whose research work is highly regarded throughout the world.  Sir Philip  has been replaced by  Mr R.  W. Boswell, O.B.E., M.Sc, a previous member of the Commission and a previous secretary of the Department of National Development, while  Mr Maurice  Timbs has become Secretary of the Department of Services and Property. 
The Commission now consists of 4 extremely able men. I can claim some credit for this as I appointed 3 of the 4 members to the Commission. Although I did not appoint  Mr Boswell  as  chairman,  I appointed him at an earlier stage when he was Secretary of the Department of National Development. Al) these members have made a considerable contribution to atomic energy research and application in Australia. I want to thank in particular  Dr R.  Ward, M.A., Ph.D. (Cantab.), a senior research officer of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, who has done much to keep the Commission informed of industry's needs and problems and to inform industry what areas there are in which atomic energy and particularly radio isotopes can be useful to them. Now there will be one vacancy on the Commission which the Minister will shortly fill. In doing so I hope that he will bear in mind primarily the greatest good of our country, as I believe I did, and not seek just to give a suitable and well paid job to some Party supporter. 
There are 2 areas in which I feel the Commission can be and needs to be further strengthened. This is certainly not in the technical field as it is undoubtedly the acknowledged technical expert in atomic energy in Australia. It amazes me that people are sometimes prepared to take the word of university professors, or so-called experts with little or no knowledge, especially in the field of radiation, instead of taking -advice from the specially constituted and independent body set up to advise the Government in nuclear fields. For example, we all know that a major report by the Commission on atmospheric nuclear testing was not made available to the public because it did not support the line that was being taken at the time against nuclear fallout. This report was available to the Government in February and was  longer  and much more detailed than a similar report drawn up by a committee of the Australian Academy of Science and released late in April. 
I said that there are 2 areas in which the Commission could be further strengthened. One of these is in bringing it still closer to industry. The other is in getting nuclear power accepted by the public. After all, as the Commission points out, uranium is expected to become the basic fuel for man's energy needs in the latter part of this century, both for power and for nuclear powered ships. There is a need to convince the public of the inherent safety of nuclear energy, the safe disposal of its wastes and the fact that strict measures are taken to ensure this continued safety at all times. Public relations must rank high in the future tasks of the Commission and I hope that the new Commissioner and the Commission generally will be able to make a noteworthy contribution in this area. 
Finally, whilst the Commission is primarily aimed at research and advice to the Government on atomic energy, I believe that insufficient research is being undertaken in Australia in another field of energy which shows great future promise, namely, solar energy. I hope that the Government will consider broadening the scope of the Commission to enable it to carry out this work which obviously it is eminently suited to do. The Opposition supports this Bill. 
I am g!ad to have the opportunity tonight to speak about a matter which is of great public concern in the south-eastern States of Australia. I refer to the recent letter by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Premiers concerned suggesting that no further contracts be let until certain aspects of the building of the Dartmouth Dam have been investigated, lt appears that the Prime Minister in his letter suggested 3 things. The first was that the building of the dam be undertaken more slowly and, therefore, that costs be spread over a longer period. The second was to see whether the salinity in the River Murray could be reduced by some other method which was either cheaper or quicker. The third was to see whether water from the Blowering Dam could be released so that it would not be necessary to build the Dartmouth Dam or so that it could be built more slowly while using the Blowering water. 
The more one looks at this whole matter the more extraordinary the proposition becomes. 1 can well understand the Coombs task force bringing up this matter. It was given the job of telling the Government any ways in which it could reduce expenditure. It put forward a great many propositions, some of which were accepted and many of which were not. 1 can understand the task force bringing up the proposal, but how the Government ever came to endorse it is quite beyond me. Was any assessment made? Were any experts asked for their opinions on this? How did it get through when two of the people who will be vitally affected if what is suggested comes about are the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who are Labor members and whose electorates are further down the Murray and Mumimbidgee Rivers. 
 Let us look at the Prime Minister's proposals. The first is that the dam should be built more slowly. We know that the water is needed urgently. The dam should be filling now, not just being built. It would have been, but for the antics of the Dunstan Opposition in the South Australian Parliament which prevented the dam from being commenced until fairly recently. It would give South Australia the first additional water it has had since 1915. It would make available 250,000 additional acre feet to South Australia and it would make available urgently required additional water to New South Wales and Victoria. We know, particularly in the case of New South Wales, that there is a shortage of water in the Murray and that some water is being diverted from the Murrumbidgee for use in the Murray, to make sufficient water available there. If the dam is built more slowly the urgently needed water will not be provided. 
We know that the longer a dam takes to build the more costly it is. There is a provision in the River Murray Commission legislation which says that if the price of a dam or a particular structure is more than 10 per cent more than the price agreed to by the States the matter has to be renegotiated. The Dartmouth Dam is due to go to tender on 15 October this year. That means that before that time there must be a clear understanding by all the tenderers that this work will proceed. One cannot possibly call tenders and then say that it is doubtful whether the project will proceed. We know that by 1 May 1974 the decision is due to be made by the River Murray Commission and by the 4 governments concerned to proceed with this work and to select the successful tenderer. I do not know what is meant by building this dam more slowly. I can recall extremely well that in my early days in politics a Labor government was in power in New South Wales and that government took an incredible time to build dams. In fact it was an extraordinary thing that during the time that the New South Wales Labor Government was in power for 20 years it never commenced a dam which was completed, lt is true that it completed dams that had been commenced before it came into office. It also commenced other dams which were not completed. Here was a record of a Government which had dams lying around the country. When the Government had a bit of money it used day labour to work on the construction of dams, lt would build them for a little while and then leave them rotting with the rabbits getting into them. It would come back two or three years later and spend a little bit more. So we found that dams which started off at a cost of 500,000, as was then the case, finished up costing 20m and taking 20 years to build. Is that the sort of thing we want? 
Of course, dams cost money to build and we get nothing back from them until they are completed. Therefore the faster they are built the better it is for everyone concerned. The Dartmouth dam will be storing water, if there is no impediment by the present Government, by July of 1976 - that is, in less than 3 years time. Surely the best thing to do is to go ahead with the construction of this dam at the greatest possible speed. There is another reason why the dam should be completed and that is, of course, that the speed of building these dams is determined by other factors. For example, the coffer dam, which is a major part of the dam, has to be built at considerable speed in the early stages so that it will not be topped by a flash flood. We know that if the construction of this dam does not proceed fast enough and a flood gets over the top it will carry it away and there will be enormous damage in the Mitta River. So much for the question of whether we should build the dam more slowly. 
The next question is whether salinity can be reduced and therefore avoid the need to build a dam at Dartmouth or the need to build it so quickly. Here we know that the experts have told us that in this time scale no major reduction in salinity can be achieved. Perhaps some minor reductions can be achieved in the Mildura area. But of course we have already undertaken 2 major works, one at Lake Hawthorn and the other at Barr Creek to prevent salinity flowing back into the Murray, and that has improved the water enormously. Can the Blowering Dam water be released? The answer to that, of course, is that the Blowering water is owned by New South Wales. All the waters in any of the tributaries of the Murray are owned by the State concerned irrespective &amp;i whether the Commonwealth builds a dam. But in this case the States have used partly their own money and partly loan moneys which they have to refund and there is no doubt whatsoever that they own all the water in the Blowering Dam. Whilst at the moment there is a little uncommitted water there the States will in the very near future be needing this water because they are undertaking a reappraisal of the Colleambally irrigation area. I am sure that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  would protest very strongly if water in his electorate was taken away and sent down to Adelaide. Of course, one wonders what the national water resource development program is going to get. 
What really concerns me are the snide remarks made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who struts around with all the panache of a pouter pigeon, saying in effect: 'I am the only Prime Minister who has met on this topic with the Premiers in the last 60 years'. All I can say is that what a tragedy it is that he did meet them, because he obviously did not understand the problem at all. Previously Ministers have met and Minis ters knew much more. If it had only been left to Ministers this whole sorry state of affairs would never have happened. The Prime Minister names the water requirements of Albury-Wodonga as a reason for reappraisal. Well, that is just ludicrous, because within this time scale - and we are talking about 3 years to finish the dam - there would be at the most an increase in population of 10,000 people and that would not effect the use at all. He talks about another survey. We have already had an extremely good survey of salinity in the Murray conducted by the outstanding firms of Gutteridge, Haskins &amp; Davey and the Hunting Technical Services. As a result of that we have taken considerable action and we will in time take more. 
The Prime Minister talks about the use of the Blowering water to flush the Murray. Of course, he apparently does not realise at all that you cannot flush water upstream. I would have thought that anyone would realise this. But the worst part of the Murray from the point of view of salinity is the Barr Creek-Kerang-Wakool-Swan Hill area. How do you put water in from the Mumimbidgee and flush it up there, it is just so ludicrous. 
I conclude my remarks by asking why on earth did the Prime Minister not get some technical information from the experts before he rushed into this like a bull into a china shop? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls saying in his policy speech last November: 
Our first help for State programs will be to implement, for all States, the recommendation of the Victorian Decentralisation Committee that 'centres nominated for accelerated development be recognised for telephone charging purposes as extensions of the metropolitan area whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and the capital charged as for local calls'. 
In our first term of office, a Federal Labor Government will concentrate its own initiatives and endeavours on two areas - Albury-Wodonga and Townsville. 
What has happened to this promise? Have not telephone charges been increased rather than decreased in these areas? Was this promise just a political gimmick which can be safely forgotten now that the election is over? 
Before the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  interrupted the Budget debate the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  in the first Budget speech he has made in this House, said some things with which I find myself in agreement. Firstly, he said that it would do the Opposition no harm if it gave some praise to the Government occasionally. I agree with this. The only difficulty I have is finding the occasions on which I can give praise. But I do not doubt that there will be some. I will certainly do as he suggests if I come across some measures that one can praise. Secondly, the honourable member said that the Opposition has a entirely different philosophy to that of honourable members on the Government side of the House. I could not agree more there. Thank godness that we have and thank goodness that the public realises that we have. He said: 'We said that we would do certain things and we are doing them'. He can say that again. Of course, it is the public's fault that at the last election it did not realise the full extent of what the Labor Party would do. We told the public. But I must admit that even I, after 23 years in politics, did not believe that a Labor Government would do what it has done as quickly as it has done. This is why the Government is losing so much support throughout the country. 
But I now start to find myself in disagreement with some of the things which were said by the honourable member. He said: He rejected entirely paragraph 8 of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  which states that the Budget fails to honour election promises. I do not want to go through the full list of the promises that have not yet been honoured. But let me just start off with the promise that a Labor Government would spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. I ask about the promise that I questioned the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on this morning, that is, to give phone connections between Albury-Wodonga and Townsville and the capital cities at local call rates. This promise has been dishonoured. What do we find about the promise to retain for private schools the amounts they are now getting, while saying that the Government would give additional amounts and that no one would be worse off as a result of the Budget? That has been dishonoured. What about the interest rates, which are to go up? So one could go on. 
I disagree too with the honourable member when he says that people may be forgiven for thinking that the contents of the Budget related only to increases in tax on cigarettes and petrol which unfortunately were a necessary means of raising more revenue but nevertheless were justifiable on social grounds. It is an extraordinary thing how circumstances alter cases because only this time last year when Labor got out its magnificent publication 'It's Time' its policy in regard to prices, as set out in this publication, was as follows: 
All this would be bad enough, excepting the Government compounds the problem by increasing postal charges, telephone rates, radio and television licences and by increasing indirect taxes . . .petrol and cigarettes, for example. 
Where does the Labor Party stand now? It is ludicrous for the Labor Party to say one thing when it is in opposition and to do something completely different when it is in government. 
The Budget traditionally gives honourable members an opportunity to talk about a wide range of things. It is one of the few occasions on which this can happen. I know that you,  Mr Speaker,  would keep us close to the subject if we were discussing any other Bill. But in a Budget debate one can discuss almost anything one likes. I believe it is recorded that on one occasion an honourable member advocated that instead of burying people horizontally they ought to be buried vertically. The honourable member who followed him in the debate is reported to have said that this was an excellent idea because it would give the person being buried a quicker start to the next world but that the only trouble was that one would not know whether to bury a person upwards or downwards. I think it is recorded that this member was later certified. But I make the point that the Budget debate does give us the opportunity to discuss a broad range of subjects, not only those contained in the Budget itself. A great number of members who have spoken in this debate have concentrated on the Budget. They have analysed at great length the economics of it and the effects that it will have on the nation. 
I intend to look not only at the Budget, because it is a portion of what the Government has done, but at everything the Government has done since it has had its period in office. We have served 9 months of hard labour. The Government when it was in opposition tried most unfairly to label the previous Government as a 'do nothing' Government. This was completely inaccurate but, unfortunately, because of the great lack of cooperation and the attacks of the mass media it was extremely difficult for us to get over to the public everything that was being done. Nevertheless, a great deal was done. I think that if one can find a fault with the present Government it is that it seeks to do everything. The present Government seems to believe that the public should not do anything for themselves and that it should do everything. Its greatest problem as I see it is that all it has aimed at doing is to cut up the cake and not to make the cake larger. The result is that the Government has withdrawn many incentives and encouragements to people, particularly private individuals and private citizens in industry. 
I want to look at all of the Government's achievements' - I use inverted commas - during the 9 months which it has been in office. There was a tendency a while ago for people to say: "Poor Gough, he has a pretty weak team but he is not doing a bad job himself. I will come back to this afterwards. But I would say that if the team is no good one looks at the leader to begin with. Australia's standing in the eyes of the world has dropped disastrously and the only person who can be responsible for the way in which we appear to people overseas is the leader of the Government, the Prime Minister. I say this because he is not only the Prime Minister of this country but the Foreign Minister. On his rather disastrous overseas trips he went as the Foreign Minister and he spoke as such. 
Before we look in detail at the Prime Minister let us take a quick look at this team and consider its 'achievements' during the period the Government has been in office. Let us start off with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard).  What was contained in the publication 'It's Time' was authorised by the present Prime Minister and agreed to by him. On the subject of defence that publication stated that an Australian Labor Party Government's defence concept would be to allocate not less than 3.5 per cent of Australia's gross national product for defence in each annual Budget. Suddenly, of course, we find that we are down to a figure about which people seem to be uncertain - whether it is 2.6 per cent or 2.9 per cent. But the figure is certainly in that area. We have lost 15,000 troops and we are told that many more are to be sacked. I think that another 6,000 are to be sacked in the not too distant future. The Cockburn Sound project has been cancelled at least temporarily. The DDL project has been cancelled; so has the proposal for the purchase of a new tank to replace the 'Centurion' tank. The Government is not to proceed with the replacement for the 'Mirage' aircraft. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, what an extraordinary situation it was that we had a Minister gallivanting around the world in a VIP aircraft with many hangers-on to look at a plane which the Government had decided that it would not buy. Of course, the most urgent requirement - a replacement for the Neptune - has been cancelled for the present. Even flying time has been reduced. I do not know how one is meant to learn these things because a person cannot just sit in a Link trainer and obtain all the experience he needs there. We can have proper Services only if we have plenty of time taken for the exercises that are necessary. One could go on with the disastrous situation relating to defence. 
I come now to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  Even the Prime Minister himself said that the Attorney-General made the greatest mistake which the Australian Labor Party had made since it came into office. The head of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation said that the remarks of the Attorney-General were gravely damaging to ASIO. When I asked the Prime Minister what action he had taken to ensure that this does not happen again, he said: 'Oh, it is secret'. Of course, we have been told that there is no Cabinet solidarity here. The Prime Minister has gone out of his way to denigrate his Attorney-General in taking an action which the Prime Minister believed was the greatest mistake made by the Labor Party since it came into office. 
I come to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I must say of the Minister that when he keeps to his portfolio he does not seem to do a bad job. But the trouble is that he does not keep to it very often. We see welcomes being given to our erstwhile enemy the Vietcong, and to the Chinese and yet if anyone is the least bit centre of the road or right wing, such as the Taiwanese, the Rhodesians, the South Africans and the Portuguese, they are unacceptable. But the left wing is acceptable. One can go on through this list of what must be one of the most disastrous governments this country unfortunately has had. 
We come to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  Again, one can look at what was said in this great document headed 'It's Time'. There was no doubt that the Labor Party had magnificent publicity; the only trouble was that the publicity had nothing to do with the sort of government it was going to put into operation once it came into office. I suppose members of the Labor Party said: 'That does not matter. All we want to do is get into government'. Everyone knows that inflation is rising at a tremendous rate. It is estimated to be at 13 per cent at the moment but could well reach anything up to 20 per cent before the end of the year. Late last year in its publication 'It's Time' the Labor Party said: 
Inflation cannot be ignored in the hope that it will go away, as the Government seems to believe. The Australian Labor Party sees inflation control as the Government's responsibility. Not yours. 
Those comments were very nice in Opposition, but Labor now is in government and it has done nothing at all about inflation. 
What, 3 revaluations of the dollar in 9 months? I cannot see that that will have any effect on inflation but it will have a quite vital effect on a number of people who export, such as primary producers or industrial producers. We know that mining companies alone have lost $75m on contracts which had been entered into and that was due only to the last revaluation. 
Let us take the next Minister, the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  I believe that we had one of the best health schemes in the world. This is generally acknowledged. I am glad to see that the Minister for Health - I think he spells it Helth - is at the table today. To my way of thinking, only 2 problems existed in the health scheme under the previous Government and they were 2 fairly minor problems which could have been overcome and, undoubtedly, this would have created an extremely good scheme. The problems were that some people were not covered and there was a difficulty in covering doctors' fees, as some doctors would not abide by the agreed fees. In order to get over this we find that the present Government is having a head-on fight with the doctors. It is all very well to say that honourable members opposite have a mandate. They brought out 140 promises before the last election and were elected by a small majority and then honourable members opposite say that they have a mandate to do everything that was contained in their policy speech. I do not accept this point of view. In fact, it has been shown by polls that the proposal of the Labor Party in respect of health is not acceptable to the majority of people in Australia. 
So, one comes to that rather poor character, the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  I wanted to ask the Minister a question yesterday but when I got in here I suddenly found that he had disappeared. We were told by the Prime Minister that the Minister for Northern Development is expected to return some time in October. I also read today that the Minister is going to be in China, so it is a case of 'Where is our wandering boy tonight?' Never has there been a man more completely denigrated or whose reputation has been more completely blackened than the honourable member for Dawson. He was a man who, I think, came in ninth in the Cabinet and yet he has been given absolutely nothing to do except look after sugar. He said the other day that this was a magnificent Budget. He was asked what was in the Budget for northern development and he said: 'Oh, I have $200,000 with which to carry out an assessment in the Burdekin River area'. He neglected to say that the previous Government, in water conservation alone, had had a program which originally provided $50m and, when that program was completed, another program providing $10Om was established. But of course, the mere fact that the Government is trying to stop the construction of the Dartmouth Dam shows that there is absolutely no possibility of the Minister for Northern Development getting any further allocations. 
I see that my time is running out. It is impossible to go through all the ills of this disastrous Ministry in such a short time. One could come to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who has established a record. We have been told that Australian workers could lose as much as $50m in wages in 1973 and this undoubtedly is a record. We were told before the election: 'All you have to do is put the Labor Party in government. We understand the workers and the Liberal-Country Party Government does not. Once you put us back there will be no strikes at all.' Strikes have gone up by 64 per cent so far. I do not have time to deal with the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who, I think, undoubtedly is the most disastrous of all. 
I will use another time to deal with the Minister for Minerals and Energy. But all I can say is that in the book of Labor disasters the Minister would not only get a full chapter to himself but would also have the preface. Seriously, it is quite tragic to see the extraordinary extent to which confidence has gone out of the mining industry. This is the job of the Minister - to see that the mining industry is prosperous. Yet shares have dropped and people are pulling out. We are told in London: 'Do not buy Australian shares'. The Japanese have withdrawn from a $150m project in which they were to have been involved. This has been brought about by constant denigration of the miners. They have been called hill-billies and mugs. However, 1 will devote more time to that on another occasion. 
Let me conclude this rather tragic recitation of what the Government has been able to do to undermine this country in 9 months by saying that I believe the Prime Minister has been the most tragic of all. First of all, he allowed Ministers to attack the United States. My recollection is not very good but I think the Minister who is now sitting opposite me, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  is one of those who jumped in boots and all to say everything he could about these thugs who had been our friends for a great many years. They were told that they were not to say it again but this did not have the slightest effect - certainly not on the Minister for Overseas Trade. Immediately after that there was a selected Press briefing on the signals intelligence unit in Singapore at which certain people were brought in and told everything that was necessary for them to know. There has been the decision to withdraw troops from the South East Asia Treaty Organisation and the undermining of SEATO by not supporting the naval exercises conducted by that group. There has been the abuse of the French and the wel coming of the Chinese and the Vietcong and the abuse of Lee Kuan Yew and  Mr Heath.  The idea of the mineral cartel certainly did not float but I suppose it was a good idea. Connor said: 'It is right. You have to float this.' But it did not work. In a short period this Government has really been quite disastrous in the actions it has taken. An enormous build-up has occurred in the Public Service. Open government is a joke. Leaks are worse than ever known before. I disagree with the Budget and I agree with the amendment. 
When we went out of office 9 months ago we left behind us a minerals industry which was efficient, looked forward to the future with confidence and was the envy of the world. But what a tragic change has come about in the last 9 months during which the industry has been in the hands of the Minister for 'Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Today uncertainty, chaos and confusion reign supreme in the industry. Almost every form of assistance to the industry either has been abolished or is being phased out rapidly. I am not one who says that a Minister in charge of a particular industry should fight for that industry irrespective of whether it can be economically justified - far from it - but the Minister for Minerals and 'Energy  (Mr Connor)  does have a duty to see that the mining industry remains financially healthy. I think I can say that even at this early stage there are danger signs that it is going into an unhealthy state of decline. 
Take exploration for example. Figures available from the industry lead it to believe that in 1973-74 exploration expenditure, excluding petroleum, will fall to about $60m. This compares with an all time high in 1970-71 of $161. lm. The industry regards at least $100m as the desirable level necessary to sustain growth. In oil, only 2 rigs out of 21 on land are operating and only 6 off-shore. This number will probably decline further as a result of the withdrawal of subsidies. A decline in the rate of exploration expenditure had been apparent before our Government went out of office. It has been exacerbated since by a number of actions of the present Government. First, there is a requirement that 25 per cent of the funds brought into Australia from overseas must be deposited interest free with the Reserve Bank. This effectively increases the interest rate by 33$ per cent and makes it virtually impossible to borrow money from overseas to carry out exploration. In order to reduce the possibility of Australian companies borrowing money in Australia the Minister has persuaded the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to abolish section 77d of the Income Tax Act, which gave a taxation deduction for certain moneys that were subscribed to and used by mining companies. The net effect of these 2 actions has been to reduce drastically the amount of money going into exploration in Australia. As a result Australian companies have had to sack many geologists. Fewer prospects and projects will be coming forward in future years to keep the mining industry expanding. 
The Minister shows a callous and heartless contempt for and a disregard of those in dire straits in the industry. He said that no farmout will be agreed to by the Government if it leads to a dilution of the Australian equity. Let me cite the case of a mining company, Base Minerals Ltd, which had a series of losses caused by technical problems in its tin mine at Emmaville in New South Wales. It is a company having some 900 Australian shareholders, employing 60 men directly, with a fortnightly wage bill of $10,500, and being the largest consumer of electricity in the North West County Council District of New South Wales. The company finally managed to negotiate a satisfactory farm-in with an overseas mining company, Australian Anglo-American Ltd, and on 30 January 1973 an application was submitted for approval to the committee on foreign takeovers. After 3 letters, several telephone calls, 2 meetings and a delay of 6 months the Minister told the company that the Australian Anglo American farm-in had been blocked under the foreign takeovers machinery. A further appeal has been made to the Minister to agree to this farm-in, but in the meantime the mine has been placed on a care and maintenance basis and all employees retrenched with the exception of those necessary to maintain the plant. So 60 employees have been sacked and 900 Australians have lost their money entirely because of the Minister, and the Minister could not care less. What a way to govern the country. I can see nothing wrong with a farm-in with overseas interests where Australians are unable or unprepared to accept the financial risks involved. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  cannot even get his figures right in this matter. He claims that 62 per cent of the Australian mining industry is overseas owned, while the Bureau of Census and Statistics, operating under the Treasurer, says that it is 44 per cent overseas owned. 
Having virtually ensured the liquidation of this small Australian company, the Minister then turned his destructive talents onto the gold mining industry. For some SO years the gold mining industry had enjoyed a tax-free concession on its profits. In recent years it went through some extremely lean times and was able to remain in operation only because of the bounty paid for gold. A sudden rise in the price of gold in the last 12 months has led to a rejuvenation of the industry and to plans to replace obsolete equipment and to bring back into operation some of the old gold mines, particularly those at Norseman, Menzies, Day Dawn and Big Bell. But the industry made its plans without taking into consideration possible actions of the Government. The companies concerned were aghast to find the tax free concession on gold mining profits withdrawn in the last Budget. As a result they have said that projects worth $6m will be shelved unless the Budget measures are reconsidered. The Labor Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  was so appalled by the actions of his federal colleagues that he offered money from his Government to help pay for the preparation of a submission protesting against the Federal Government's action, which he personally will come to Canberra to present. " An even more despicable action by the Minister has been the abolition of the concession on the sale of mining rights allowed to those prospectors who, once in a lifetime, discover an economic mining project. Prospectors have been responsible for the discovery of 3 nickel mines in Western Australia as well as for the discovery of large deposits of uranium, manganese, copper, bauxite and probably a number of other minerals. The cost to revenue of this concession has been estimated at only $200,000 per annum, but it is to be abolished. The extraordinary fact is that in the same Budget provision has been made for $107m to build a gas pipeline which private enterprise wants to finance and build and which the Government will not be able to build in the necessary time scale. 
There have been many other imposts on the mining industry during 9 months of hard labour. Firstly, there was the discontinuance of the investment allowance for manufacturing industry. We believe that industry should be encouraged to process as much as possible of our minerals into metals in Australia. The investment allowance encouraged it to do so. Its withdrawal will encourage it to process overseas. Secondly, there was the discontinuance of the exemption of dividends paid from petroleum profits. This must reduce the search for oil at a time when it is very necessary to step up the search. Thirdly, there was the discontinuance of the exemption of 20 per cent of profits from mining certain prescribed minerals. Fourthly, there were the 3 revaluations of the Australian dollar against the United States dollar while virtually all of our competitors in the mining field moved with the United States dollar. Fifthly, there was the refusal to grant farm-ins and farm-outs and the refusal to renew exploration leases in the Northern Territory. Sixthly, there has been the inaccessibility of Ministers and their quite inexcusable rudeness in dealing with both local and overseas miners. I will say more about that later. Seventhly, there was the introduction of the national pipelines legislation with its threat of socialisation or nationalisation to the oil and gas industries. Eighthly, there was the proliferation of ministeries and public servants with whom the miners have to deal. 
Miners not only have to deal with those and other problems but also have to grapple with inflation and the increased costs caused by direct Government action. Is it any wonder the mining industry is asking why it was singled out to have the bucket tipped over it and why it has bad to experience the disaster of having the honourable member for Cunningham appointed Minister for Minerals and Energy. The public is asking how much longer the Whitlam Government can afford to carry this albatross around its neck. Shares in Australian mining companies are dropping disastrously. Despite booming metal prices overseas they are down to two-thirds of the price they were 9 months ago - at least they were at the time of the Budget and I have no doubt that they have dropped even further. Post Budget assessments by some United Kingdom analysts have resulted in sweeping pessimism in the United Kingdom of the prospects of Australian mining shares. 'Sell Australian Miners' are the headlines. Other headlines say: 'Japanese pull out of $150m ore plant'. An article in the Australian' stated that reliable sources in Japan had claimed that the industry had been very upset by the Australian Government's handling of demands for iron ore price increases earlier this year and was uncertain about future Australian investment policies this year. Everyone in the industry knows that the Minister was so rude to the Japanese during discussions with them that they are looking elsewhere for the placing of their large long term orders for iron ore. 
I see that the Minister is to be one of the 3 Ministers, including the Prime Minister, going to Japan and the People's Republic of China for discussions in October. I appeal to the Prime Minister, for the good of our country, to leave the Minister for Minerals and Energy behind. Not that we. want him here any more, but at least he might do less damage here. I hope that the Prime Minister will not be gulled into believing some of the weird suggestions and beliefs of this Minister. It was most unfortunate that the Prime Minister floated the idea during his recent trip overseas that mineral producing nations should form a cartel to restrict supplies and jack up prices of mineral sales to the have-nots. If a mining company suggested similar action it would be prosecuted immediately under the Sherman anti-trust laws or under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. 
The Prime Minister seems to have swallowed hook, line and sinker the Minister's oft repeated statement about the impending energy crisis. This tale is so far from the truth that the Treasury had to put out a special booklet refuting these theories in what, for the Public Service, are very strong words. This booklet gives the lie completely to the Minister. For example, it points out that whilst known world deposits of oil are sufficient for only 31 years' usage at current rates, or 20 years' usage assuming the past rate of exponential growth is maintained, undoubtedly, much more oil will be discovered. It points out also that oil can be produced from shales and rich oil shales now known have reserves about 700 times as great as those known for crude oil reserves. Of course, oil is also being produced from coal. The booklet points out that it is estimated that only 2 per cent of the world's known coal reserves will have been used by the year 2000. Oil can also be produced from tar sands. If there is a problem, it is a political and a price problem. 
Finally, this article points out ironically that the reserves annual consumption ratio for most key minerals in Australia has increased. In other words, we have less ground for concern than we had 20 years ago in regard to most minerals. This complete refutation of what the Minister for Minerals and Energy has been saying about impending doom was authorised by his colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  So I say that the time has come for the House to censure the Minister. Perhaps we in the Liberal" Party should be happy to have a person who is so willing and able to lose votes for the Government. But no Opposition can stand by idly and see the destruction that is being wrought upon a once great industry. 
This Bill reduces the area in which the petroleum product subsidy is paid, and of course it reduces everywhere the amount of the subsidy that is paid. I protest very strongly against the action that the Government has taken. I do not do it because there is any prospect of getting the Government to reverse its decision. We all know that it is aligned against the country and in favour of the city and that this is why it has undertaken this measure and many other measures. So it is quite hopeless to expect that the Government will reverse its decision. 
I want to speak because I represent a country electorate and an area that is being affected. Why do we not hear from members on the Government side who represent areas that are being affected. Some of them do represent vast areas and I instance the honourable members for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  Grey  (Mr Wallis),  Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Where are all these members? The honourable member for Riverina is conveniently absent. We have just been told by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  that the cost of petrol will go up by 6.7c in Leeton. What a great achievement for his electorate stands to the credit of the honourable member for Riverina in his first term of office as a Minister. Before he became a Minster he said that there would be no currency revaluations. We have had 3 revaluations already. This shows what a useless member the people of Riverina have. 
Why do we not hear a bit more about the people who will be affected? There is no doubt that decentralisation generally will go backwards under the present Government. It was quite ludicrous for the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  to say that we have a progressive Government now and to chide the Opposition because we did not, as he said, decentralise as well as possible. All I can say is that we took many actions when we were in government without which undoubtedly there would have been far less decentralisation than there has been. Let me cite quickly a few of the great number of measures the previous Government took. First of all it developed our resources. As a result of this development a great many new towns sprang up. I said in this place that 20 new towns were created in one decade as a result of the development of our resources. I find that I am wrong. There are actually twentyfive. We developed power and minerals. Of course we know the action the Government has taken to reduce support for minerals. The action we took was helping decentralisation. We undertook forestry and water programs. Look at what the Government has done about water. It cancelled work on one dam and tried to cancel work on a second dam. We can imagine that there will be nothing for development of water resources. We provided assistance for the clearing of brigalow scrub and the construction of beef roads. We introduced the petrol price subsidy we are now discussing. Primary industry received more assistance and, as I mentioned, so did mining. We assisted telecommunications and aerodrome development and provided airline subsidies. We increased the Commonwealth aid for roads and so one could go on. I instance education too. 
Everything we did in these fields was to try to increase and improve decentralisation. This measure which is now being reduced in its effect was one of those measures. Of course it is not only a fact that subsidy which maintains a minimum differential between the prices of petroleum products in city and country areas is being reduced; it is also a fact that the Government has increased the excise on petrol quite considerably. We believe that the result on farms of the increased price alone will be an additional cost of S20m. The increase all told on rural areas as a result of the present Budget is estimated to be something like SI 47m as a result of either increased charges or reduced ways in which people can get certain concessions. I protest very strongly against this action. It is ludicrous for the honourable member for Lilley to say that this Government will act on behalf of the primary producer. We have seen how it has acted so far. If it is a progressive Government, God help us if we get a government that is not progressive. 
I want to speak also because I was the Minister, as Minister for National Develop- ment, who was responsible for bringing to Cabinet the framework of the original Bill. I agree with the Leader of the Australian Country Party and pay tribute to the former Leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, because he was the person, I would say, more than anyone else, who pushed this scheme as an aspect of decentralisation. I think it is right that some of the costs and detriments to the country people should be reduced. When we think of it, there are so many areas in which the country man has to pay increased charges. If he buys anything from the city - and many of his goods have to come from there - he pays transport costs. He even pays sales tax on the transport costs as well as sales tax on the goods. There is in operation a system under which the price of steel is the same in every capital city, but if a company, wants to establish a decentralised industry inland it has to pay extra transport costs on its steel. The ludicrous thing, of course, is that the steel that goes to Melbourne from New South Wales passes through my electorate. It is the same price at Wollongong, Sydney and Melbourne but higher at Albury and Wagga, even though it goes through Albury and Wagga on a train on its way to Melbourne. 
The country man has so many areas in which he has to pay and the city man does not, so why not help the country man with some sort of a subsidy? The country man has to put in a great deal of his telephone line. I know that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table opposite me, says that the country man is subsidised, but in order to get the service that the man in the city gets the country man has to make an additional payment that the city man does not. I had to put up my own telephone line. The city man does not have to do this. He gets it put up free. In the country we have to construct our own roads. We have to connect our own electricity or, if we are lucky, the country council will say: 'You lend us $10,000 and we will put electricity through to you'. The country man has to install his own sewerage facilities and other facilities like this. Is is unreasonable to expect country people to get some sort of assistance? I do not believe that it is. The Government should think very carefully before it takes all the actions it is proposing in relation to petrol. Petrol has a vast effect on costs. The Government's actions will mean that certain country industries will become uneconomic and we could well see a flow of people leaving the country and going to the cities. The Government should also remember 1949 and that one of the things which reacted probably more than anything else against the the then Labor Government was the rationing of petrol. Whilst the Government has not yet talked of rationing petrol, the increased cost to a certain extent will ration it. Let me refer to the report of the Coombs task force. Really I would not have thought that the task force could have made such an incredible statement as it has made in the report. This is what it says: 
Moreover, there ls little economic logic in providing a subsidy which encourages people to remain in remote locations such that the greatest encouragement goes to those most remote. 
In other words we should not encourage anyone to stay in the country; let us encourage them all to'go into the city. Honestly, I cannot believe that a person like  Dr Coombs  could produce a statement such as this; in fact, I am perfectly certain that he did not. We all know that the great trouble with the work of the Coombs task force was that it had to produce a vast mass of material in a very short time. The Government just took the Coombs task force report and did not analyse these factors. 
The whole reasoning behind this subsidy was to give assistance to primary industry at a time when it was uneconomic or facing great troubles. Primary industry faced a period of rural recession and droughts. Assistance was provided also to the mining industry. This has enabled the setting up of a great many new towns and new mining industries in the country. A further purpose was to give assistance to secondary industry in remote locations. 
I have not the faintest idea why the Government should try to say that it is wrong to give assistance to places like Broken Hill and Toowoomba. The whole purpose behind this scheme was to make it more economic for industry to decentralise and to go into country centres, especially the more remote country centres. I only hope that this is the last that we will hear of any Government action to reduce the effectiveness of that measure, I have no doubt that many honourable members on the Government side would like to abolish this benefit altogether. I am glad that the Government has resisted that action. But let us hope that in the fullness of time the differential' will be reduced so that once again the subsidy paid will be as much as the former Government provided. 
When we were in Government we did hope that it might be possible to equalise petrol prices in all areas of Australia. Unfortunately, the cost of this proposal appeared to be too large at the time. But I do not say that such action could not be taken eventually. I think that it would be just and reasonable if this was done. I certainly hope that, when those who sit on this side of the House and who have a greater interest in the countryman are returned to office, the new Government will move along that line. 
As the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said in his second reading speech, this Bill is completely identical in all respects with the measure which he introduced on 10 May 1973 and which he tried to railroad through with insufficient time for the Opposition to study and discuss. The Senate, however, would not be railroaded. We have now had time to study the Bill properly and it is apparent that a number of aspects of this Bill are not satisfactory. 
However, there is no reason why this Bill should be hurried through the House. All the minerals so far discovered off-shore are of uneconomic ore grades to warrant production; and one must remember that the cost of mining off-shore is very much greater than the cost of mining on-shore. Gravels, sands and limestones are the only items at present mined or likely to be mined in the foreseeable future in Australia's coastal shelf unless one includes coal, which I believe at one point is mined slightly off-shore from the low water mark. Perhaps in 10 years time it will be possible to mine the manganese nodules at great depth on the abyssal plain, but not yet. 
The only other reason I can see for the Minister wanting to rush through this legislation is so that he can upset the petroleum products legislation, which was freely agreed to between the States and the Commonwealth, and which is working to the great advantage of the nation. But the Minister does not believe in co-operative federalism. He believes in centralism with all power residing in Canberra, even if he cannot administer it. He wants to abrogate the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
The States still believe that the wisest course would have been for a similar arrangement to have been adopted for off-shore minerals as for off-shore petroleum; that is, joint arrangements where the States administered the Act, subject to Commonwealth agreement, and where royalties were shared. The Commonwealth Government has seen fit, however, not to approach the States for discussions, but has acted as if it was the only one with any power, jurisdiction or interest below low water mark. 
I would have preferred to have seen joint arrangements again. But as this is not to be, and to resolve a position which has remained unresolved for 4 years, we have decided not to oppose the passage of the first 2 parts of this Bill. This could resolve, for what it is worth, the abstract question of who has sovereign rights off-shore. But we will oppose, both here and in another place, part III of the Bill, commonly known as the mining code. It seems to be quite ludicrous to contemplate the setting up of a separate federal Mines Department to duplicate the work already being carried out by the States in this area. No one - not even the Minister - has claimed that the States are incompetent. 
The mining code which a Liberal government would want to see employed if we were in office, is one which maintained the federal system. In the areas off-shore from the States the administration should be in the hands of the States. We would not want to set up large and overlapping mines departments to administer each State's off-shore mining, always presuming that the High Court ruled that the Commonwealth did have sovereignty off-shore. In the United States, where the federal Government was ruled by the Supreme Court to have sovereignty off-shore from low water mark, the United States Government returned the powers, jurisdiction and administration of the area up to the 3-mile mark to the States. We should do the same. 
The decisions over the allocation of exploration permits and licences to produce could be joint decisions - as they are in the search for oil - with either government having the right to veto a decision. The Commonwealth, for its part, should insist on adequate work requirements, release of information, and it should see that miners are required to pay suitable and adequate royalties. 
We believe that the States should maintain and administer their laws in the territorial waters over such matters as boating, fishing, swimming, common crimes, etc. It would be quite ludicrous if the laws of the Australian Capital Territory applied from low water mark. Difficulty could be experienced in determining whether an alleged crime was committed abo ve or below low water mark, and hence in whose jurisdiction it was committed. The Commonwealth would of course still be responsible for the exercise of its constitutional powers such as defence, navigation, customs, exports and imports, etc. Royalties could be shared on an acceptable basis, as is the case at present under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts. 
One of the complaints of the States with the presently proposed act is that State boundaries revert to what they were alleged to be at Federation. Presently accepted methods of determining State boundaries as used by the Division of National Mapping show the States to have more territory than they had at Federation - mainly because of the increased closing distance now used to close off internal waters, and because some areas, such as Wollongong, Portland, etc., have been built up since then. This Bill would, quite unjustly, take this increased area from the States. As a government we would propose that the State boundaries as shown on the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act should be the ones used in the mining code of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, and we would make certain that jetties, piers, etc., built by the States since Federation, would remain State property. 
Finally, an area of great concern in this Bill is the wide powers of delegation by the Minister to any public servant and the very wide powers given to the Minister to grant and refuse, to impose conditions and to cancel. I believe that there should be a re-examination of the provisions of the legislation with a view to limiting, where practicable, the areas of discretion and delegated authority. I believe that there should be a requirement for the circumstances surrounding decisions and reasons for decisions to be made public and reported to the Parliament, at least in instances where it is reasonably practicable to do so. 
I believe that there should be, in as many cases as are appropriate, the insertion in the legislation of objective criteria which the Designated Authority should observe in the exercise of his discretionary powers. Provision should be made for legal redress or appeal if it is believed, on an examination of the criteria or the reasons on which the decision was based, that there is arguable ground that there has been a failure to exercise a discretion properly. The legislation should be amended to provide for a regular report to the Parliament on the working and administration of the Act. An advisory authority could be established immediately, with Commonwealth and State representation, to collate information on Australia's present and future needs of all forms of fuel and energy and power, and to act as an appeals board for appeals against decisions of designated authorities. 
One cannot escape the conclusion that the discretions conferred by the mining code give the Minister enormous powers. They are capable of being mis-used and of subjecting companies which have expended vast sums pursuant to authorities, permits or licences to onerous and dictatorial conditions or to cancellation of their authorities, permits or licences. Government objectives and government control could be achieved merely by administrative procedures and without legislation. We intend, therefore, to amend the Bill by deleting Part III in its entirety. I have circulated the amendment which I will move in Committee. 
The Government already knew that the Opposition intended to oppose Part III, and that as a result it would not pass the Senate. So why bring this Bill forward again? The Government already has fulfilled the conditions of the Constitution which would enable the Governor-General to grant a double dissolution, but we all know that the Government is scared to put its position to the test. Perquisites of office are very acceptable after you have been in the cold for 23 years and the only way in which the sticky fingers of the Government can be lossed is if it is dragged screaming from the tart shop. It will make no move itself to test whether it still possesses the confidence of the people. 
I move: 
Omit Part III, comprising clauses 17 to 111. 
Question put - 
That the Part proposed to be omitted  (Mr Fairbairn's  amendment) stand part of the Bill. 
-I desire to ask the Minister for Defence a question. He will recall that some weeks ago I wrote to him asking whether, as rumoured, schools which ran compulsory cadet corps would have their Commonwealth per capita grants withdrawn. I recently received a reply from  Senator Bishop,  the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, which said: 
As you are no doubt aware, it is Government policy that military training in any form be voluntary. Accordingly, schools with cadet units have been advised that official recognition and support will be withdrawn if compulsion, or pressure, is exerted on pupils to participate in cadet activity. 
I trust that this clarifies the matter. 
As that reply has not clarified the matter, can the Minister s~ay now whether per capita grants will be withdrawn from schools with compulsory cadet corps? Is he opposed to military training? If so, how does he intend to fill the mythical battalions and phantom companies that the Chief of the General Staff spoke about? 
I second the motion. I do so with considerable enthusiasm. 1 congratulate the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  on an excellent speech. It is quite obvious that he has done a great deal of research on this subject. I believe that the proposals that he has put forward are in the national interest. 1 only hope that we can treat this matter on an all party basis because T do believe that the proposals put forward by the honourable member contain considerable merit. I think that they could even be broadened. 
Let me say something about oil from coal. There is nothing new in producing oil from coal. The late Harold Holt used to recount a story of an incident when he was a Minister in this House.  Mr Rowley  James, the father of the present honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  was a member of the Opposition. He was very keen on producing oil from coal. One day, he asked a question of Harold Holt on the subject. Harold asked: 'Did you say "coal" or "gold", Rowley?' Rowley said: 'Coal, you fool - c-o-l-e.' 
There is nothing new in this form of obtaining oil. We all know that, in the course of the last war, Germany had vast plants for making oil from coal. The only problem with such production is that of cost. In wartime one can make oil at a cost when it is needed for Messerschmidts and for other uses. That is what Germany did. We know that, more recently, the South Africans have established a plant operating at Johannesburg which makes a considerable amount of oil from coal. There is a major plant in the United States of America. One could not call it a pilot plant because it is even larger than one would expect such a plant to be. Quite obviously, nations are moving to the stage of doing more and more research into ways of getting oil other than by processing crude oil. I understand that some of the oil companies are now moving to buy large coal reserves, particularly in the United States, knowing that sooner or later they will need to turn to this other form of oil supply. 
Australia is particularly fortunate in the quantities of coal which it has. The honourable member for McMillan has mentioned the vast resources of the Latrobe Valley. We know that Australia has very large resources of brown coal and also of black coal. Some of that coal is coking coal; some of it is steaming coal. In my electorate near Oaklands, there is a very large deposit of coal which in quality is halfway between brown coal and the best BTU black coal. Undoubtedly this coal in addition could become the basis of some future industry formed to make oil out of coal. We have been told that we have vast deposits in Australia and only recently there have been 2 big discoveries - the discovery by Utah up in the Peak Downs-Goonyella area of Queensland and a discovery, I am not sure by whom, in South Australia. 
Utah made the discovery in South Australia. I may be wrong in saying that Utah discovered the Queensland deposits but certainly the Utah discovery in South Australia has again delineated large quantities and this has meant a 25 per cent increase in the nations reserves of black coal. 
There is no doubt whatsoever that large quantities exist and are now known. The Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, my successor, announced not so long ago that Australia's known resources were sufficient at the present rate of usage for the next 250 years at least, and that statement was made before any of these new discoveries. So there is no doubt that the availability is there. 
In addition we have large quantities of shale. Oil can be made from shale. Work is proceeding on this in the United States which has large quantities of shale and where is a big demand for oil. Owing to the present problems of a big increase in demand and a reduction in the search for and discovery of oil in the United States that country is turning to shale. We know that during the last war a shale plant was set up at Glen Davis. It continued to operate until the Menzies Government came in and determined that there was no need to continue petrol rationing and that it was much cheaper to import crude oil from overseas than to pay the large price involved in the making of oil from the Glen Davis shale. One of the problems with the Glen Davis shale was its poor quality. Since that time we have delineated a large body of shale in the Julia Creek area. The advantage of that discovery is that the shale is associated with vanadium. I believe that at some time in the future this deposit will be mined because of the possibility of making oil from it and also the possibility of extracting the vanadium at the same time. 
I believe that we should do a considerable amount of research into this problem which has been delineated. I would like to see it go further than the proposal outlined by the honourable member for McMillan. The honourable member talks only of brown coal. 1 think it should bc a general attack on oil from coal and from shale. When I was Minister for National Development the National Coal Research Unit was doing quite a bit of research. I have not heard what has happened to it since, but I do have a vague belief that it has been closed down. If this has happened it is a tragedy. In addition there was some most interesting work being carried out on the use of power from brown coal by pulverising brown coal and using a turbine. This was being done at Fishermen's Bend under a team headed by  Dr Wisdom.  The work showed great promise. The only problem that the team had to overcome was the build-up of some of the ash on the turbine blades, but it was thought that this problem could be overcome. Unfortunately with the discovery of crude oil offshore in Bass Strait that work came to an end because it was felt there was no necessity for it. I think it is a pity that that project was closed down because in the long term it could perhaps be necessary to continue that work. 
The only point on which I disagree with the honourable .member for McMillan is when he said that we have no land based fuel. He was not, quite right on that point. Perhaps it is begging the question a bit but of course we produce fuel at Moonie and also on Barrow Island. There have been discoveries of fuel which I ambled to believe will be developed in the not too distant future in the Cooper Basin. We are*' constantly hoping that drilling will delineate more crude oil on land as well as at sea. So much for the proposal that we should be going inland doing a great deal of research into the production of oil from coal and oil from shale&gt; We know that if we had a suitable energy and fuel policy it would not be necessary to do this immediately. The great pity at the moment is that because of the uncertainty in the industry and the great many impediments that are being put in the way of producers and searchers for oil, the search for oil is not going ahead at the rate at which it should go ahead if we are to become self sufficient and to remain self sufficient. 
I have said time and again in this House that I deprecate very strongly the actions that have been taken by the present Government which have reduced the search for oil. We know that it is tragic. We know that the big multi-national companies, or many of them, are looking elsewhere because they get a better reception. They get a better reception in Indonesia. They get a better reception in the Philippines. If they can spend their money wherever they feel like it they will do so, and they will not come into Australia if they feel that the dice are loaded against them. I have mentioned time and again the actions that the Minister has taken to discontinue the investment allowance. Other actions by the Minister include discontinuance of the exemption of dividends paid from petroleum profits; not allowing companies to write off money that is being spent; not paying subsidies; and the refusal to grant farm-ins where people are anxious to get additional money. Everything that is done is discouraging the search for oil in Australia. The net result, is that today we have only 5 rigs operating off shore and, I believe, only 2 rigs operating on shore out of an availability of 21 rigs. We cannot possibly expect companies to put down the number of wells that are necessary unless encouragement is given. Searchers are taking great risks and if a discovery is made they want to see some profit. Unfortunately that is not the attitude of the Labor Party. The Labor Party thinks the profits are evil. Some of these companies have spent millions of . dollars. I can cite one company which has spent $50m and has not got lc back. Yet the moment they have a success the Government gets onto their back and gets everything it possibly can. 
At the same time as we look at the proposal put by the honourable member for McMillan, let us look at the so-called fuel crisis. The Minister loves to talk about this fuel crisis, but if there is one it is a political crisis which has been caused by the Minister himself. If we really want to get oil there are a number of ways in which this Government can increase the prospects. One way is to get people drilling more and searching more. Therefore the natural result, one would hope, would be discovery of much greater quantities. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association cannot understand why it is that Australia is prepared to pay the Indonesians a lot more than it is prepared to pay Australian companies for crude oil. There is a difference of about $1 or more a barrel between the price paid by Australia to Indonesia or an Arab sheik and what is paid to a decent Australian company producing oil in Australia. This is something which the Association finds pretty hard to understand. Why have the oil search subsidies been cut out? 
If the Government wants to get more oil it should reintroduce the subsidies. The subsidy was brought in at a time when it looked as though oil search in Australia was disappearing. It had a great effect and it can continue to do so. If this Government wants to get oil it can allow the deduction of expenses up to the time of a commercial discovery as was done under the previous Government. This Government should put everything that it can into the Bureau of Mineral Resources to make sure that it does all the geological work that is necessary to delineate the best prospects. It should give concessions to Australians to encourage them to invest their money in the search for oil instead of cutting out those concessions. The Government should allow farm-ins and farm-outs. It should allow the development of discoveries. It should not just say that is going to socialise oil and gas and that it is going to take over at the well head anything that is discovered. It should allow in overseas capital. At the present moment overseas capital is prevented from coming in. Where Australian capital is unavailable or companies are unwilling to invest I can see nothing wrong in allowing it to come in from overseas. 
One could speak at great length about Australia's energy needs. The first thing, as I see it, is to have a proper energy and fuel policy which will encourage the search for crude oil and for gas and to look into the production of oil from coal. But there are many other forms of power. It is time that we looked at power from the sun. What is being done about that? When speaking on the Atomic Energy Bill recently I said that I thought the Atomic Energy Commission would be an excellent body to carry out research into power from the sun. There is tidal power. We know that in the north-west, Australia has available vast amounts of tidal power. Unfortunately, it is not where most of the power is required and there would be problems of transmission and cost of transmission. But at least we should know what is available and what the cost would be to deliver it, particularly in the northwest areas where it is likely to be required for the new developments of iron ore. 
We should move quickly into atomic power and hydro-power but unfortunately when it comes to hydro-power we are inclined to say: What is the use of having a vast source of hydro-power such as we have in the Snowy Mountains if the unions can cut off this power at will?' We now know that the Snowy Mountains Council voted  -  I am fairly reliably informed that it was a 5 to 2 vote - in favour of continuing to operate the Snowy scheme in the way that it was being operated under normal procedures and that something intervened after the Council had voted in that way. I might say that that Council has on it  Mr Reddick,  who is the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission and  Mr Tisdale,  the  Chairman  of the Victorian State rivers and Water Supply Commission. These people knew what the situation was. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The action which we are taking today is one of the most severe actions which an Opposition can take in a parliament. We have brought forward a motion of censure of a Minister for misleading the Parliament. In these circumstances, in any normal parliament, one would expect the Minister to be supported by the Prime Minister and by many of his Ministers. But where are they? The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is not even in the House. At one stage the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is under attack, and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who has just completed his speech, were the only Ministers in the House. I see that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has recently entered the chamber. All that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has had to support him is this poor, pathetic member for Riverina, the Minister for Immigration. Let me say why I believe that he is pathetic. He said that recently he had attempted to warn all the irrigators of the position. Let me read what he told them, because he told them nothing. To begin with, we know that this Minister wastes an incredible amount of money sending telegrams. Possibly he would be equalled by the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  who recently sent a 600-word telegram to each of the 93 members of Caucus, but I think the Minister for Immigration is still in the lead. Let me read this explanation of everything that was given by the Minister to his electors and the irrigators in the Murrumbidgee. 
If I were the Minister I would not mention the Murray. At the byelection held last Saturday in that area the Australian Labor Party vote dropped from 50 per cent to 25 per cent, so I would keep a little quiet about the Murray if I were the Minister. The Minister for Immigration sent an explanation in these terms: 
Great pressure is being brought to bear on the Minister for Minerals and Energy, the  Hon.  Rex Connor, MHR, to release more water from the Snowy for power purposes. Eucumbene Dam is already half empty and, with light snowfalls, unlikely to refill. 
Anyone who knows anything about Eucumbene knows that it will never fill, that it is designed so that it will not fill and that if it overflows money will be lost. The Minister continued: 
Blowering Dam already spilling. Threat to further flooding in Murray Valley and flood threat in 
Murrumbidgee Valley if rate of release maintained. Power authorities have used 70 per cent of year's water allocation in 4J months. Sustained rate of release will cause further flood threat and endanger irrigation supplies. Suggest your views on releases be made known to Minister urgently. 
This is the way in which he completely misled his electors and the irrigators. He knows that there is no danger to irrigation supplies at present. Everyone knows this. Blowering Dam is full, with 1.3 million acre feet of water. Lake Eucumbene, which has 2 million acre feet, is shared two-thirds by New South Wales and one-third by Victoria. Burrinjuck, which is almost full, holds 830,000 acre feet when it is full, and it is only about 11 feet from the top level now. There, is something like 3 million acre feet of water sitting above the Murrumbidgee. That is certainly enough to irrigate for the next 2 years, possibly more. But the Minister is trying to say that irrigation supplies could be endangered. 
Let me leave this Minister and come back to the Minister who is under attack for misrepresentation. That is why he is under attack. lt is no good the Minister saying: 'What I did was right, and I believe that it was right'. This is not the case at all. We are saying that he misrepresented to the House the action which he had taken. I believe that he no longer has the confidence of this House and is no longer fitted to hold the position of Minister of the Crown in Her Majesty's Australian Government. He has taken actions to the grave detriment of our nation and he has misled the House and the public, as I shall proceed to show. 
On Wednesday, 26 September, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  proposed that a matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely, the serious situation caused by the New South Wales power strike. During the debate the honourable member for Wannon charged the Minister for Minerals and Energy with having exacerbated the effects of the power strike by ordering - perhaps 'directing' is a better word - the Snowy Mountains Council to operate in accordance with the 35-Hour Week Committee's direction. The Minister was all smiles when he stood up to reply to the charge. I should say as an aside that some sections of the mining industry think that when the Minister smiles it only makes him look a little more like a crocodile. The Minister said that there was a perfectly simple answer. He said that the Blowering Dam was overflowing, that each day water was spilling uselessly over its walls at a fate which would fully irrigate 44,000 acres of land, that Eucumbene was half empty and that we have to safeguard our food needs. 
There was an incredulous gasp of surprise from members of the Opposition. Never for one moment had the Minister mentioned the 35-Hour Week Committee's decision, which we all knew was the reason why the Minister directed the Snowy power cuts. Who did he think he was fooling? Surely the Minister could not have been naive enough or stupid enough to believe that the reasons for his actions were not already fully known and understood by the New South Wales Government and by the power and water authorities. Did he for one moment imagine that the Opposition would be so gullible as to say: 'How convenient it was for the Minister that he had to order the Snowy Mountains Council to reduce power production because responsible management of water demanded this action be taken'? It is ludicrous to think that that was the situation at the identical time when the demands of the 35-hour Week Committee were being thrust upon the Council. Let us look for a moment at the excuses of the Minister to see how shallow and groundless they were. Let us take his first assertion. The Minister said: 
At the present time Lake Eucumbene is SO per cent empty. . . . It is to be hoped that unusually high rainfall will curtail the deficiency and safeguard our food needs. . . . Each day water is spilling uselessly over the Blowering's walls. 
Let me comment on that. First of all, as I said, Eucumbene was designed never to fill and it has never filled since it was built. It was designed to last through the long dry periods recorded in the earlier rainfall records of the district. The heaviest release of water from Eucumbene occurs between May and September. At present the level of Lake Eucumbene is 54 per cent of its total active storage. There is more water in it today than there was on 30 September in any year ,in which I was Minister for National Development, namely, from 1964 to 1969. As a percentage of active storage, Lake Eucumbene held at the end of September of each year since 1963 the following amounts: 1963, 42 per cent; 1964, 45 per cent; 1965, 38 per cent; 1966, 37 per cent; 1967, 30 per cent; 1968, 20 per cent - a decline due mainly to drought; and 1969. 52 per cent. In 1970 it rose to 68 per cent because water had been gained from other sources. In 1971 it was 60 per cent and in 1972 it was 69 per cent. Today it is 54 per cent. Obviously the availability of irrigation water - or the lack of it - had absolutely nothing to do with the Minister's decision to restrict Snowy power output. 
As I have said previously, the Blowering Dam is now full. It holds over 1.3 million acre feet. Burrinjuck holds 840,000 acre feet when full. It is very close to being full now. It could also be used for irrigation as well as power. A total of something like 3 million acre feet of water, if the New South Wales share of Eucumbene is taken into account, is available. Of course, the Coombs Task Force, in a report which has only recently been presented - I refer to page 207 of the report - has stated that large volumes of water presently being stored in the Blowering Dam are unused. The New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission has said that it will have need for some of the uncommitted water in the Blowering earlier than was originally anticipated. Nevertheless there is no doubt that the Blowering holds a good deal more water than will be required for irrigation this summer. 
I turn to the Minister's assertion that at an overflow rate of 3,200 cusecs flooding would occur at the poplar plantations section of the Tumut River. Certainly, flooding has been a problem. But we are told that there have been no floods this year. Some years ago, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority bought up much of the land that flooded and planted it with poplars. Water does not affect the poplars. So everything that the Minister has said to try to mislead and misrepresent the case has been proved to be completely incorrect. I return to the nub of the matter. For some time the Electrical Trades Union members employed by the Electricity Commission of New South Wales have been limiting power output to attempt to force on the New South Wales Government their demands for a 35-hour week. The State Industrial Commission rejected the workers' claim for a 35- hour week. It was asked to re-examine its decision. It did so and the second time it reported that there were no grounds for reducing the hours worked in the industry. Even the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said in regard to the Commonwealth Public Service that there are no grounds for a 35-hour working week. 
The Industrial Commission also rejected the phasing in of a shorter working week. No doubt, it took this action in view of the fact that the Electricity Commission of New South Wales has estimated that it would need another 682 workers if the 35-hour week were introduced. This would increase the shortage of skilled tradesmen in industry. But this decision of the Industrial Commission did not suit the militant left-wing workers. They decided not to abide by arbitration but to continue to restrict power so as to cause the maximum inconvenience to the public. No one is really sure whether the members of the Electrical Trades Union, in seeking a 35-hour week, are seeking more leisure, more overtime pay or just to disrupt the community and undermine our industrial production. The strike is in the hands of strong left wing control, including  Mr R.  Ross and  Mr Jack  Syme- 
He is a member of the Aarons - Carmichael Communist Party of Australia. He is the secretary- 
It would be nothing unusual for the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to be associated with a member of that Party. This man is the secretary of the Electricity Commission Combined Union Delegates Organisation. Of course, the restrictions were not hurting people sufficiently as they were not severe enough. So deliberate acts of sabotage were planned. Munmorah power station, for example, the second-largest in New South Wales had to shut down completely. The word 'sabotage' has an interesting derivation. It comes from the French word sabot' - a shoe or a clog which the French workers threw into machinery to stop the works. It makes one wonder whether we are facing another revolution here. 
Still the power situation in New South Wales was not sufficiently bad to bring about the severe blackouts which the Electrical Trades Union needed. One reason was that the Snowy was feeding between 1,600 and 1,900 megawatts daily into the New South Wales power system. Something had to be done to stop this. The way was soon found, with the active co-operation of a compliant Minister. Despite the decision of the Snowy Mountains Council to continue normal power production, the Minister, using his power under section 16.i.6 of the Act, directed that the works be operated in a manner that did not run counter to the intentions of the 35- Hour Week Commitee. At last the 
Electricity Commission Combined Union Delegates Organisation was able to achieve what it had set out to do. Blackouts and restrictions became the order of the day. It mattered little that in the process a man in hospital died when power was cut off from his ward, that children received third-degree burns when candles ignited their cots or that a man with a heart attack died because the doctor who was called to help him could not find a light. What about the many hundreds of thousands of housewives and ordinary citizens who have been inconvenienced? The man directly responsible for this situation was a Federal Minister who had intervened in an industrial dispute on the side of the communists and the leftwingers despite the statement of the Prime Minister: 'This is not a matter where we can do anything as the employer. We have no right to intervene'. Even the Leader of the New South Wales Labor Party,  Mr Hills,  called on the men to resume work. King Canute tried to hold back the waters but failed. King Kong has succeeded where King Canute failed. This brings me to the point that the Minister has demeaned himself as a Minister of the Crown. He has given false information to the House. He is no longer a fit and proper person. It will startle everyone if this Minister is left where he is. Everyone will ask: 'Why? Does he have something on the Prime Minister?' When the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, was replaced, why was not the Minister for Minerals and Energy replaced? I support the motion. 
The Minister of whom I am seeking to ask a question, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, as usual is not here. 
 In the absence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I see that the Minister has now entered the chamber so I direct the question to him. Is it a fact that in order to bring the Woodside-Burmah gas fields to the position of being able to sell liquefied natural gas overseas, the following approximate costs would have to be incurred: Firstly, production and separation platforms, approximately SI, 000m; secondly, a pipeline of 80 miles to bring the gas on shore, between SI 00m and SI 50m; thirdly, liquefied natural gas plant, S250m; fourthly, 10 tankers at SI 00m each, $ 1,000m; and finally, if required, a pipeline to Perth, $200m. This would make a total of S2,550m, to which would need to be added the operating expenses and the cost of the gas. Did Cabinet agree to the provision of this sum before the Minister told WoodsideBurmah of the Government's intention to take the product at well-head? Can the Minister be more specific than the Minister for Overseas Trade who, when asked on television if it was in fact a Cabinet decision said: T think there is a Cabinet decision about the general line'? 
The statement by the Minister for Minerals and Energy (Mr Connor) is quite a remarkable document. In fact one could say it is incredible. It consists of threats, vague assertions and abuse. It is not backed up in any way. It reasserts assertions which have already been proved false by the mining industry and all that it will do is make the uncertainties even greater uncertainties and therefore disturb even more industry which has contributed well to the Australian nation and which would continue to do so if only the Minister would get off its back, provide stable Government policy and try to encourage these people to search more. He has rushed in at short notice. No one knows what for. My theory is that this was some material he had ready, thinking we would move a motion of no confidence in him, and when we did not he said: 'Oh, well, I will give it to the Parliament anyway.' One of the incredible things about this statement is that here we have 2 parties which are absolutely poles apart in their thinking. At the present moment the Minister knows very well that legal advice has been given that the pipelines legislation under which he is proposing to operate is invalid. He has received information from  Sir William  Pettingel to this effect, and yet he goes ahead when he knows quite well that he cannot go ahead until such time as the case against the Pipelines Authority Act comes to the High Court. 
The Minister has great legal knowledge. I understand that he had a long practice in law and no doubt he would know what the situation is. But if the Act is held to be invalid then of course it must be tried out. As I say, these 2 parties are poles apart. The Opposition believes in private enterprise under proper supervision. This is, of course, the system under which virtually every democracy in the world has undertaken the search for oil and has produced it once it has been discovered. We believe in private enterprise under proper supervision in which the Government has a major responsibility to set the conditions and to receive a great percentage of the return. Do not let us forget that more than 50 per cent of the profits returned from this goes to government. We believe a fair share should go to government. What happens at present is a company tax of 47) per cent on any profits goes to government. Government also gains from royalties which are set according to world standards, from a withholding tax of 15 per cent, from payroll tax and from a tax on dividends when they are distributed. The Government gets a great take, but we believe that it is private enterprise basically which should undertake this work and not socialism or nationalism. 
The Opposition believes also in co-operation with the States. It is interesting to note that the Minister never at any stage mentioned whether he would co-operate with or seek advice from his State colleagues. Yet a lot of the work that has to be done in respect of this project must be done by the States and of course, must be done under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act in which the State Minister is the designated authority. But the Australian Labor Party believes in nationalisation. It believes in taking over at the wellhead or perhaps even before, if it starts to go into the search for oil itself. Where are the cost-benefit analyses for this? The Opposition would have liked to have had time to study this most illuminating document. We would have liked to have had time to go into it deeply but we know quite well that the debate, if adjourned, would never be brought on again and therefore we have to debate it straight away. On the other hand the Minister has had plenty of time to prepare his statement 
Yes, and we are given just a few short minutes in which to prepare our reply. Let me refer to some of the points involved. 
Yes, it looks like it. First, the Minister says that the pipeline authority must secure control of and retain reserves of petroleum adequate to meet the long-term needs of the Australian people. But the Government can do this now. What is new in this petroleum authority doing what the Government can do now? Not one barrel of oil, no gas or anything can leave Australia without the authority of the Minister. That situation applies now. So what is so different in this new system that the Minister seeks to implement? The Minister referred to the Woodside-Burmah consortium as still holding exploration permits and said that they are very large. The extraordinary thing is that he says it is not doing enough and yet he is preventing it from doing any more. Whenever the company has tried to get farmouts and by this arrangement to get more drilling done so as to see that that area is covered, he refuses the permit. We know quite well that Mount Isa Mines and other bodies like that have applied for these farm.outs and the Minister sits there smugly, smirking, and refuses to give them anything and says that it must be handed back to the Australian Government. What happens if it is handed back to the Australian Government? The Australian Government cannot do anything with it so it has to hand it out to another company. 
The Government gets the money now and gets a very large percentage - well over 50 per cent of profits. If, of course, what the Minister intends is that everyone in Australia should cease to look for oil except the Government - this is the way that he is heading because no one would want to go on under the conditions he is setting - he has to realise that the Government must provide vast sums. The Minister said that Woodside-Burmah is unable to fully explore the area and it should surrender the area to the national Government but, as I have already pointed out, it is not the national Government that will allocate this area because this position is covered by legislation passed by this Parliament and by every other Parliament in Australia - the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. That is a joint arrangement between Commonwealth and State. So it is not the national Government which makes this allocation. 
The Minister has done nothing to bring that on and does not intend to because if the present Bill is passed it will not affect petroleum legislation. Here we have the extraordinary situation where he is preventing people from searching for oil and at the same time saying that they are not doing enough. He goes on to say that under section 39 of the Pipeline Authority Act we have broken new constitutional ground. My word, they certainly have. The Australian Gas Light Company intends to challenge this Pipeline Authority Act but the Minister said tonight that the Government intended to proceed with the building of the pipeline. He said that litigation could seriously delay construction of the pipeline and that the Government is going to press ahead irrespective of whether we have the legal authority or not. He said with that great knowledge of his that the High Court will find in favour of the Australian Government. He then went on to say: 
For these reasons, it is vital that full acquisition of natural gas and associated liquids be made by the Australian Government. 
This is blatant nationalisation or socialism, call it what you like. He continued: 
We plan a major refinery at Dampier. 
Is this to be built by the Government? How does the Minister know that he has the authority to do it? He said nothing about getting in touch with Tonkin and the State Government who are in charge of Dampier. Is he intending just to acquire and, if so, under what section will he acquire land for this I take it, Commonwealth-owned refinery at Dampier? He went on to say: 
There are wholly-owned Australian firms who have the necessary technology and ability to establish such a refinery. 
I hope they have and that under private enterprise they will do so. However, the Minister's colleague in South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  says that no Australian consortium has the expertise, technology and marketing knowledge to build the $300m petro-chemical complex at Redcliffs. 
Here we find a State Premier disagreeing with what the Minister for Minerals and Energy says. The Premier says that these companies have not the expertise and it is unlikely that they would be able to get in their bids in time. The Minister says that there are plenty of Australian companies which could do it. 
He mentions again in his statement this failure by the Woodside-Burmah consortium to disclose discoveries. It is an extraordinary thing how Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L. seems to get the bucket all the dme. Woodside-Burmah is only one of a number of companies in the consortium. There is the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd, BP Australia Ltd, and California Asiatic Oil Co. Yet everything is thrown at Woodside-Burmah which has Australian management and Australian equity. I thought we had disposed of this matter a long time ago.  Mr Donaldson  said to  Mr May,  the State Minister for Mines, in the presence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy: 'Is there anything you want that you have not got?'  Mr May  said: 'No, I have received everything I have asked for'. Now the Minister throws up this old shibboleth again. For goodness sake if there is anything he wants from these companies he should be man enough to tell them and they will provide it. But he should not sit here sniping and trying to undermine their confidence as he has already succeeded in doing. He said: 'We have experienced the greatest difficulty in obtaining this information'. What utter rot and the Minister knows it is. He proceeds then to talk about allegedly huge costs. It is interesting that the Minister tabled a document yesterday in the House which completely confirmed the figures which I brought forward. He said that I believed in fairy tales, yet the documents he tabled showed that to bring one well into production, including the pipeline and a production platform - 
Of course. I said 'one well'. I listened to the Minister in silence and I hope he will listen to me in silence. I gave the figures for the development of 5 wells. The Minister said that it will cost $2 10m for one well. I said that it would cost $ 1,000m for 5 wells. I think that, if anything, I was perhaps a little under the estimate. That cost is only to bring the production on shore. One then must have the liquefied natural gas plant at a cost of $250m. Ten tankers will be required. The Minister says that we can hire those tankers. Of course we can do that if we are prepared to pay the cost of hiring them. The charge for those tankers would be another $ 1,000m. There would be the further cost of the pipeline to Perth, if necessary. There is no doubt whatsoever that approximately $2,500m will be required to develop these 5 fields which have been discovered. Is the Minister suggesting that the Government is to do all this? 
Well, I have asked the Minister before to show where it is fantasy and he cannot do so because he knows quite well that it is- 
 As I have said already, if they come here we will pay the cost of transporting this fuel. 
 The Minister repeats another one of these complete inaccuracies - it has already been shown up - about the proven and probable recoverable reserves of the Gidgealpa basin not fully meeting the commitment under the contract between the Australian Gaslight Co. and the Gidgealpa organisation. Again, this is utter rot. We know perfectly well that the well known Texas firm of Degolyer and MacNaughton, probably the most outstanding people in the world in this field, has given a certificate to the Australian Gaslight Co. that there are in the Cooper Basin dedicated to Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle sufficient gas reserves for 30 years. Yet, the Minister says that there are reserves for 10 years to 12 years only. We know that, after that certificate was given by this most reliable company, further discoveries have been made, particularly by the Western Mining Company in the south-west corner of Queensland. So, more gas has been discovered since that time when there were dedicated reserves for 30 years to Sydney. The Minister goes on to say: 
Without export controls this company planned within this period of 21 years to rip out and rape the natural gas. 
What an incredible statement. The Minister apparently believes that although he has these export controls now, he is incapable of administering them so as to prevent what he calls ripping and raping. He knows, as I have said again and again, that not one barrel of oil can be exported from Australia without the authority of the responsible Minister. Yet, he says that they will be ripping and raping it. What utter nonsense! He states further: 
We will continue the pipeline to Palm Valley to provide a back-up for the short fall of supplies at Gidgealpa. 
We know that these are not shortfalls at all. Why does the Minister not show us any feasibility study as to what the costs and benefits will be, when it will be necessary to produce this and what size the pipeline will be. (Extension off time granted.) I thank the House. I will not detain it very much longer. It is interesting to go through some of the points made in this statement because it is the most incredible statement I have ever seen in my 24 years in this House. The Minister also stated: 
My recent conference with Burmah Oil Co. (UK) Limited was to ensure that it confined itself to exploration and did not prejudice itself by financial commitments associated with export. 
In other words, the Minister says to the company: 'You go ahead and find it for us and we will take it from you as soon as you find it.' That is nationalisation. What is the Government to pay for this resource when there will be one bidder only. We have heard the Minister say already that the price' for Bass Strait oil was too high and that the price somewhere else was too high. We know quite well that he will be the only bidder. He will be the only person who can take this resource. Therefore, he will pay any price which he chooses to set. The company has to accept that and like it. 
The Minister says that he will work in the closest collaboration with his colleagues, the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Again, as I say, he mentions nothing about the State Ministers. A great deal of the back-up work has to be undertaken by the States. A great deal of the expertise and knowledge of the technology in this field resides with the State departments, and the licences and permits are allotted by the appropriate State Ministers. 
Honourable members know that the action of allocating licences and permits must be undertaken by the designated authority who is the Minister for Mines in the relevant State, in collaboration with the Federal Minister. Yet the Minister for Minerals and Energy says nothing about this. He then goes on to say that the Australian average in off-shore drilling has been good. The figure relating to off-shore wells, of course, has been good; we have been fortunate. But the figure relating to exploration for oil and gas in Australia has been that one well in 40 has been a commercial proposition. If we take an average cost of $2m per well and we attain the Australian average this means that for every $80m expended we get one commercial well. Of course, we know that private enterprise is more skilled in this than public enterprise is likely to be and that, therefore, public enterprise would not achieve this figure; the expenditure of S80m might not result in one commercial well. We believe that if governments have that amount of the taxpayers money to spend they should spend the money not on this risk exploration but on housing, schools, roads and hospitals - the sorts of things which governments have to provide - and leave private enterprise, under suitable conditions, to search for oil and gas. 
Finally the Minister for Minerals and Energy states: 
Almost every major industrial nation faces the stringent shortage of oil supply. Australia will have an abundance, and a dominant economic position In the future industrial world. ls the Minister going to adopt a dog in the manger attitude? Is he going to say: 'We are the haves and we are not going to let the have nots have anything at all'? Is he going to set up a cartel as he tried to do and as his Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  tried to float when he was overseas in Mexico, though he did not get very far with it?. Is he going to seek to restrict supplies? We in the Liberal Party believe, of course, that we must know what our reserves are and that we must have adequate reserves for the foreseeable future. However, once those reserves are provided for, we believe we have a duty to sell overseas over and above our requirements which, of course, also brings us enormous benefits by the gains which come to our exchange as a result of this. 
I conclude by saying that the Liberal Party believes that co-operation between private enterprise and government is the only way to ensure the orderly and progressive development of Australia's natural resources and energy. Since coming into office the Labor Government has actively attacked the petroleum and mineral exploration industry in Australia. This attack on free enterprise has been carried out under a plan which has been systematically devised for the purpose of eliminating individual Australian companies. For example, firstly the principal incentive for risk capital, namely the right to deduct capital contributions for tax purposes, was removed. Then, of course, there was the 25 per cent freeze on anyone bringing funds in from overseas. We are not against overseas funds. We believe that there should be adequate Australian equity and management. But if, over and above that, further capital is required we believe there is no reason why it should not come in under suitable terms and conditions. Petroleum and mineral exploration companies now realise that they are the first on the list for nationalisation by the Labor Government. So when we come back to office again, which I hope will be very shortly, we will re-establish the close relationship and co-operation between governments and industry which is paramount in our policy and we will ensure that taxpayers money will not be used on exploration which involves high costs and a major amount of funds. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on 2 occasions. Firstly, the Minister claimed that I was wrong when I said that the cost of bringing into production the oil and gas fields discovered on the northwest shelf by Woodside-Burmah was far greater than the $2 10m which he quoted. He laid on the table documents which purported to show that the cost of bringing the natural gas to shore from the north-west shelf fields would be between $2 10m and $2 12m. On examination, this document proved to be the estimate for developing only one of the 5 fields and, therefore, my estimate of $ 1,000m for the 5 fields was probably an underestimation. 
Secondly, the Minister said that I had said that all existing contracts for uranium export were written in Australian dollars. I did not say this. What I said was - and I quote from my Press statement:   the Minister knows that the EZ-Peko contracts are expressed in $A. The lowest of these contracts are equivalent today to US$8.10, while the highest goes up to US$10.83. 
This makes nonsense of the Minister's claim last week that uranium contracts which were entered into prior to the recent elections had unsatisfactory prices, the best of which was US$7.25. Unfortunately,  Mr Speaker,  my statement was incorrectly reproduced in the 'Australian' newspaper. 
The Opposition today has taken the strongest action that an Opposition can take in a parliamentary democracy. It has moved that the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House and the Opposition has spelt out the ways in which it believes it has mismanaged the nation. The Government has sought, of course, not to answer those charges but to try to draw a red herring across the trail by referring to what the Opposition is alleged to have done in the past and what is alleged it will do in the future. However it is the Government that is under attack for its sins of omission and commission. It is the Government which has lost the confidence and support of the public for its actions. Disaster follows disaster for the Government in successive byelections and successive gallup polls. 
No one believed on 2 December that the incoming Labor Government would fall apart at the seams so quickly. No one believed, not even I, that it would have been quite as inept and as bad as it has turned out to be. For this reason the Opposition has listed the major points on which the Government has failed. Any person who is not a dyed-in-the-wool Labor supporter would have to agree with these points. Let me refresh the minds of honourable members by restating them. The Opposition has moved that the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of its mismanagement of the nation and, in particular, its failure to exercise proper economic management. No one would disagree with this. What a failure the Government has been. Inflation is more than 3 times higher than it was when the Government came into office a matter of only 9 or 10 months ago. Interest rates are at an all time high and yet the Government is meant to be a party of low interest. The Opposition, in its motion, mentions the Government's disastrous handling of the mining industry. I shall return to this matter later. It mentions also the Government's neglect of national security and defence. It has been recalled that the Labor Party has broken its promise to continue to spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. We have had falling recruiting; there are fewer people in the Services; resignations have been received, particularly from senior officers who can ill be lost; projects have been cancelled, the DDL has been cancelled, the Cockburn Sound project has been cancelled, the Neptune replacement cancelled. Where are the fighters which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  went overseas to look at but which he knew beforehand he would not buy. No new tanks will be bought. Even such petty little things as the sacking of local bands has occurred. There is to be no cadet corps. Troops have been withdrawn from Singapore and morale in the Services is at an all time low. 
In its motion the Opposition also refers to the Government's failure to exercise influence in the management of industrial stability. We have heard already from my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who spoke earlier and who said that industrial unrest in this country has risen by 80 per cent in one year. The Government disregards the proper role of the States. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning was trying very hard to justify the fact that he occasionally sees the Premiers but we know that the Government has ridden roughshod over many of the States on many occasions. The Government does not believe in State governments. It believes in a federal system with all power in the Federal Government. We have seen this attitude in the field of national development. The Government has overridden the States in education. It is bypassing the States by making loans to local government. It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister said how great conditions were between him and the State governments, especially when we hear of the Redcliffs affair, to which I shall refer later, but in respect of which the Labor Party leader of the Government in South Australia said that the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was inaccurate and misleading. 
The Opposition also criticises the Government for its management of the national Parliament - not only its management but also the fact that it is misleading the national Parliament. I hope that before I sit down I will be able to show some of the areas in which the Government has deliberately misled the national Parliament. Let me start by quoting an answer by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  to a question asked of him by my colleague the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  before the Minister went overseas. Incidentally, I believe that we are lucky to have the Minister with us for a few days as he is going overseas again. The Minister said: 
When this Government came to power some of the first things I called for were the progressive reports on the Federal evaluation of the Burdekin proposals. I got nothing. 
Any person would think that this meant that the Federal Government had done nothing in this area. Surely the Minister must have been aware that between 1966 and 1971 hydraulic model studies of the Burdekin River at Burdekin Falls were carried out by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and later the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to determine a river rating curve for high flows. I know that he is also aware, because he lives in the area, that between August 1967 and April 1969 there was an investigation by the SMA of 2 sites on the Broken River, the tributary of the Burdekin River. Those sites are located at Urannah and at the irrigation diversion site. Investigations for these sites were carried on to the stage of the completion of a preliminary design. 
The Minister also would know that between August 1969 and January 1972 there was a reconnaissance of 60 miles of the upper Burdekin River by the SMA and later the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to narrow down available dam sites to 2, at Greenvale and Lake Lucy. He knows also - I am certain he does, but I do not know why he has ignored it - that between April 1972 and December 1972 a preliminary investigation by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation was carried out of one dam site on the Haughton River, which flows into the sea south of Townsville in the vicinity of the Burdekin delta. The Minister also knows that between February 1973 and August 1973, as a result of a decision by the previous Government and the Queensland Government, a reconnaissance by the SMEC was undertaken of 60 miles of the central Burdekin River to narrow the available dam sites down to 2 or 3, located possibly at Hells Gates, Mount Fullstop and Mount Foxton and that this work is still in progress. The Minister also knows that as a result of a decision by the previous Government and the Queensland Government between February 1973 and October 1973 a preliminary investigation by the SMEC has been carried out of one dam site on the lower Burdekin. The work on this site will be carried to the stage of completion of the preliminary design. 
If those are the facts, and I am sure they are, why did the Minister answer one of the two questions he asked himself - namely: What did the previous Government do about the development of the Burdekin River for the last 23 years? - by saying 'precisely nothing'? That was a complete and deliberate attempt to mislead the House. Ministers of the Crown have a duty to ensure the highest degree of correctness and integrity in their replies. If they find that they have made a wrong reply it is up to them immediately to inform the House and to ensure that it is corrected. But will we see a correction of that statement? Not at all. Because it has gone over, the Minister thinks: Good. I hope they did not hear the explanation of it'. 
I come now to the greatest disaster of all, that is, the area of minerals and energy. I was going to say that scarcely a week has gone by without there being some new example of the ineptitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  but I will have to reduce the period because a week is too long. I will have to say that every day his ineptitude comes forward. Let me give a few examples of how he is reeling from disaster to disaster like a punch drunk boxer. Firstly, there is the Don Dunstan affair and the Redcliffs petrochemical project. There is the uranium leases affair involving Queensland Mines and EZPeko. There is the national mapping affair. We have been told that the Government is not going to continue the system of letting tenders, which has worked very well for a long time past. It will have to take on another 75 cartographers - if it can find them - to do this work of national mapping. We have been told by a former member of Parliament that foreign control is increasing and that it is due mainly to the present Minister. We have the  Sir William  Pettingell affair in which  Sir William  Pettingell was called impertinent and in relation to which the Minister has said that a pipeline to Sydney will be completed by January 1976 but the people who are building the pipeline - East Aust. Pipeline Corporation - say it will be completed 6 months earlier. Who is correct? If there is to be that difference it will cost an extra $6m. 
Not a day goes past without some sort of problem. Look at the Redcliffs project. Here is a case where the State Government, after discussion with the Federal Government, was finalising a project in which 30 per cent Australian equity was to be allowed. We are now told by  Mr Dunstan  that the project is in jeopardy.  Mr Dunstan  himself said that Australian firms did not have the necessary technology and that this $300m project will be in jeopardy unless the Minister for Minerals and Energy agrees to it. For it to proceed the Minister has to agree to it because it is dependent on exports and on capital imports, which he can block. 
But here we see an incredible situation. I have been a member of this House for 24 years. I see an honourable member on the Labor side of the chamber look up. He came in at the same time as I did. Neither of us have ever seen a similar occasion on which a Federal. Minister had a motion of no confidence passed in him by a State Government. Every member of the Australian Labor Party in the South Australian Government voted in favour of that motion. It states: 
That this House express deep concern at the actions of the Commonwealth Minister for Minerals and Energy in relation to the proposed Redcliffs petrochemical department, and urge the Government to take all possible steps to resolve the present threat to its establishment. 
This was a motion of no confidence carried by  Mr Dunstan  and every member of the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. The Minister for Minerals and Energy went on to say that South Australia's gas reserves were doubtful, that they would not cover demand for more than 12 or 14 years.  Mr Dunstan's  comment on that statement was that it was both inaccurate and misleading. Again, what a statement be made by a responsible Labor leader and one of the confidants of the Prime Minister. We know that that statement of the Minister for Minerals and Energy was completely inaccurate. I have already said in the House that a firm from Texas certified that there is sufficient gas in the Cooper Basin to supply Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong for 30 years. The firm issued a certificate to this effect. Yet the Minister came in here with these completely inaccurate and misleading statements. 
One wonders whether he can ever get a statement correct. We are fast coming to realise that any similarity between statements that the Minister makes and the true facts is completely coincidental. In fact what he should do is get the Bureau of Mineral Resources to write his statements for him and read them making certain that he does not change them. This is a case of intervention on the part of the Minister ostensibly to help to increase Australian equity. It reads oddly in the face of a recent statement by an ex-member of Parliament, who one cannot claim to be any supporter of ours, that foreign control is increasing. I refer to a statement by  Mr Edward  St John,  Chairman  of the Association for Retention of Australian Ownership. He told the Association's conference that the Minister for Minerals and Energy was partly to blame for this state of affairs, bis manner had been unduly abrasive, his intentions had not been made clear and that he had created unnecessary confusion and uncertainty. 
What has brought this about? Foreign control is increasing because of the actions of this Government. First of all, the abolition of incentives to encourage investors was a cause. We believe in the small Australian industry and in encouraging people to get a stake in their country. This system has been abolished. There has been a freeze on the import of capital. So an Australian company cannot borrow money overseas and bring it in without having to freeze 25 per cent of it. The oil search subsidy has been abolished. Off-shore this was availale to Australians only and to the extent that there was Australian equity Australians got a share and the multi-nationals which we are alleged to support did not. The small Australian industry feels the effect of such actions first. How can such companies possibly float new shares? 
There is not enough time to go into all the depths of this Government's actions in the minerals and energy field. But I come to the uranium leases. In order to justify his refusal to renew leases or to grant tides to Australian companies - Queensland Mines and EZ-Peko - the Minister used 3 excuses. Firstly, he said that the areas were Aboriginal reserves and therefore he could not grant leases although he would like to. Secondly, he said that the price for the uranium was not high enough now and that we should wait until it gets higher, which surely will happen later according to him. Thirdly, we will only export enriched uranium which is more valuable. I state firstly that EZ-Peko's find at Ranger is not on a reserve so the Government could do anything it likes in renewing those leases. The Government likes to stress the fact that it is speedy in making decisions. Yet it has known for 10 months that these leases were expiring and has done absolutely nothing about them. There are very few Aborigines on these reserves. One of the deposits at Narbarlek is the richest known deposit in the world for quality and grade of its ore. Is the Government suggesting that these deposits on which millions of dollars of investors money has been spent should not be developed for the benefit of the nation? What is the reason for this delay. The Minister said that the price is not high enough. We lost the chance to participate in contracts, as everyone knows, worth some $600m which are just closing with the Japanese. We undoubtedly would have got a share in those contracts had it not been for the direction of the Minister to the company concerned to withdraw its offer. Now this opportunity has gone for ever. To justify his refusal the Minister stated: 
Uranium contracts which were entered into prior to the recent elections had unsatisfactory prices, the best of which was US$7.25. 
This is completely untrue and the Minister knows it. He ought to be man enough- 
 Yes. It is US$7.25 per lb for U308. The Minister knows because he has received the same telex from EZ-Peko as I have received, that the lowest of their contracts are equivalent to US$8.10 per lb and the highest is US$10.83. When I first became a Minister under  Sir Robert  Menzies, if a Minister made an incorrect statement he immediately came into the House and corrected it when he became aware of the mistake. But do honourable members think for a moment that we will see this Minister correcting this mistake? If he is man enough to say that he is wrong he should get up and say that he is wrong and we will give him leave to correct his mistake. But of course he will not. He will sit on his fat bottom and brazen it out. 
Like  Sir William  Pettingell. 
 I withdraw that remark. The Minister will sit there and refuse to correct his statement. 
Why is it that the Minister thinks that we will get higher prices later? Again he was incorrect in his figures and again he has been told that he was incorrect. I will show him the United States Atomic Energy Commission's assessment which shows quite clearly that where the Minister said that America anticipated a shortfall of 850,000 tons of uranium by 1985, this figure is at variance with what the United States Atomic Energy Commission said, which set the anticipated shortfall in 1985 at 174,000 tons, not 850,000 tons as the Minister said. Of course this 174,000 tons shortfall includes any development from now on or any new discoveries. So again the Minister has been completely wrong. If he wants to see the Atomic Energy Commission's report he has only to get it or I can make it available to him. 
His third excuse for not granting the leases was that we will export only enriched uranium. Does he intend to delay because of this? We know that we cannot enrich uranium or have an enrichment plant, which will cost $2,700m. We cannot have one until well into the late 1980s. Does the Minister intend to prevent any company from exporting uranium until that time? He has not said how the money is being raised. He has not said what is the potential market. He has not said what sort of investigations have been carried out of the necessity for this sort of thing- 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  this afternoon made a thoughtful and very well researched speech voicing the fears and the concern of many people in this country that all is not well with the Government's oil search policy. All we have had from the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  instead of a reasoned reply, has been a collection of innuendoes, unsupported insinuations and the usual statement: 'What did you do?' He said many extremely controversial things. I would like to have time to reply to those things but, as honourable members know, those who speak in this debate are limited to a speaking time of 10 minutes. I could not reply in that time to most of the extremely controversial matters the Minister has raised. I must say that I was surprised to hear him say that the Government is approaching  Mr Lewis  Weeks for information. I want to know why the Government has not obtained this information from the Bureau of Mineral Resources, which is one of the finest organisations in the country. 
I am interested to hear that. I should have thought that the Bureau of Mineral Resources would have had all the abilities and qualities that are necessary in this area. As I have said, there is no time to reply to a great number of the matters the Minister raised. The fact is, all of us are concerned about where oil search in Australia is going. My fears have not been alleviated in the least by listening to the Minister. All we seemed to get from him was talk about every sort of hoard, committee and inquiry the Government has established. The one thing that is needed for the discovery of oil is the encouraging of people to drill. There was no thought given by or word of any sort from the Minister about what the Government is going to do to encourage more people to drill for and discover oil. We are not talking about what is going to happen in the next week, 2 weeks or month; we are talking about what is going to happen with respect to the search for oil and the discovery of oil in Australia in the next 2 to 5 years. The recent crisis in the Middle East has highlighted the need for us to be independent of oversees oil supplies especially as the cost is steadily increasing. The Government appears to be doing everything possible to retard the search for oil. What is needed to encourage the search? Firstly, encouragement of private enterprise and not interference - not getting in its way; secondly, knowledge by the industry that there are stability, certainty of conditions and, above all, the possibility of reward for those who take risk and who are successful; thirdly, availability of risk capital to go into this industry. 
What has the present Government done? Everywhere there is uncertainty.  Mr Whitlam  claims that the Japanese now know our energy policy and accept it. We are grateful to, the Japanese for getting something from the Government which we in Australia have not been able to get. Frankly I wonder whether they do know the policy and whether they do accept it. The local industry certainly does not know it. In a grand Churchillian phrase, the meaning of which could be interpreted in a number of ways, the Prime Minister said that in future we would be masters in our own house. Exactly what that means I have not the faintest idea because we have always been masters in our own house. We have always had power to refuse exports and on occasions when we have found it necessary we have refused exports. But does the new policy mean that in future no person who is resident outside Australia can invest in the search for energy resources in Australia? How can this be controlled? How can the Government control the purchase of shares in Australia to see that they are purchased, only by Australians? Why should the Government want to have such control? What would it achieve? Will overseas companies which already have interests in energy projects in Australia have to sell? This is an extraordinary situation which is presided over by a Minister who is now known as 'Keep it in the ground Connor'. 
The Government appears to be attempting to prevent exploration. The Government says that companies are not doing sufficient exploration but it refuses to allow anyone else to do it for those companies. This situation is almost reminiscent of the Mad Hatter's Tea Party in 'Alice in Wonderland'. One can almost hear the Mad Hatter saying: 'You are not doing enough exploration but we will do everything we possibly can to see you do not do any more'. So farm-ins wait but, more importantly, the industry has long since ceased to look for partners to help in the search for oil in Australia because they know it is useless to submit any request for a farm-in to the Minister. Three major companies have ceased the search for oil in Australia. Australian oil search companies are looking for oil in Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia where they understand and accept the rules, but not in Australia. Australia has become suspect. It is referred to as a banana republic. The North West Shelf consortium has decided not to bring in a fourth rig which it intended to bring in. Overseas companies can get exploration permits but no production licences so why should they bother to look for anything, knowing that if they find anything it will be taken from them? 
Everywhere chaos and confusion abound. One of the quite fallacious ideas held by the Government is that the way to increase the country's reserves is to conserve and not use them. History shows the very opposite. The most practical method of developing mineral resources is to continue exploring for them. The experience of the Province of Alberta in Canada in the development of its petroleum industry is of great practical benefit to Australia. Natural gas was first discovered in Alberta in the early 1920s. In 1947 significant discoveries of oil were made at the Luduc and Redwater field and by 1952 the then known reserves of oil in Alberta were about 1,500 million barrels of crude oil and 5 trillion cubit feet of natural gas - about the same amount of crude oil as we have in Australia today. But the Government of Alberta followed a policy of encouraging the industry and this resulted in substantial additional discoveries, substantial exports and a major increase in reserves. In the last 20 years earnings from the sale of exports from Alberta resulted in the growth of the industry through drilling and in 1972 Alberta's oil reserves were approximately 9 billion barrels or about 9 times what they were 20 years ago. 
The Australian Government, at a time when we need oil, has prevented capital investment by freezing 33i per cent of the capital coming in from overseas in the Reserve Bank without interest, lt has abolished special tax concessions which encouraged local capital investment in oil search. It has abolished the oil search subsidies. It has frozen farm-ins and farm-outs. Is it any wonder that oil search in Australia is languishing? What is needed is a return to the tried and proven policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Actions of a future Liberal-Country Party government will be based on the following beliefs: Firstly, we believe in the encouragement of private enterprise as the driving force of development. It must, however, be regulated by government so that the nation receives a fair share of the rewards of the development and sale of our resources. Care must be taken to assess the nation's requirements and the extent of our resources so as to ensure that adequate supplies are retained in Australia for foreseeable future requirements. Secondly, we believe in close cooperation between the State and Federal governments in plans for mining exploration and development, recognising that in the field of mineral production the States have considerable expertise. Thirdly, close relations and cooperation between governments and industry must be re-established. 
Fourthly, when overseas sales occur we must seek to ensure that we obtain as high a price for them as possible and that the maximum possible amount of processing occurs in Australia. Fifthly, a Liberal-Country Party government would not use taxpayers' money on exploration which involves high risks, high costs and large funds. Sixthly, priority should be given - this is what a Liberal-Country Party government would do - to joint ventures in which there is at least a 50 per cent Australian equity participation. Nevertheless we are not opposed to foreign capital, particularly where Australians are unwilling or unable to participate. Australians should have a reasonable share in the management of these projects. Suitable and adequate encouragement will be devised to encourage investment in mining by Australian investors. One of the worst things that the present Government is doing is drying up these funds. 
The Opposition is concerned to see that adequate sources of power and energy are available to meet the needs of the nation. To this end, in government we would map and assess the extent of these resources. Finally, the Liberal Party favours the establishment of natural gas and oil pipelines in Australia under government supervision. 
Inthe past year the Department of Minerals and Energy has figured in more matters of public importance in this Parliament than have any of the other 37 departments. That illustrates the concern of the Opposition about the policies that are being introduced by the Government in this field. In no other policy field has the Whitlam Government been so disastrous as it has in the field of minerals and energy. The tragedy is that in wrecking the Australian mining industry the Minister genuinely believes that somehow he is helping Australia. He has a horror of overseas capital. He misrepresents and distorts the position. Figures produced by the Commonwealth Statistician show that 44 per cent of the minerals industry is owned by people who do not reside in Australia, The Minister has produced new figures based on a new formula making the position sound worse. He says that 62 per cent of the industry is owned or controlled overseas. For the purposes of the Minister it is possible for an Australian firm with 75 per cent Australian ownership to qualify as owned or controlled overseas. Final control over Australia's minerals is exercised by the Government. It will always have that control through its control over exports. It appears that the Minister will go to any lengths to prevent private enterprise - Australian or overseas - from carrying on its business of prospecting for and mining minerals. The Minister took over a prosperous, thriving industry with great expectations. Now it is rapidly going downhill. How has the Minister achieved this, and why has he achieved it? Firstly, he has prevented overseas capital from coming into Australia. Originally there was a 25 per cent freeze of overseas funds, and this made it very difficult to borrow overseas. This has now been increased to 33$ per cent. These funds are frozen in the Reserve Bank. But there are exceptions to this. 
We were informed in the newspapers only very recently that a new iron ore project at Marandoo in Western Australia is expected to proceed. It is reported that the multi-national company, Texasgulf, which has a 50 per cent' interest in this venture, will not have to deposit 33i per cent. One asks: Why has the requirement been waived, if it has been waived? I should like to know which Minister or Ministers make these decisions. What are the criteria on which these decisions are based? Why should one company receive preferential treatment and another not? For example, we know that Mount Isa Mines Ltd, the majority of which is now Australian owned and which is wholly managed by Australians, cannot get a farm-in even though it has applied to assist in the search for oil. This farm-in is blocked. Yet, if what we read in the newspapers is correct Texasgulf, which owns 50 per cent of this iron ore project and which is completely managed in the United States because it insists on having this management, gets the nod whereas WoodsideBurmah does not. What an opportunity this is for political patronage. It will be interesting to see, when the Minister for Services and Prop erty  (Mr Daly)  produces a Bill dealing with the disclosure of political contributions, whether any of those getting political patronage are or have recently been contributors to the Labor Party. 1 should like also to know - I hope that the Minister for Minerals and Energy will answer my questions later in the debate, as we expect him to do - whether Texasgulf is getting help in infrastructure which is not available to other iron ore companies. 
This is only one of a great many of the Government's detrimental policies. Of course, in the 10 minutes available to me in this debate I do not have time to refer to all the Government's detrimental policies. I shall mention quickly some of the many actions which are detrimental to mining, which have been introduced by the present Government and which are already having a cumulative effect. I have mentioned the freeze of 33i per cent. There is the abolition of the oil search subsidy at a time when we were told by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that Australia needs to step up its search for oil. The oil search subsidy which was of considerable encouragement, particularly to the smaller Australian companies, is about to be abolished. There has been the abolition of the concessions provided under section 77 of the income tax legislation, which encouraged capital for mining. This, of course, has a major effect again on the small Australian companies. I have mentioned already that farm-ins have been cut out. Mount Isa Mines, which is an Australian owned and Australian managed company, cannot even get a farm-in in a prospective area to look for oil. What has happened now, of course, is that virtually every company is not inviting any further farm-ins because it believes it is just a complete waste of time seeking other people to assist it in the search for either oil or minerals. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy has announced that all oil will be taken at wellhead by the Federal Government. This, of course, means that there is no incentive for anyone to search for oil or minerals. The companies have only one buyer and if that buyer, which is the Government, says that it will pay them only half what the oil is worth, the companies have no recourse of any sort, provided of course that the particular Bill on which this is based is held to be valid. I continue with the detrimental policies of this 
Government. We were told in the Budget that the gold tax-free assistance was to be abolished. We were told again only last week that it was going to happen, and now we are told that Caucus has overruled this. We are starting to wonder just who runs the Government and who runs the country. It is too late now if the Government tries to restore this assistance because the plain fact is that major projects were scheduled to go ahead in the large area around Kalgoorlie in Western Australia. At least 4 old goldmines were to be re-opened when the price of gold increased, but the reduction in the tax concession has knocked this on the head. It has probably been knocked on the head forever, or for a very long time. 
The prospectors' tax exemption has been abolished. If ever the Government has done a futile thing it is the abolition of this tax exemption. The Department of the Treasury has said that the total saving would be approximately $20,000 a year. This exemption is applied in a case where a prospector might find something which turns out, perhaps a long time later, to be a viable mine. If he sells his interest in the mine the proceeds used to be tax free. In most instances a prospector is lucky if this happens to him once in a lifetime. The proceeds used to be tax free but they are no longer to be tax free. One can give many other examples. Of course, the revaluations of the Australian dollar have had a vital effect on the ability of the mining industry to compete in Australia. There has been the abuse of the miners - reference to the mugs and the hillbillies. The Government has forced the withdrawal of uranium offers. The accelerated write-off of capital costs has been abolished. 
What is the net result of this on a great mining industry - an industry which in the 1960s built up enormously and has made Australia, in the eyes of the world, one of the leading mining industries in the world? We were the envy of the world. Now only five out of 21 rigs are drilling on-shore; 16 rigs are idle. Three major overseas oil companies are ceasing operations in Australia and moving out. Another major company, Kenecott has announced that it is no longer interested in the Cadia prospect even though there is a possibility that some other company will come in. An Australian owned and operated tin mine at Emmaville in New South Wales has shut down. Shares have dropped 50 per cent in 9 months. Queensland Mines Ltd does not know where it stands. It was delisted but has come back again. It does not know what the situation is. 
The new search for oil has virtually ended. I have already mentioned that 4 gold fields are not being reopened. Australian oil companies are going overseas because they know that in countries like Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines there is some certainty of what the rules are, but there is no certainty in Australia. Natural gas to Sydney has been delayed. The Pipelines Authority Act is claimed to be wholly invalid. The Weipa alumina refinery, which would have been worth $500m to Australia, is not proceeding because of the actions of this Government. Processing is more economic overseas. Sales of uranium have been lost for all time. We know that $750m worth of contracts could have been obtained and that Australia would have obtained at least a share of that money. 
I am sorry to see that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has left the chamber. I had warned him that I would be raising a matter which I had discussed with him. One of the many actions that has been taken by the Minister for Defence in his capacity as Minister for the Army, in order to keep his expenditure within the amount of money he was allotted in the Budget, was the disbanding of four Regulary Army corps bands. One of those scheduled for oblivion is the Signals Corps band at Kapooka where the 1st Recruit Training Battalion is located. The decision has brought immediate, prolonged and adverse reaction in the Riverina. I doubt if I have ever seen during my parliamentary career a decision of this sort that has been so unpopular and to which there has been such sustained opposition. Already I have received 2,500 signatures to a petition asking the Minister for the Army to reconsider the decision. I have passed them on to the Minister. I have informed the Minister's staff that another 1,400 signatures have been obtained. They will also be passed to the Minister as soon as I receive them in the post. The House may wonder why this action, which to some honourable members may not seem to be a major matter, has brought forward such a violent reaction from my constituents. I think the answer is twofold. First, as I have said already, Kapooka is the location of the Army's 1st Recruit Training Battalion. Both military and civilian personnel in the area have asked how a new recruit can be trained to march and to drill without a military band. I thank the Minister for returning to the chamber. Certainly the band need not be large. Inceed, the Kapooka band is not large, but to my way of thinking it is an essential adjunctto a training base. Once a week a passing-out parade is held. This parade is usually attended by many of the parents and friends of those who have completed their training. These people come from all over the continent and their presence is good for the morale of the trainees. The absence of a band would virtually mean the end of these parades. 
The other important part played by the Regular Army's Signal Corps band is its activities in the nearby city of Wagga Wagga. The band has played an active part in the civic life of the city. It plays there during the beating of the retreat, during marches through the city and during many civic occasions when Wagga is visited by distinguished visitors. Recently I witnessed an excellent demonstration of marching, counter-marching and quick and slow-marching during the visit to the city by the State Minister for Youth and Welfare. Last week I went to the Minister for Defence and told him of the high regard in which the band was held, and of the vacuum that would be created if the band was disbanded. He promised to review the decision and I have no doubt that he intends to carry out this promise. Unfortunately, actions taken previous to this promise have continued to roll on. First, the Minister had tabled for him yesterday a speech which included the words: 
It has been decided to disband four of the Regular Army's corps bands at Puckapunyal, Kapooka, Singleton and Casula. 
Second, I understand that notices of posting have been received already by 23 out of 25 members of the band. So it is urgent for the Minister to act quickly in reviewing this decision. 
When I saw the Minister last week he said that the abolition of a number of bands had been recommended to him by the Army Board. I pointed out to him that this was not so. What the Army Board had in effect said was that if the defence vote was to be reduced from 3.5 per cent of the gross national product to less than 3 per cent of GNP, one of the many ways in which such a reduction could be achieved was by getting rid of the bands. The Minister pointed out that the disbandment of the 4 bands marked out for the axe would save about $1.5m, but Kapooka, with only about 25 bandsmen, can only be costing between about $200,000 and $300,000 a year. To my way of thinking the Army and the public are getting good value for their money from the band at Kapooka. May I make one final point. The Government has made a point of saying that it believes in decentralisation. This is very much decentralisation, yet this band is being abolished and its members are being posted to larger centres. The Government does not intend to abolish the band at the Royal Military College at Duntroon, so why should it abolish the band at Kapooka? After all it would be much easier to form a city band in Canberra than it would be to do so in Wagga Wagga. Finally, in the light of the thousands of signatures requesting a review of this decision, not only from the public but also from the Returned Soldiers League and leading citizens who are, after all, also voters, I ask the Minister to reverse this decision. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an article in the authoritative London magazine 'The Economist' of 17 November entitled 'Find It and Hope', which claims that the policies on energy announced in Tokyo by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy will effectively stop exploration for oil in Australia by non-Australian companies? Does he believe that this is the right time to limit the search for oil in Australia to Australian capital, reduced as it is by the withdrawal of various tax concessions and the abolition of the oil search subsidy and farm-in arrangements? Will he look at the suggestion made last week by the honourable member for Adelaide that there be a resumption of foreign investment in exploration ventures under specific guidelines and local equity provisions? 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  whose ability to get any figures correct is extremely suspect, made the statement on Monday that there are in Australia no more than 8 years known recoverable reserves of crude oil. Anyone with the least knowledge of oil research and production would know this statement to be absolute nonsense. One does not merely add up our total reserves and divide that figure by our current and anticipated demand. What happens, of course, is that an oil well is brought into full production in its early years and over a period of about IS years or more this production gradually declines until the particular field is exhausted. It does not suddenly cut out. 
Australia has some 1SS0 million barrels of known reserves of oil. Local production satisfies about 66 per cent of our requirements. The remaining 33 per cent of our requirements are for heavier crude oils and are supplied from overseas sources. Production in Bass Strait will be kept up for some years through the third platform on Kingfish and the deeper levels in Marlin. Later Snapper and Tuna oil fields will offset the reducing flow from the earlier established fields. The reserves of oil discovered in the north-west shelf of our continent are unfortunately not large at this stage and because of the economics involved in bringing fields into production in that area have not been declared commercial. However, the area is extremely prospective. The Cooper Basin also has prospects and, of course, some known oil. Already we know of the existence of some 60 million barrels at Mereenie in the Northern Territory. 
Thus, while Australia's reserves of coal, natural gas and uranium are sufficient for our reasonable requirements for some considerable time to come, the urgent need is to step up dramatically the search for oil. There is only one way that that can be done and that is by the expenditure of vast sums of money. All existing commercial reserves will have been developed fully and will be in production by the end of the 1970s. Production will continue into the 1990s, but on a declining scale. Significant new discoveries are needed. In fact, if in 20 years Australia is to produce 70 per cent of its oil requirements it will need a fivefold increase in oil discovery and even greater discoveries to be self-sufficient. 
So far average returns from petroleum exploration in Australia have been disappointing. In fact, from a cumulative expenditure of about $ 1,000m, used to drill some HOO wildcat expoloration wells, only 5 really significant oil fields have been developed. If one works out the cost per barrel of discovering oil so far one estimates that an annual rate of expenditure of approximately $200m will be required to maintain the present standard of self-sufficiency. Where is this money to come from? At present only about half this amount is being spent each year but even that is likely to drop drastically as a result of the policies of this Government. 
As I have pointed out to the House on a previous occasion, exploration in Australia is already dropping rapidly and disastrously. Now only one rig is operating on-shore over the whole 3 million square miles of the Australian continent. Twenty rigs are idle. Who would blame the operators for this? If they do find a commercial field the Minister has announced that he will take the oil from them. It is no wonder that the London 'Economist', in a recent article on Australian oil entitled 'Find It and Hope', said: 
The apparent contradiction in the Government's policies will effectively stop exploration by nonAustralian companies. 
The article went on to say: 
Without the promise of future profits from development, oil exploration is not worth the huge expense. This seems to be only dimly recognised by the Government's advisers. Since the removal of tax concessions for local residents to invest in oil exploration there has been a distinct lack of interest in providing Australian risk capital for the business. The off-shore drilling program is at its lowest level for over a decade. 
What the article might also have said is that another off-shore rig has left Australian waters, probably permanently. It might have said that 3 major international oil companies have ceased to search in Australia over the past 12 months, and that Australian companies are working in South East Asia in preference to Australia. The article might also have said that the search for oil in Australia is rapidly coming to a standstill. 
The Minister appears to welcome this situation. It has become apparent that he would sooner have no oil discovered in Australia than have it discovered by one of those wicked companies owned by a majority of shareholders resident overseas. Why he has this vindictive spirit against these companies I am completely unable to understand. No company - Australian or overseas - can export 1 gallon of petroleum from Australia without his permission, and it must pay more than half its profits to the Government, as well as many other taxes. We have the simple choice. Australian investors simply cannot provide all the necessary capital to explore adequately. The Government certainly cannot, and it should not use taxpayers' funds for risk capital anyway. There have been rumours of the Government's putting up $50m, but this would be only a drop in the bucket, and the Government lacks the new technologies and the exploration and management skills to carry this out. 
So the only other choice available to us if we want the $200m necessary to retain selfsufficiency spent here annually, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said last week, is to allow a resumption of foreign investment under specified guidelines and local equity provisions. As he said so clearly: 
We must not throw out the baby with the bath water. Exploration is needed. 
After all, what is so evil about foreign investment? Lee Kuan Yew welcomes it in Singapore. He welcomes all he can get. Yet there is no country more nationalistic than Singapore. Foreign investment is encouraged by both Federal and State governments in the United States of America, usually with no limits. The United States Department of Commerce even administers an 'Invest in the United States of America Program'. Foreign investment is welcomed generally in Canada. I do not have time to go through the list which has been given to me by the Parliamentary Library, but if honourable members are interested, I have here to show them a very long and full list of the principles and policies of various other countries under which they allow investment from overseas. 
Capital liberalisation started in Japan in 1967 and the final stage took effect on 1 May 1973. Now 100 per cent foreign ownership in Japanese firms is permitted, with certain exceptions and provisions. Again time does not permit me to go into this matter fully but if honourable members are interested they could obtain a copy of the research work undertaken by the Parliamentary Library which shows the conditions under which foreign investment is allowed in other countries and is welcomed. For example, the New 
Zealand Government welcomes foreign investment. Joint ventures are favoured, although there are no legal limitations on 100 per cent foreign ownership in New Zealand. The South African Government recognises that a steady inflow of foreign investment is necessary to maintain South Africa's economic development. Foreign investors are encouraged to take local partners. France is one of the few countries which prohibits foreign investment in certain fields, but even there many foreign firms have been encouraged to invest in the French provinces. 
Every day one sees headlines in the newspapers such as a few I have here which appeared in the last day or two. The Bulletin', under the headline 'Strangled', had this to say: 
Oil Drilling and Exploration has a chilling tale of how exploration work is declining in Australia under the auspices of Rex Connor. 
In their annual report, directors say that while the company obtained the majority of oil drilling contracts available in the past year, the overall on-shore rig utilisation in Australia was the lowest for more than 12 years. 
Another newspaper had the heading: 'Government copying United States Errors on Gas - Broker'. The article said: 
The Federal Government's 'foolish' attitudes on natural gas policies probably will prove a temporary phenomenon . . . sharebrokers say. 
It went on to say that we are repeating the errors that have been made in the United States, where there has been a tendency not to look for gas because of the inadequate rewards for it. A further article, under the headline: 'Attack by Abrolhos on Government oil, gas policies', reads as follows: 
A strongly worded attack on the Federal Government's attitude to natural resources was made yesterday in the Chairman's address of Abrolhos Oil NL. 
The  Chairman  . . . said that at a time when the discovery of oil and natural gas was so vital to the future of Australia, the directors were gravely concerned and puzzled at the Government's lack of ground rules and its removal of incentives. 
So one can go on. A further article has the heading: 'Search declines to its lowest point'. It says: 
The search for minerals in Australia is at its lowest point for years. 
Every day one can pick up a newspaper and read these things. 
Of course, at the same time as talking about energy crises, the Government should be doing everything it can sensibly to reduce our dependence on oil. For example, we could substitute gas, coal and electricity for oil in stationary burners. The Minister has suggested the use of Australian liquid petroleum gas in making local motor spirit. Whilst this may be technically feasible, it is a good deal more expensive and at present virtually prohibitive. In addition to that, of course, one would have to draw enormous amounts of gas, much of which could not be used, just to convert a certain amount into motor spirit. Coal liquefaction and oil from shale is again more expensive than looking for oil, but it could play a part in the future. The situation is that Australia's energy resources will take a lot of money and effort before they are reasonably explored. 'Unless some of that money and effort comes from both Australian and overseas investors we will fall far short of the effort necessary to maintain reasonable selfsufficiency. 
I have put forward these suggestions to the Government in a genuine attempt to persuade it to review its disastrous policies, as even some of its own members would undoubtedly desire. But I am afraid that these pleas will fall on deaf ears. As one person with many years experience in the fuel section of the Bureau of Mineral 'Resources said recently: 
When the Minister recently said 'our search for crude oil is continuing, especially off-shore' this would be read as indicating that the Australian Government is actively and directly involved in the search for oil, when in fact it is actively involved in reducing the exploration effort. 
It is unfortunately a fact of life which we must acknowledge that Australia's exploration for petroleum will continue to languish until there is a change of Government. 
It is all too rare an occasion in this House when one side of the House seems to be on reasonably good terms with the other. I had hoped that this attitude would continue. I am afraid the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  brought in a certain note of politics. I know it is extremely difficult in a place like this to keep politics out of it altogether but I feel it is a pity when we get back to that old political stock-in-trade of 'What did you do?'. Of course none of us have been as successful in the field of decentralisation as we would have wanted either in the Federal sphere or in the State sphere. The honourable member for Casey was blaming us for the drift to the city. There is no doubt whatsoever, and figures can prove it, that this drift occurred over a period. It did not occur only during the period of government of my Party. The fact that we were in power for 23 years did not give the Labor Party an opportunity to show just what sort of drift it would have had if it had been in power. The basic factor which has caused this - I am afraid the honourable member for Casey ignored it - is the vast change which has occurred in relation to land. In the old days - and I talk about the time when I first went on to my property - it was a manpower job. We were still using draught horses. In those days 10 men did less than 3 men would do towards the end of my time, because- manpower has been replaced with machinery. I am sure that the honourable member for Casey would not want us to go back to the days of almost peasant farming. If we go back far enough, it was peasant farming. We have got away from that situation and no one would think of going back to it. That is the basic reason why there has been a drift to the cities. 
I do not wish to extol the virtues of anything we should have done. All I can say is that if we had not done a number of things we did do undoubtedly the drift to the cities would have been worse. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  mentioned the amount of assistance that was given to primary industry. This had a remarkable effect particularly at a time when everything was going against the man on the land - prices, seasons and everything else. In addition, of course, we had policies in regard to the location, encouragement and development of mining which had a tremendous effect. People do not often realise that during the decade of the 1960s at least 25 towns were established in Australia. Most of them were completely new; a few were resurrected from ghost towns. This had a tremendous effect on decentralisation throughout the whole of Australia but more particularly in the north. 
Having said that, let me refer to this measure. I intend to make some critical remarks concerning certain aspects of the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  but this certainly does not mean that I oppose the principle of decentralisation. I only oppose the way in which the Government is carrying out some of this decentralisation. Ever since I came into this House I have spoken on many occasions on the necessity for decentralisation and the necessity for policies which encouraged a greater spread in the country. After all, we in the Liberal Party have decentralisation as our official plank. I was glad that it was the honourable member for Casey who mentioned the fact that one of the 2 meetings which led to the formation of the Liberal Party was held at Albury. Going back even further, Corowa, which is not far from Albury, was where one of the major meetings which was held which led to Federation and to the formation of the Federal Parliament in which we sit. It is interesting that that area should be selected for this growth. I believe that the Liberal Party is the only political party which has as one of its officials planks an Australian nation in which decentralisation of industry is encouraged. 
A major problem in Australia, which has been brought forward and highlighted by previous speakers, is that it has a small population and an extremely large continent. I think that 40 per cent of our population lives in Sydney and Melbourne and 56 per cent lives in the capital cities. The worst feature is that the position is becoming worse. Between 1961 and 1969 the total population in New South Wales increased by 558,000. Of this number only 68,000 went into areas outside Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. Some humourists have said that N.S.W. stands for Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong, and I think that it virtually does because the rate of increase in Sydney in that period was 6 times that in country areas. If this rate continues, there will be some extreme problems with traffic congestion, transport, sewerage facilities, pollution and the availability of houses, land and water. 
As cities develop, public investment becomes more costly. I can recall the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  when he was Minister for the Interior, telling me that a study carried out by his Department showed that it. cost almost twice as much to set up one person in Sydney as it did to set up one person in Canberra. This was because of the increased cost associated with traffic, roads, water, sewerage and all the other services that went from the public sector into setting up that one person. 
I believe that all honourable members would like to see encouragement given to people and to industry to relocate in the country. There are advantages in country establishment and in dwelling in the country. I suppose that one of the greatest advantages is the fact that there is less pollution, a better life closer to nature and less time lost in transportation. It is not unusual for a person living in a city to take an hour or more going to work and another hour or more coming home from work each day. On the other hand, although there is less traffic congestion, very little public transport is available in country areas and this means that in most cases country residents need to have their own transport. 
Basically, there are more recreational facilities in the country, although one might not get some of the spectacles, such as Collingwood v. Carlton and similar football matches. Nevertheless, I suppose that if we can see the Benalla and Albury teams play that is almost as good. Cheaper land is available in country areas. In most cases there is no shortage of labour, particularly female labour. Generally speaking, the country work force appears to be more reliable and stable, although not always as technically competent and skilled. Normally, in most country areas it is possible to get cheaper water and sewerage facilities. 
Against that, there are disadvantages. For instance, transport costs are more expensive. This is one of the greatest problems militating against industry setting up in the country, which involves the cost of bringing raw material to a factory, then working on it and then sending the finished product back to where the major markets are located - usually in the Melbourne and Sydney areas. Also, there is the problem of higher telephone charges. I shall say a little more about that later. Further, if an industry does move into a country area it is not easy to get those who are working in the industry - in some cases skilled labour - to move to the area. I can recall that when the Borg-Warner Company's factory was moved to Albury the company had considerable difficulty initially in getting its top management to settle in Albury. However, those who did go there were so thrilled with it after a short time that now there is a waiting list and people are anxious to go there as quickly as they can. 
I do not need to mention again the fact that we set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. This has been mentioned already by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Whether we had won or lost the election, this had been set up under  Sir John  Overall, an extremely able person. I believe that if a Liberal-Country Party Government had remained in power it would have been extremely likely that the Authority would have recommended that Albury-Wodonga be one of the first areas selected as future growth centres. I think the main difference between the Labor Party and our parties is the way in which our parties would have sought to build up Albury-Wodonga as a growth centre and to run the area. It is of interest to note that last year many of the citizens of Wagga, which also is in my electorate, were green with envy when they learned that Albury was to become a growth centre; but I can assure the Minister that today many of them are thanking their lucky stars that their city was not selected. 
The Minister needs to go there. I believe that a similar change has occurred in Albury - from a euphoria 12 months ago to a doubt, and I do not put it any higher than a doubt today. The Minister claims that the Bill represents 'our achievements', but the people of Albury are asking what has been the achievement. All that appears to have happened so far is a stopping of the natural growth. There was a rate of increase of about 6 per cent per annum and a great deal of this has been stopped. Of course, land prices have been frozen and very few sales occur now. The Albury City Council does not know what authority it has, if any. It has been directed to cancel 5 major development projects that it was about to approve. The result is that industrial builders, who depend on major industrial projects and are not equipped for home building, have had to stand down staff and their activities are virtually at a standstill. 
Through me, the mayor and  deputy  mayor of Albury tried for some weeks - almost months - to see the Prime Minister about some of these problems. Finally, we received word that he was too busy. After all, he was the greatest and he was going off to China. Last year he had plenty of time to see them, but unfortunately he has none today. I am afraid that it is quite obvious to me that there is no place for local government in the new set-up. Sooner or later, the councils or shires in the area either will cease to exist or will have so little authority as to make it difficult to get anyone of top quality to stand for election to these bodies. Perhaps the Minister will point to the fact that the proposed Development Corporation will have 2 representatives of local government on it, one from New South Wales and one from Victoria. But they are in a minority of 2 to 3 government representatives. As three is a quorum, the State and Commonwealth representatives could operate on their own. Certainly, their view could prevail over that of the local people. 
 I am not sour at all. I am only pointing out to the Minister the problems. After all, I live in the area. The Minister goes there only occasionally and on many occasions, no doubt, he would be speaking to officials there and would not get the feeling to the same extent as would a person who lives in the area. I am sure that when the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  speaks on this matter he will inform the Minister of the same problems. 
Perhaps the Minister will point also to the fact that there is to be set up a consultative council which will have the function of advising the Development Corporation. Those of us who have witnessed the ineffectiveness of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council over many years could not have any faith that the views of the proposed council would be listened to or that it would be likely to attract people of the quality and ability that we would seek. People are attracted to local government because they have an executive role and not an advisory role. On occasions the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council has resigned because its members felt that their advice was not accepted. I expect that the AlburyWodonga council will find itself in the same position. The situation is bad enough in Canberra. The Minister responsible for the Australian Capital Territory at least resides for some part of the year in the Territory. But it will be much more difficult to control the growth of Albury-Wodonga from 200 miles away. 
A great deal will depend on the ability, especially in the field of urban development and city planning, of the Commission members. But the Minister is claiming that events have moved quickly and that the Government has achieved a great deal. I feel that all that it has achieved so far has been the creation of committees, councils and bureaucracies. We still seem to be a long away from getting a final plan or even a suitable interim plan. As a result, uncertainties and confusion exist. Neither has the Government foreshadowed any way in which Albury-Wodonga is to be encouraged to grow. Canberra has grown on the strength of the public servants mostly transferred from Melbourne, and later increased in number as Australia grew. I cannot see Albury ever housing very many Commonwealth public servants. It would be too remote from their Ministers, their departmental heads and other public servants with whom they are required to confer constantly. Albury-Wodonga must grow as the result of attracting industry. 
There is no other way in which it will grow. What people are waiting for is some indication of how and when this is to be done. So far, the policies of this .Government, such as revaluation and tariff cuts, have led to the closing down of some local industries which appeared to have good prospects a year ago but which cannot today compete with overseas industries. What we want to know as soon as possible is this: What are these incentives to be? Will tax concessions be available to decentralised industry? Will subsidies be provided with respect to freights, rates, land costs, power costs, and fuel costs which, of course, as my colleague from Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  pointed out have recently been increased? 
When will the Government implement its election promise to give local call access by telephone from Albury-Wodonga to Melbourne and to Sydney? What is being done to enable aircraft larger than Fokker Friendship aircraft to land at Albury? When is an instrument landing system to be installed at Albury airport? What are the Government's proposals for improving the availability of primary and secondary schools to cope with the increased population which will result solely from the decision of the Whitlam Government to make this area a growth centre? Whenever one writes to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  he says that this is a State matter; but it is not entirely so. The Commonwealth must take some of the responsibility. When are we to get a university or improved tertiary facilities at Albury-Wodonga? When will people know whether their land is to be resumed? If it is to be resumed, will they be compensated immediately or will they have to wait years, unable to sell their land, until the Government decides whether it wants that land? These are some of the questions which. I hope the Minister for Urban and Regional Development will answer when he replies at the end of this debate. 
Will the Government agree to freehold tenure? This, I think, is probably the most important question of all- certainly from the point of view of the people who live in that area. They want a freehold tenure system, and it is desired by the State Governments of New South Wales and Victoria. How much of the funds which the States will use for land acquisition, development and building works will be repayable loan funds, carrying the present interest rates which, under Labor as we know, are running at the highest level in living memory? Should a 5 per cent preference be given to country industries and should loans be offered to those industries? I understand that such action is undertaken to some extent by State governments. Overseas it is not unusual for loans to be offered to industry, for example, in such remote areas as Sardinia or regions of Scotland where the setting up of industry is desired. Has the Australian Government plans to do the same? 
I see that the time available to me in this debate has nearly expired. I say to the Minister that I am sorry if I have sounded overcritical. But the fact is that for 12 months now in Albury we have faced a situation in which all that happened has been a freeze. Things which were going ahead naturally have ceased to go ahead. We do not yet seem to have any firm development. Perhaps I am expecting results too quickly. But no doubt exists that, as yet, we have had nothing other than committees, commissions and bureaucracies; not one extra brick has been added to the area by the actions of the Minister. Having said that, I would be grateful if the Minister could give us answers to some of these queries which I have put up, because I know that the people who live in this area are considerably concerned as to what the future holds for them. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 seeks to set up a petroleum and minerals authority to enter into the search for and the production of petroleum and minerals. The Opposition totally rejects the whole concept of this Bill which is designed for nothing but naked socialism. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  told us at the beginning of his second reading speech that the decision to set up this authority is based on the policy of the Government as enunciated by the 1971 Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party. I am getting a bit sick and tired of this Launceston Conference being treated as though it is holy writ. The conference was, after all, only a meeting of the faceless 36 men or whatever number they have now been increased. These men were not elected by the people and it is doubtful whether there was even one geologist among the lot of them. One of the Minister's colleagues, the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  thought so little of this conference that he strongly attacked its decisions on primary industry of which he was then the official Opposition spokesman by saying that very few members of the conference knew anything about rural matters. If he could say this about the conference when there were after all some farmers present, how much more could this be said of the mining sector when there were no geologists or no mining experts present? 
The policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  contained no mention of the proposed authority, so under no circumstances can the Minister for Minerals and Energy claim to have a mandate to set it up. The Launceston Australian Labor Party platform on minerals bears all the marks of having been prepared by a person living in the past with a Eureka Stockade philosophy. One would not even be surprised if the Minister himself was the author of this document as it shows that old fashioned Labor distrust of anyone who is successful or anyone who tries to develop his country by private enterprise. One can understand, of course, the Minister having these views because, after all, I believe he is approaching the allotted span of 3 score years and ten. But the public is entitled to expect that minerals policy is not made by a few Party hacks at a Labor Party binge but rather as a result of long and serious discussion at Cabinet, departmental and industry level. We are entitled to ask: What were the views put forward by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and were the views of the Bureau either sought or listened to? We are also entitled to ask what views did industry put forward to the Government. The answer is probably none as we know it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for the petroleum and mining industry to have meaningful discussions with the Minister. 
The Minister in his second reading speech went on to highlight the philosophical differences between the Government and the Opposition. There is, of course, a vast gulf between the 2 Parties. Under our Government, mineral exploration and development thrived. Australia was the envy of the world. Twelve months ago the mining industry had a bright future ahead of it and great expectations. Today the Australian mining industry is shaken to its very foundation. The previous Government had developed a thriving industry by encouraging private enterprise and by assisting it to get the funds it needed. However, we realise that private enterprise must be regulated by government so that the nation receives a fair share of the rewards of the development and the sale of our resources. We realise also that Australians should have a reasonable share in the management of projects in Australia and also that they should have an opportunity to acquire a reasonable share in equity participation. At the same time we recognise the vital role played by overseas capital, expertise and access to markets in the recent development of the industry. We recognise also that further capital will be required if development is not to be unduly restricted. Nevertheless, we will encourage a high and a rising degree of local equity. 
I believe that no Australian interest in Australian resources should be disposed of to overseas interests without specific approval. The Labor policy or philosophy is a good deal harder to comprehend because there have been so many contradictory statements made trying to explain what it is. The Prime Minister, for example, in his Tokyo speech, which was later tabled in this House and which was entitled 
Foreign Investment in Australia', said that in future we would have 100 per cent local ownership of oil, gas, coal and uranium. Later, however, at the Press Club he stated that the Government might permit foreign equity in oil and gas. The Minister for Minerals and Energy also states that this policy is being applied in a pragmatic way and that all cases will be considered on their merits. Yet earlier in his statement the Minister said that Australia will be the primary partner in such enterprises forthwith. Does this statement mean that there must be over 50 per cent Australian equity? If it does, it should be spelt out. The present Government used to talk of encouraging greater Australian ownership of our resources. I used to think - I now find mistakenly - that this meant getting more Australian shareholders holding shares in Australian resources. I have come to realise that when the Minister talks of Australian ownership he is not talking of individual Australian ownership but of Australian Government ownership. This has become obvious because the people who are suffering most from the policies of the present Government are the small Australian companies. 
One only has to read the headings in the financial sections of the newspapers each day to realise this. I quote a few of them: ' "New search for oil virtually ended" says Alliance head'; ' "Government hurting us" says Western Mining head'; ' "Lack of policy causing difficulties" says EZ chairman'; 'Attack by Abrolhos on Government oil, gas policies'; 'Search for minerals at its lowest point for years'. So one could go on. Virtually every paper every day carries an attack on the present Government and the present Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister has sought to hide the downturn in oil search but the figures are clear and they speak for themselves. 
Let me give these figures to the House. The footage drilled in Australia for the calendar year 1972, which was our last year in office, was 965,898 feet. In other words, just on one million feet was drilled in the search for oil and gas during that calendar year. The present calendar year of 1973 shows a downturn to 551,400 feet in footage drilled - in other words, just over half a million feet or only just over half of what was drilled in the previous year. In the 1972 calendar year 134 wells reached total depth. In the present calendar year, which is the first calendar year in which the present Government and the present Minister have operated, 73 wells reached total depth. Again this was just over half the number for the previous calendar year. We should realise that many of the actions taken by the Minister, particularly those taken in the last Budget, are only just starting to bite. We should bear in mind that since our Government went out of office there has been a carry forward of people still actively searching and this kept up the tempo for a certain time. But because of the many actions taken by the Minister this is really starting to fall off very significantly. This time last year we had 7 wells operating off shore in Australian waters. Today there are only four, which again is just over half. We have 22 rigs available to drill for oil in Australia but only one of them is operating today. 
Yes; only one. There are two which are called active in that they are being used but they are possibly being moved from one site to another. Therefore one can say that there are 19 idle, one operating and 2 which we hope will operate. But this is an appalling situation. Of course the Minister must bear the responsibility for much of this lack of drilling. 
Let us take the case of Abrolhos Oil NL, originally a small Australian company and now associated with the British Petroleum Company of Australia Ltd and other partners, the names of which I am not certain. This is only one example of the many things that have happened in the drilling field. Abrolhos negotiated an agreement with Esso Standard Oil (Australia) Ltd whereby Esso would farmin and drill a certain number of wells. At least it would prove a particular structure in order to earn itself - at no cost to Abrolhos - a share in any discovery which might be made. The Minister refused to approve this farm-in. The result was that this structure has not been drilled and probably never will be drilled. The particular rig went off to South East Asia and will probably never be seen in Australia again. 
One could go through many of these cases. Let us take the case of Mount Isa Mines Ltd which sought a farm-in in that very prospective area of the north-west shelf. No one could call Mount Isa Mines Ltd other than an Australian operated company and a company which now has a majority of Australian shareholders. It is a first class company from every point of view for the Australian nation. 
Yet it has been prevented from drilling at a time when the Minister says that we need all the oil we can get. He has done everything he possibly could to prevent it from drilling. In the last calendar month we have drilled just over half of what was drilled in Australia the previous year. Once the Minister's actions really start to bite we will be lucky to drill a quarter of what was drilled previously. 
Everywhere there is this dramatic downturn as companies leave Australia and rigs lie idle. Gulf Oil (Great Britain) Ltd, Continental Oil Co. of Australia Ltd, Union-Kern and Tricentral are all ceasing operations here. I do not doubt that there are more which have decided that the game is just not worth the candle in Australia. As I said in the House a fortnight ago - I re-emphasise this - there was only one rig drilling on-shore then; there is only one rig drilling on-shore today in Australia's 3 million square miles, and 19 rigs are shown as idle. The policies of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government led to the discovery of crude oil which has saved Australia over $ 1,000m in imports. This saving, which is currently running at about $300m per annum, will continue for at least the next 10 years. The Labor Party's policy has led to a sharp reduction in the interest in oil drilling. 
The present Government has discouraged oil search, firstly, by terminating the subsidy; secondly, by terminating the tax deductions for share subscriptions; thirdly, by banning farms-ins; fourthly, by imposing a 25 per cent - now it has gone up to one-third - Reserve Bank deposit freeze on overseas funds; fifthly, by terminating the tax exemption for petroleum dividends up to the amount of the capital expenditure; sixthly, by the decision to acquire the north-west shelf gas at the well head; and, seventhly, by the creation of a general air of apprehension and uncertainty by attacks on the industry and in particular on overseas companies. We all recall those fantastic statements by the Minister, such as mugs' and 'hill billies', a 'ripping and raping', flogging off the north-west' and all that sort of stuff. What magnificent language to come from a Minister of the Crown! 
I believe that the Government has done this quite deliberately so as to reduce oil search to the stage where it thinks it can justify a Government owned and operated authority coming in to fill the gap which it has deliberately created and thus paving the way for complete nationalisation of the industry. The first discouragement of oil search that I mentioned - the termination of the subsidy - makes nonsense of a speech made by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  in April 1972 when he referred to the previous Government's 'miserly policy on exploration subsidies'. He said that these subsidies should be looked upon as a national investment which was capable of yielding tremendous results. He said that there was an urgent and justifiable need substantially to increase the exploration subsidy, particularly to Australian companies. It should not be forgotten that if the drillers are successful the subsidies are repaid to the Government. So one cannot say: 'Here is something that the vast international oil cartels are getting and taking home.' The Government is spending it there, but the companies repay it in the event of a successful discovery. So I agree with the Minister for Northern Development. 
In the Bill before this House the Government is aiming to fill the gap by using taxpayers' money for risk capital - something to which the Opposition is implacably opposed. The Government is talking about gambling $50m per annum on oil and mineral exploration and development. There is no sign of that in the legislation and there is no appropriation. The Minister said nothing about $50m in his second reading speech. Yet apparently it has been leaked to the Press that this is what the amount will be. The Opposition has no knowledge whether it is correct. But the main thing is that if $50m is divided between mineral and oil exploration there will be $25m for each. This would be quite inadequate to reach the desired total. At present Australia is spending $100m per annum on oil search, but because of the present Government's policies this is dropping sharply. Last week I suggested in this House that we should be spending anywhere from $200m to $250m per annum if we desired to be self-sufficient in oil in the 1990s. 
One is entitled to ask: What is the need of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority to extend its activities into minerals when we already have an abundance of most of the more common minerals? The Minister mentioned this in his second reading speech. He seeks to justify his Authority by quoting other countries that have government equity in oil search. Of course the Government can par ticipate in business ventures in competition with private enterprise. The question is not whether it can but whether it should. Is it likely to be more efficient than private enterprise? He mentions the British Government as an example. All that it has done is to become a major shareholder in BP. The British Government is represented on the board of directors but it is understood that the government representative has very limited powers, and they are powers of negation. But what the Minister for Minerals and Energy is proposing is a very different kettle of fish. This is to be an Authority with wide and dictatorial powers. 
Let me come to certain aspects of the Bill which give me the greatest cause for concern. May I say quite frankly that I do not believe that a measure as complex as this, with vast ramifications for the nation and for CommonwealthState relations, should be brought in and guillotined - as it will be - through the Parliament in the dying hours of a long and arduous session. The Opposition needs time to look at it and to suggest alterations which possibly would have made it into a better Bill. If any example is needed as to how this legislation has been rushed in one has only to look at the amendments which had been circulated by the Minister before we even started to debate the Bill. He has brought in some 16 amendments to the Bill which he introduced last week. He could not even get it right himself. How does he expect us to comprehend something which is quite vast in its ramifications and which we have not yet had an opportunity to discuss with our State counterparts. Of course, there must be some doubt as to whether the Government possesses the constitutional power to set up an authority to explore for and mine minerals and petroleum. I do not see anywhere in the Constitution that a government has such a power. So it is extremely doubtful. But even if the government has the power, should this allow the Minister virtually to usurp the power of the State Mines Departments? 
This Bill seeks to give the authority sweeping powers of entry and occupation, irrespective of other title to the land. Clause 14, subclause (6), says: 
In this section, a reference to land includes a reference to land owned or occupied by a State. 
Thus, it is possible for a justice of the peace, perhaps not even from the State in which the Authority intends mining, to issue a warrant allowing the Authority to enter land for the purpose of commencing to explore for or carry on operations for the recovery of petroleum or minerals. Does this warrant override the decisions of the State mining warden? How is the justice of the peace to know whether anyone already has title in the area concerned, or does it not matter? Are companies which have expended large sums in Australia on exploration to have their permits filched from them with perhaps some compensation? The Bill says that compensation will be paid to the owner or occupier of the land. This is not particularly clear, so the companies perhaps could have their permits filched from them without even compensation. 
As I read the Bill, the Authority may perform the functions conferred on it 'so as to facilitate trade and commerce with other countries'. Does this mean that it could enter, for example, Mount Tom Price so as to mine iron ore for the purpose of trade and commerce with Japan? I cannot see why it would not mean that. If this is so, no mine in Australia would be free of the threat of nationalisation. But, of course, this is going to an extraordinary length. All that the Minister has to do is to put a notice in the Australian Government Gazette. The Bill states: 
The Authority may, by notice published in the Gazette, declare an area of the Australian continental land mass to be a petroleum exploration area or a minerals exploration area for the purposes of this Act . . . 
It goes on to state: 
The Authority shall not commence to explore for, or carry on operations for the recovery of-  these minerals - 
. unless the occupier of the land has consented in writing . . . or the Authority has been granted a warrant under section 50 . . 
As I have said, all the Authority has to do to get a warrant is to find a justice of the peace - probably in Parliament House - who has never even been to Western Australia, and he will give a warrant for the Authority to enter a particular area. It is quite ludicrous. 
Let us look at the functions of the Authority. It could certainly be said that it is necessary for additional search for petroleum in Australia to be conducted. How that is to be conducted, of course, is a subject of great difference between the Minister and ourselves. But one can ask: Is it necessary for additional search for such things as sand, clay, stone, earth, gravel, minerals - which are described as 'a naturally occurring substance or mixture of substances*, which I must say is an incredible use of the English language - coal, timber, wood or other materials or other things. I should like to know what 'other things' are but I suppose those words were inserted in case they had left out anything. It is an extraordinary situation that here, the Minister for Minerals and Energy is seeking to establish an authority which will have the widest powers, I suppose, of any authority in any Bill that I have ever seen come before this House in the 24 years in which I have been here. 
But it goes even further than that. The Authority can acquire mining undertakings. By that I take it that it can go to Mount Isa Mines Ltd and acquire it and, apparently, there is no need for the shareholders of that company to agree to the acquisition. Under this Bill, it will have the power for such acquisition and can take over such a company at whatever price it feels like paying. 
Yes, and they all finished up out of work. The Authority can underwrite issues of shares or debentures in a company. This again is a most extraordinary situation. So of course, the Opposition has come in with a recommendation which has been unanimously accepted that we totally oppose every concept of this Bill. 
In the fairly short time remaining at my disposal let me touch on a few other points. In his second reading speech the Minister for Minerals and Energy said: 
. our attitude will engender a new respect for our Australian nation. 
Now honestly, I feel that he really must be joking or else he feels that if he says this often enough, like the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  saying that he is the greatest, perhaps someone will come to believe him. But one has only to read the newspapers to get the facts. I have mentioned the local newspapers, but honourable members can read in overseas newspapers a constant denigration of the policies of the present Australian Government. I quoted last week from the 'London Economist' in which an article entitled 'Find it and Hope' asked what earthly sense there is in anyone investing money in the search for oil in Australia when they know that if they find it it will be taken over by the Minister and confiscated. Only yesterday in the 'Australian Financial Review' there was an article titled Loss of Confidence . . .'. It referred to a warning given in 'Petroleum Press Service'. I should like to read the first part of this article which states: 
Moves by the Australian Government to take over all North-West Shelf production at the wellhead from Woodside-Burmah may cause a severe loss of confidence in further hydrocarbons explorations. 
This is the view of the leading international oil industry magazine, 'Petroleum Press Service', in its December article marking the first year of Labor Government in Australia. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  had 'acted in ways which leave oilmen wondering what the future holds for petroleum exploration and exploitation,' it said. 
And so this London published magazine goes on. If one wished, one could quote article after article. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 'We shall aim at greater processing'. It is one thing to aim at greater processing but it is quite another thing to take actions which will increase processing. We took some of these actions when in Government. The present Minister has withdrawn the tax concessions on plant which of course were introduced specifically to encourage people to engage in further processing because the more we process a mineral before we export, the more we get by way of return. So, it is all very well to make a pious statement that 'we will aim at greater processing', but what has been the effect of the various actions that the Minister has taken? We know that the proposals for the Weipa alumina plant have been cancelled. There was to be constructed a $500m plant in which 12 of the major users of alumina in the world were going to invest money and develop the project. However, with a combination of the revaluations of the Australian dollar and the loss of concessions, particularly tax concessions, these companies found that it was no longer economic and the project was cancelled. This is just one case out of so many in which there was a great opportunity for development but in which the Minister for Minerals and Energy, far from aiming at greater processing, has made certain that greater processing does not occur. 
If the Government wants to aim at greater processing, it must give concessions. It must look at the costs of transport and power. The Government must either provide the infrastructure itself or at least provide some concessions to people who are willing to provide the infrastructure because in so many of these mining towns it is not merely a case of building a plant to process the minerals; the companies must also build the schools, hospitals, police stations and. everything that goes wilh it. The Minister says that he will insist on world market prices for export. Of course, we always insisted on world market prices for export. The Minister said: 
We aim to make our judgments taking into account Aboriginal interests. 
This interests me. What does he mean by 'taking into account Aboriginal interests'? We have always strongly believed that all minerals in Australia should be owned by the community and virtually all of them in fact are owned by the community. If a person owns a block of land, he does not own the minerals under that land and it would be a completely retrograde step if we ever reverted to a system like that. It is true of course, that there are a few old titles in Australia - pre- 1890 titles, I think - in which people do own the title to the minerals. But one of the great advantages that we have always had in Australia is that the state owns the title to the minerals and the state makes the arrangements for the permits, the processing, royalties and everything of this sort. I would hate to see a system such as the one which applies in the United States where one sees what one could call the fat cats doing nothing and drawing 16) per cent from everyone who mines oil under their land. However, it appears to me that the Minister could be intending to do this with Aborigines. Is the Government going to have discrimination with Aborigines owning title to minerals, v/hen no one else owns such a title? I am glad to see from the assistant Minister - I do not know what we can call him - a nod indicating that this will not happen. 
Unfortunately I see that my lime has almost expired. I had wanted to say what the Opposition would do to get this search for oil going again. I do not have the time to do this but it is well known that we have always looked carefully at and had close discussions with the industry and encouraged private enterprise and we will continue to do so. Of course immediately we return to office, which I expect to be about the middle of next year, we will set about seeing that all these people who have been so alienated and who are so necessary to the future of Australian petroleum are brought back and welcomed back into Australia again. 
The Opposition will not oppose the passage of these 2 Bills, but it draws to the attention of the Government and the public what it believes are major irregularities in the Queensland Grant (Kinchant Dam) Bill. I intend at the appropriate time to move an amendment to the motion that this Bill be read a second time. The situation as I see it is this: The Queensland Government has made a number of requests to the Commonwealth for financial assistance for water conservation. These requests have been made in the order of priorities as allocated by the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission. First it listed the Fairbairn Dam at Emerald, and this was accepted by the Commonwealth as one of the projects to receive assistance under the first national water resources development program. Next came the Pike Creek Dam. The Queensland and New South Wales Government approached the Commonwealth Government in the late 1960s, and a study carried out in 1970 showed that, at the then ruling prices, the economics of this dam were a bit marginal, but the Commonwealth made an offer of one-third of the cost of the dam, provided the States would also put up one-third each. This offer was accepted and work started on the dam. Next in priority Queensland placed the first and second phases of the Kolan scheme, or the Bundaberg scheme, and behind these the Kinchant Dam, the subject of this legislation. The application for funds for the Kinchant Dam was examined by an inter-departmental committee in 1971, and as a result of the report evaluating this proposal the Commonwealth Government decided not to provide assistance. 
This was the situation when the former Government was defeated in December of last year. Early in 1973 - on 10 January, to be explicit - the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  stated that the Commonwealth Government would carry out an urgent reappraisal of the Eton irrigation proposal, thai is, the proposal which is based on the Kinchant Dam, which we are now considering. There is no prize, of course, for guessing in whose electorate the dam was to be situated. It was in the electorate of the Minister for Northern Development. Within 5 days, officers from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and State officers were in the area carrying out a reappraisal. The rest, of course, is history. The second BAE report gave the scheme a much better economic assessment than did the first. 
There was an interdepartmental committee report. 
I have tried to obtain it and I have been unable to do so. 
No, I was not. The Commonwealth Government decided to withdraw its support for the Pike Creek Dam, in the electorates of 2 Country Party members, and to provide an almost identical amount for the Kinchant Dam in the electorate of the honourable member for Dawson. The present Government, when in Opposition, made great play of the need for open government. In government, however, it has shown itself to be completely opposed to giving the Opposition the information it needs to make a proper judgment. I have done my best to obtain all the available reports. All I have been given is a BAE report on the Eton irrigation proposal. It shows that, on the current sugar prices, this project appears to be very soundly based; but we have not been given access to the 1971 interdepartmental committee report, which I mentioned earlier and on the strength of which the previous Government decided not to support the Kinchant Dam proposal. One is entitled to ask: Why did the 2 reports vary so much? Does the Treasury support the figures, in this new report? 
Similarly, we have virtually no information about the Commonwealth's assessment of the Pike Creek Dam. The Minister and his Department will not provide any report on that dam. The only published report on it is in this very short excerpt from the Coombs Task Force report, which quotes the 1970 report: 
The economic evaluation in 1970 suggested a low level of economic net benefits; economic analysis indicated a likely return on capital of 1.7 per cent to 3.1 per cent. 
What nonsense all this makes of the Prime Minister's policy speech in which he kept saying that we would have open government. Let me read it: 
We want the Australian people to know the facts, to know the needs, to know the choices before them. We want them always to help us as a government to make the decisions and to make the right decisions. Australia has suffered heavily from the demeaning idea that the government always knows best with the unspoken assumption always in the background that only the government knows or should know anything. 
Later, of course, he went on to say: 
The Australian Labor Party will build into the administration of the affairs of this nation machinery that will prevent any government, Labor or Liberal, from ever again cloaking your affairs under excessive and needless secrecy. Labor will trust the people. 
What I am saying is that we should have greater access. We want to know whether the 1970 report has been updated in the light of current prices. If not, why not? Why has the Minister not made these figures available? Obviously a project which  was marginal in 1970 could be extremely profitable today because of the improvement in the prices of so many commodities. This whole operation has the appearance of political patronage for the electorate of the honourable member for Dawson. It is a sorry day for this national Parliament when a Commonwealth government abrogates an agreement that was entered into between the previous Government and the State governments of Queensland and New South Wales in order to switch the funds into a Labor member's electorate and into a project which the State regarded - at the time, anyway - as having a lower priority. 
It was not No. 2 at the time, and the Pike Creek Dam was not on the list the Minister showed me. The Pike Creek Dam was the State's No. 1 priority at the time the funds were requested and given. The Minister reminds me of the shire councillor who, on election as shire president, ensures that the road from town to bis front gate is sealed immediately. Now that the Minister has got his dam, there may be an opportunity for other electorates with deserving projects to obtain some money under the national water resources development program. It may be a small point, but one is entitled to ask why water conservation projects are not introduced into this House by the Minister in charge of water conservation. Luckily, for New South Wales and Queensland the Pike Creek project will proceed 'because the 2 State governments concerned regard it as of such high priority that they would be prepared to share the cost between them in order to ensure its completion. 
Yes. When the Labor Party was seeking to woo the voter at the last Federal election, it made all sorts of rash promises. On water conservation it said: 
The conservation of water has always been an integral part of Labor's development policies as they affect primary industry. Australia's water needs under line the growing interdependence between city and country. The proper use of the Murray-Darling system is as vital to Adelaide as it is to the Riverina and Sunraysia. The Ross River and Burdekin Projects are as vital to Townsville as to Townsville's hinterland. They will be prime responsibilities of the Conservation and Construction Authority, which will be financed from the $47 million which Victoria and N.S.W. will pay each year for the next 50 years for the Snowy Mountains Scheme. 
One is entitled to ask what has happened to the$47m we were to see every year. We have had 12 months of Labor government and all we have seen so far is that the Government has taken the money from one project that was already under way and diverted it to a project in the electorate of Dawson. We would be very much further down if the proposals of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for the slowing down or cessation of work on the Dartmouth Dam had been approved. We are entitled to ask what has happened to the $47m, and when we are to see some of the promises implemented or whether this is just another promise that has been forgotten. 
I am sure that the Minister for Northern Development, who probably wrote the passage I just quoted, genuinely believed that a Labor government would carry out its pledge because he, like me, is a believer in water conservation. I am afraid that those of us who sit on this side of the House had as much faith in Labor implementing this promise as we had in it implementing its promise to continue to spend 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. We have been proved right. In its first 12 months in office Labor has implemented only one new project - this Kinchant Dam proiect. This has been virtually cancelled out by taking away the money for the Pike Creek Dam. As to the second Bill we are discussing, concerning the Dawson River weirs project, the Opposition supports it. It was the McMahon Government that made the offer to the Queensland Government of the finance for this project. I now move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the assistance provided for the construction of these works has not been allocated in accordance with the highest priorities and greatest needs of the State'. 
In the interests of open government, will the Minister for Minerals and Energy table in the House the report of an assistant director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources which shows that only 35 per cent of the Australian mining and minerals processing industry is owned overseas? Why does the Minister refuse to use this figure, which has been so accurately prepared by the experts of his Department? Does it not paint a gloomy enough picture? Will the Minister see that both he and the Prime Minister in future use the correct figure and not a manufactured one. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is the very last person who should rise in this chamber and complain, almost with tears in his eyes, about the effect that an increased price for crude oil will have on the farmers. After all, we all know that currently he is supporting the oil industry employees in their attempt to get a 35-hour week. If they get a 35:hour week the effect not only on the farmers but also on everyone else in Australia will be far greater than the effect of any increase in the price of crude oil - an increase which, of course, has not been advocated. The Minister said that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  is concerned about the price of petrol and has a great concern for people of the country. Why did he remain so quiet when so many things were done which affected the country man? Why did he not bring up, before this matter of petrol prices, the matter of the superphosphate bounty which will have a greater effect than any increase in the price of petrol will have? Why did he remain quiet, if he has such a great concern for his constituents in Eden-Monaro, when the Government increased the duty on petrol by 5c and the duty on diesel by almost 5c? 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  was sitting in the House until a few moments ago. The great way he has looked after his constituents in Riverina is shown by the fact that, as a result of the actions of his Government in the last Budget, the price of petrol in Leeton went up by 6.7c a gallon. Not only did the Government increase the duty but it also reduced the equalisation of petroleum products and of course that increased the price too. It is ludicrous to say that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is looking after the interests of his constituents. At last the Government has found some topic on which the honourable member can be allowed to speak. On every previous matter he could not speak because he would have had to attack the Government. He could have brought up such matters as the abolition of the tax concession on water and soil conservation, the increase in meat inspection charges, reduced brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication and increased tax on private companies. This list would probably add up to something like S200m in increased charges directly to the farmer. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro sits there and laughs because he knows quite well that he was not allowed to speak on these matters. 
I do not know whether the honourable member had his tongue in his cheek, but he said that the Australian producer of crude oil is receiving more than the overseas producer. Of course this is just ludicrous. We know that in 1970 the Australian price was 14c less than overseas parity, and in September 1973 it was about $1. 62c less. I have been supplied with a list of prices by the Parliamentary Library Statistical Research Service. This shows that today Kuwait oil is $4.96 a barrel - of course, it is of a lower quality than Australian oil; in Saudi Arabia it is $5.18; in the United States of America it is $4.08; in another field in the United States of America it is $4.30; in Venezuela - I do not have the latest figures - in September it was $3.79. In Australia we are receiving $2.06 and yet the honourable member for Eden-Monaro says that the overseas producer is paid less than the Australian producer. That is absolute humbug. 
What the Australian Labor Party has tried to do is to latch on to the statement of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Let me read what was said, because I am afraid that a tremendous amount of misrepresentation has occurred, trying to put into his mouth things that he did not say at all. He said: 
The industry receives an artificially-low market return for crude oil through domestic pricing arrangements. Exploration activity is also restricted by high interest rates, capital inflow restrictions and uncertainty over government policy. Confidence is low. In a world of intense competition for energy exploration resources, Australia is missing out. Exploration must be increased through a combination of price incentives through the market and some direct Government assistance where practical. 
All that is completely factual. It is a fact that we are missing out and that exploration is decreasing. He advocated that there should be a review of the broad domestic pricing structure. He said: 
At present Australian crude oil produced from domestic reserves is subject to a price agreement which limits returns to producers and subsidises consumers at price levels considerably below world parity. 
All that is completely factual. A review could disclose many things but a review does not mean that, as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said, the Country Party's policy would lead to a doubling of the price of petrol. Did honourable members ever hear such complete rot and nonsense in their lives? I think that we would have to reach $20 or 
S25 a barrel instead of the $2 we are paying today to double the price. I have not worked it out, nor has anyone else, because that is such a stupid statement that no one but the Minister could make it. 
No one has said that there would be an increase, but if there were an increase of SI a barrel I am told by the Library Research Service that this would mean an increase of 1.9c in the price of petrol. Other people have suggested that it would be a little higher, perhaps up to 2.5c. So it is quite ludicrous to say that increases in the price of petrol will double the price of petrol, because that is not happening. Where the increase in the price of petrol comes from is from governments such as the present Labor Government which have increased enormously the price just by putting on the 5c and by reducing the price support which kept the price of petrol in country areas to not more than 4c a gallon above city prices. The more remote a country dweller is, the more he has to pay. So a review could come up with alternatives. It could say that the present price of crude was inadequate and it could make recommendations. On the other hand, it could advocate a 2-tier system. 
There is no doubt that under the present system some companies with large reserves and which have been extremely lucky in discovering those reserves are able to make adequate profits. Of course, the Minister for Labour had his usual shot at the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Undoubtedly BHP is doing extremely well and would continue to do well under the present price but let us not forget - I do not guarantee this figure, but it was given to me by the research section of the Library - that BHP to date has made profits of S98m from oil. But it had an outlay of $598m in order to make that profit. This might be all right for BHP, but what happens to the small fields. Firstly, people are not inclined to search for oil and, secondly, there are some fields which have been found which are not commercial on today's prices. This is where a review could well advocate a 2-tier pricing system. At present we know we have oil at Mereenie which is not regarded as commercial on today's prices. We know we have oil at Tirrawarra which is not commercial on today's prices. We know that Moonie will go out of production at today's price very much sooner that it would if it could get anywhere near world parity. It has only a small amount of oil left. If it goes out of production quite a bit of oil will be left in the ground. I think we should look at the system. Some of the small Australian producers say: 'Why should the Government pay the Arabs a lot more than it is prepared to pay good Australians? So Australians have 2 interests, firstly, to obtain the cheapest possible fuel, and secondly, to maintain an adequate search. The search for oil now is not adequate. Even the Minister admits it. Yesterday he replied to a question that I had on notice, and he admits that it is inadequate. He says that all he will do about it is establish the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. We know well that under the Government's present set-up the Authority will not be established. In other words, the Minister will not do anything about it except to run down the search throughout Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Was the Minister for Minerals and Energy correctly reported when he was alleged to have said: The Country Party's oils and minerals policy would result in a doubling of the price of petrol'? Us it not correct that an increase of $1 a barrel in the price of crude oil would increase the price of super-grade petrol by about 2.75c a gallon? If this is so, would not the price of Australian crude oil have to go from $2.06 a barrel to approximately $22 a .barrel for the price of petrol to be doubled? What makes him think that the Australian Country Party was advocating such an increase? Why did he say yesterday of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd that its profits on oil are tax free at this stage, while he knows - or at least he should know - that the holding company pays full company tax, and the shareholders of course are fully taxed on their dividends? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Are Australia's reserves of all petroleum products adequate for all foreseeable requirements. 
Is there a need for an increase over the curent level of petroleum exploration. 
If so, what measures has the Government taken to increase the level of private exploration for petroleum products. 
What further measures of encouragement are proposed. 
Were any of the following measures of the present Government introduced in order to encourage private exploration for petroleum products:(a) the termination of the oil-search subsidy, (b) the removal of taxation deductions for subscriptions to the shares of companies engaged in oil search, (c) the ban on farm-ins by overseas companies, (d) the imposition of the requirement to deposit, firstly, 25 per cent and, subsequently, 331/3 per cent of overseas funds entering the country with the Reserve Bank, (e) the decision to acquire natural gas at the wellhead and resell it at uniform prices throughout Australia and (f) the ending of tax-free status for dividends paid from income derived from the sale of petroleum products. 
In order to frighten the public into believing that it was losing control of its minerals and energy resources, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  concocted a figure which purported to show that 62 per cent of Austraia's mining industry was 'overseas owned or controlled'. Most people took this to mean overseas owned. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  fell into this trap and used the figure '62 per cent overseas owned' at last year's Australian Mining Industry Council annual dinner. He was of course corrected immediately. 
But the Minister believed that if, Goebbels like, he continued to use this figure, the public would eventually come to believe it. Unfortunately for the Minister in the last 10 days 2 different expert sources have shown the Minister's figures to be a travesty of the truth.  Mr Noakes,  an Assistant Director of the Bureau pf Mineral Resources, in a discussion paper on Australian equity within the mineral industry, which was tabled in this House on 21 March, gives the overall overseas equity weighted by value of output1 as 35 per cent. He does this using the definition which the Bureau of Mineral Resources has always used of the mineral industry, namely, mining and processing of minerals. He points to the absurdity of the basis used by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics which, for example, 'placed the mine and concentration mills at Mt Isa in the mining industry and the copper smelter, lead smelter and zinc oxide plant on the same mine lease, as well as the copper refinery at Townsville in the manufacturing industry. 
Under the definition of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics overseas ownership is in value of output slightly higher -42.4 per cent in 1968. No newer figures were available to the Bureau of Census and Statistics, but  Mr Noakes  said that the level of Australian equity would be expected to have fallen rather than risen since 1968. So there you are. You can take your pick. Overseas equity is 35 per cent if you use the definition of mining used by the Bureau of Mineral Resources in, for example, the Australian mineral industry quarterly and annual review and other publications. Or it is 42.4 per cent if you use the definition of the Bureau of Census and Statistics on value of output, or 44 per cent on value of production. And to back up this figure the  President  of the Australian Mining Industry Council announced on Monday night of last week that the figure available to the Australian Mining Industry Council only, because it refers to 1973 returns not yet available to either of the Bureaus, is 39.6 per cent of the industry's production attributable to overseas ownership. 
How then did the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Prime Minister push this up to a figure of 62 per cent. It was done simply by taking the worst figure available - 44 per cent - and adding to it companies in which a foreign company held a 25 per cent or greater interest. It was then deemed to be foreign controlled', even if it was 75 per cent Australian owned and completely Australian managed. This of course is ludicrous. Thus this 62 per cent figure is shown to be quite unrealistic and fictitious. I want to make only 2 points. Firstly, we should not forget that the final control of any mining project lies in the hands of the Commonwealth Government, without whose permission to export no company - overseas or local - could proceed. If the Minister complains about overseas control he is in fact complaining that he is unable or unwilling to use the extensive power that he has available to him. Secondly, when the Minister for Minerals and Energy answered my question in the House on 12 March which led to the tabling of these papers, he said, to the plaudits of his backbench followers: 

 Mr Noakes, who was responsible for the report, will be shown when I produce it and table it in this House, to have agreed that probably the ownership and control overseas of Australian assets is in excess of the 62 per cent that was quoted. 
Honourable members will have had an opportunity of reading  Mr Noakes'  paper fully. They will note that nowhere in the paper does he use a figure of 62 per cent. He uses only 2 basic figures - Bureau of Mineral Resources figure in 1971 of 35 per cent overseas ownership and a Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics figure in 1968 of 42.4 per cent. How can he be taken to have agreed that there has been an increase in a figure that he has never used, and with which he is almost certainly in disagreement? This is just another example for which  Mr Connor  is becoming famous - or should I say infamous - of handling the truth carelessly. 
In the short time available to me I propose to deal with only one aspect of overseas investment, namely, the search for and production of crude oil in Australia, and the crass, ignorant and destructive policies on overseas investment being pursued by the present Minister for Minerals and Energy in this field. When the Labor Government came to power in December 1972, it fell heir to the oil search and oil production policies initiated by the previous Liberal-Country Party Administration. Let us take a look - a hard-headed look - at those policies and disregard temporarily the stupid, doctrinaire Connor approach which long-term threatens our self sufficiency in oil which has enabled us to ride out the prevalent world crisis in oil supplies better than most countries in the world. 
It is about time some frank speaking was done. Let us use the Esso-BHP operation in Bass Strait to illustrate my point, because it has been the main target of the Minister's malice and hatred. Australia has, throughout its history, been plagued with periodic balance of payments problems. Our problem was to build up funds overseas to pay for imports. One of the major items of our import bill was oil. Our commonsense reasoning was, firstly, if oil was found in Australia we would save heavily on our import bill and, secondly, we would not be at the mercy of overseas producers. 
So, we took steps to encourage oil search by incentives. And one of the things we got was what the Minister would call a foreign controlled company - Esso-BHP. But we ako got, firstly, access through Esso to technological ability and know-how that was and still is, available to Australia on a limited scale only; secondly, risk capital of $309m from Esso and $189m from the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd without a dollar of taxpayers' money imperilled, and, thirdly, above all we got the Bass Strait oil and gas fields, a cheap source of supply of crude oil, and the knowledge that on known Australian reserves our supplies are assured until at least the early 1980s, and a position of being one of the few countries in the world unaffected by the recent oil crisis. We are currently saving almost $ 1,000m a year in terms of oil imports. 
But what is this stupid man's response, the response of this Minister for Minerals and Energy? Trembling with anger, he points with horror to the $61m over 3 years which Esso has remitted to its parent company in the United States. That is $20m a year. He makes it sound like a lot of money. But is it? Would any Australian object to a service charge of S20m a year in return for what we got - the savings we made in overseas payments, and the freedom from the recent oil crisis? The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  recently revealed in reply to a question from my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  that since Labor has come into power his Department alone has added over 1,800 public servants to its staff, and as a consequence more than $10m annually to the Department's costs. That is only one department. Which is more valuable - public servants producing more paper or ensuring the supplies of a commodity essential to our economy? 
I turn from the past to the future - a bleak longterm future for Australian production of crude oil in the rigid, incredibly shortsighted policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy are accepted by his colleagues, who appear to have been mesmerised by his misinformation. What has the Minister achieved? Firstly, he has prodouced a situation in which companies like BHP and Esso and Australian companies are turning from Australia to search for oil outside Australia, taking with them the technical knowledge that Australia was amassing. Their confidence is being undermined. Who can blame them with a Minister so supremely malicious or ignorant that he accuses BHP virtually of evading taxation when he well knows - or should know and has since been forced to admit - that it has made a $32m provision for current income tax on oil profits. 
Secondly, he wrongly states that only 40 offshore wells have been drilled in the past 10 years, when the figure up to the end of 1973 was 189 by mobile rigs with a further 100 development wells drilled from off-shore platforms. Thirdly, his own policies have led to a reduction in on-shore drilling for oil from 85 wells in 1972 to a proposed 36 wells this year, while we have now only one marine seismic vessel left in Australia. Fourthly, he says that government exploration is to be substituted for the efforts of people - both Australian and overseas - who have a reservoir of technology, experience and knowledge which would be extremely difficult for any govern ment department to match. But, as the  president  of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association said last week, what are the alternatives for Australia? We can use public money to explore for oil and develop it, or we can spend public money importing our oil from overseas, or we can use other people's risk money and share the rewards, if any, on a sensible basis. 
When it comes to encouraging the search for oil in Australia the Minister immediately reveals that he has all the imagination and the capacity for commonsense thinking of a block of concrete. In the search for oil and minerals the Minister says: 'I do not want any overseas money to come into Australia in any circumstances.' Even the Australian ownership which he says he is aiming at turns out to be not Australian shareholders' ownership but Australian Government ownership. So the inevitable result of the policies the Minister has been trying to justify is coming to pass. People who have vast technical knowledge plus some risk capital and who are not wanted in Australia are going overseas to where they are wanted. Over 270 Australian geologists recently applied for 9 jobs advertised in Brazil. The following list supplied to me 3 months ago by a Western Australian firm of consulting technologists is a list of companies in Australia which are reducing their search for minerals and oil in Australia: 
Tenneco (United States) - mid 1973 closed down completely in Australia. 
International Nickel - laid off nearly all staff and now on a watching brief since late 1973. 
Amax Exploration - laid off 40 per cent of staff Sept 1973, mostly Australian. 
Mitsubishi Metal Mining - senior technical staff returning to Japan, one observer remaining. 
Trend Exploration, United States - minerals and oil - stopping all work in Australia, transferring activity to Indonesia. 
Freeport of Australia Inc. - stopped exploration in Australia. 
Pechiney - senior staff returned to France; remainder on uranium only. 
Anaconda - recalling staff to United States of America and transferring Australians to South Africa. 
Kennecott - concentrating activity in Indonesia - holding operation only in Australia. 
Cominco - transferring activity to Philippines and Indonesia, apart from running Aberfoyle group taken over here. 
Australian Inland Exploration - (Texas Gulf Sulphur) marking time because of 33 per cent deposit clause. 
Consolidated - turning attention to the Philippines. 
Jododex Aust.  -  90 per cent shutdown Nov 1973. 
Small genuine Australian explorers: 
Woods Reef Mines - asbestos production New South Wales - difficulties from revaluation and importation of capital. 
Base Minerals - in voluntary liquidation because of refusal by the Minister to approve a joint venture. 
Endeavour Oil - active almost entirely in South East Asia - recently announced withdrawal from Western Australia, despite share in Forrestonia nickel with Amax. 
Hawkstone Minerals - retained 2 senior technical staff only because of long term contracts. 
Valley Exploration - very small but very effective - closed down because cannot get joint venture approved, or get cash back to continue exploration. 
Minops - joint venture with Tenneco - trying to bring in a tin mine in Tasmania and spending all other effort in Indonesia. 
Alliance Oil and Minerals - minerals shut down about September 1973; oil section continuing with reduced staff. 
I do not doubt that one could continue a good deal further. The search for oil and minerals must go on. It is vital. But the man who has the ministerial responsibility for seeing it goes on is discouraging it and is crippling it. He is a national tragedy. Let us hope that Australia does not pay too high a price for his occupancy of this key post. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What were the total annual stamp sales from the following post offices during 1973, or for the last 12 months for which figures are available: 
Coolamon, (b) Ganmain, (c) Grong Grong, (d) Howlong, (e) Mulwala, (f) Oaklands, (g) Tarcutta, (h) The Rock, (i) Urana and (j) Walla Walla. 
What were the costs of operating these post offices, and how were these costs made up, e.g. wages, maintenance, repairs, etc. 
What additional services to the public, such as collection of telephone accounts, sale of postal orders, sale of tax stamps, collection of wireless and television fees, bulk postage rate, income derived as agent for the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Defence Service Homes Commission, were carried nut from these offices. 
The House this afternoon has been absolutely chaotic. It has been turned into a complete farce and a shambles. Suddenly, without any warning or notice, these Bills have been brought on. It is quite certain there will only be a very short time available to discuss the measures. We will not be able to go over the great number of points which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  raised in his second reading speech, during which he rambled in the usual way. Some 15 or 20 points were raised and, of course, one cannot possibly deal with them in the time allowed. 
After all, the guillotine allows us only some 25 minutes of debate on the second reading stage. Yet here we have a Minister who has come forward with all these shibboleths and the Government is not prepared to allow a fair and reasonable debate. The Government is not interested in the 'legislation. In fact, if it were not for the Senate, we would have virtually no debate on any of these measures. So, I say firstly that the Government has turned the House into a complete farce. This is the swan song of one of the most incompetent and hopeless Ministers ever to appear in this chamber. 
 The Minister for Minerals and Energy is the one who is going out. He is the person who has done enormous damage to the mining industry, whether it be mining for minerals or petroleum and whether it be on-shore or off-shore. All of us know what the situation is. We know that since this Government has come into office, mining companies have left Australia. One company after another has gone overseas or has closed down. The amount of drilling that is going ahead is getting less and less. The Minister put out a great splurge which he gave to the Canberra Times' and on the front page of that newspaper appeared the headline 'Drilling Boom Off-shore'. The article pointed out that 54 wells were going to be drilled this year. The information which came from the Minister's office and which was put in this article by David Solomon said that only 40 wells had been drilled in the previous 10 years. We know that that statement was completely inaccurate, yet the information came from the Minister's office. 
The information claiming that 40 wells had been drilled in the last 10 years did not come from the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association. If the Minister likes to read what the Canberra Times' said, he will see that it was given this information from the Minister's office. When representatives of the newspaper asked whether the Minister's staff could check this information again - because they realised it was completely inaccurate - they were told that the Minister's office could not supply its own details. Is not this absolute incompetence? We know that during this period 189 wells were drilled off-shore by mobile platforms and another 100 wells drilled off-shore from fixed platforms, so that by this time more than 300 wells have been drilled off-shore. Yet the Minister in this great splurge of a hand-out to David Solomon said that only 40 wells had been drilled in the last 10 years. This shows the complete incompetence of the Minister. Of course, we all know that under this Minister everything has gone backwards, everything has gone to pieces, whether it is in the field of mining for minerals or in the search for petroleum. We find that only a little over half as much drilling took place in 1973 as occurred in 1972. Drilling in 1972 amounted to almost one million feet, but in 1973 the figure was only about 550,000 feet. Only 72 wells reached total depth in 1973 as against 134 wells in 1972. Everything that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has touched has gone sour because of this extraordinary attitude of the Minister that it is better to keep anything in the ground rather than let anyone make a pound out of it. 
I will tell you about overseas ownership. The Minister is trying to make a great song and dance out of his claim that 62 per cent of mining in Australia was overseas owned or controlled. Well, he brought in the controls.  His  Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not even bring in the controls. He did not understand this, and he said that 62 per cent of Australian mining was overseas owned. However, of course, he was corrected on that. Only in the last week we have seen this proved completely wrong. The Minister's statement gives a completely wrong impression. It is a manufactured figure, created to try to put the fear of God into Australians to make them think they are losing control of their own resources. Of course, we know that even the Minister's own Department could not put up with this and, as a result, a top-level man from the Bureau of Mineral Resources produced figures showing that only 35 per cent of Australian mineral production was in the hands of overseas companies. Of course that is not the point. The point is that the Minister has complete control. He can prevent any exports. What he is saying is that he is too incompetent or too inactive to see that this control is exercised. The Australian Mining Industry Council came out with an almost identical figure. It said that 39.5 per cent of Australia's mineral resources or mining companies were in overseas hands, and the percentage is falling. 
The Minister said that small companies were under-capitalised. Of course they are undercapitalised. Before he came to office they were able to undertake a quite large program. Mining has decreased. Drilling for oil offshore has decreased. It is absolutely hopeless to .drill for oil on-shore. With some 22 or 23 rigs available in Australia, at one stage only one was active. The Minister is responsible for this situation because of the terms and conditions he has imposed. Everyone has lost confidence in the completely unacceptable situation in Australia. Small companies are undercapitalised because they cannot get finance. The Minister says: 'Only let this Bill through and we will be able to help everyone'.. He mentioned a figure of $50m to $60m. That is not mentioned in the Bill, of course. It is only his idea of what finance might be available. Even if that amount were made available, how far would it go? In Australia we require an average, annual expenditure in oil search of $200m if we are to get self-sufficiency and to retain self-sufficiency - that is, given a normal sort of expectancy of discoveries. It is interesting to note that there has not been one major new discovery of any sort made under the present Government. 
How far would $50m or $60m go? Firstly, it would have to be divided between mining and petroleum, so amounts of $25m to $30m would be available for each. That is a drop in the bucket. By withdrawing all taxation concessions, subsidies, and other forms of encouragement the Government has dried up or reduced enormously the funds available from private enterprise. It says: 'We will jump in and fill that area'. Of course we know it cannot fill it and could not possibly fill it with that amount of money. All that is happening is that at a time when overseas countries are doing everything they can to attract people to do more drilling, Australia is seeing rigs going overseas. Even Australian companies are going overseas and having success there. One is glad to note that they are having success, but these companies should be drilling in Australia. People say to me: 'Why would I be bothered drilling in a banana republic like Australia? Surely we are better off if we go to Indonesia, Malaysia or Singapore'. We all know that foreign capital is welcomed in Singapore; not like in Australia where it is shunned. They can drill in South Vietnamese waters, Korean waters or in the Philippines. Some Australian firms are going as far afield as Turkey. But they will not drill in Australia, or they are drilling less in Australia. 
The Minister has gone out of his way to see that even the small amount of drilling that is proceeding in Australia is reduced. Recently we had an instance where there were 6 applications for farm-ins. Everyone knows that this is a situation where if a company is unable to drill all its area it comes to an arrangement with another company which undertakes the farm-in. 
They do not have to hand it back now. We want more drilling. What happened in the case of Abrolhos Oil NL? We know that Esso had a floating rig and it was going to drill for Abrolhos. The Minister does not want drilling; he wants to prevent it. The result was that the Esso rig left Australian waters and has gone to South-East Asia. It will never return. For all we know a number of holes that would have been drilled might have resulted in the discovery of oil which we so desperately need. What happened on the North West Shelf? Exactly the same thing happened. A number of applications for farm-ins were rejected by the Minister. One of them involved the very great company Mount Isa Mines Ltd, a company which is largely Australian owned. Of course it has a large amount of overseas capital because at the time when Mount Isa mines were first discovered it was impossible to get anyone to put up the necessary funds. The area was an enormous distance from population centres. Australians tried to start to develop the area but could not do so. A British company took it over and it was not able to do the work. Eventually a strong American company took over the area and worked it to the great benefit of Australia. That company has complete Australian management. I do not think one overseas person would be found at top management level in that firm. Yet this was a firm which wanted to undertake oil search and the Minister prevented it doing so. This is an extraordinary situation, He says that companies cannot prospect all the areas they have. He mentioned the Woodside-Burmah company in particular. If such companies cannot prospect, surely the thing to do is to let some other company assist with the prospecting. This Minister apparently wants to make certain- 
The people of Australia have more than a half share because, as the Minister well knows, anything from between 54 per cent to 60 per cent of the profits of a successful company come to the Government by way of royalties and company taxation. If the money is repatriated overseas there is the withholding tax. There are many ways by which Australia benefits and the people do not have to pay out money as risk capital. A LiberalCountry Party government would never spend taxpayers' money as risk capital looking for something which it is extremely unlikely would be found. We believe that this is an area in which private enterprise should engage with assistance from government and with close co-operation with government. 
The Minister quoted from a policy speech. I am glad he did. It has not yet become policy of course but that would not worry the Minister. He said that members of the Opposition were died in the wool private enterprise supporters. We certainly are. We always have been. We believe that in the main private enterprise is more successful than government enterprise. It is true, as the Minister says, that there are many overseas countries which have their own mining and oil drilling companies. We know this, but in most cases they are not as efficient as private enterprise. What is required is a tremendous amount of technology which it is difficult for State companies to acquire. Many government owned and State owned companies have not proved to be particularly effective. We believe that private enterprise with government encouragement should carry out the search for oil and minerals. Most of the profits would come to the government in taxation. 
The Minister said that oil is particularly profitable. Of course he looks at the WoodsideBurmah company. It has not yet taken a penny out of the ground but it has spent an enormous sum. It has had some good gas discoveries but it does not have any commercial discoveries yet. In time that company will start to make profits. The Minister also looks at the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd - an extremely lucky company which, in conjunction with Esso, has discovered and has been able to produce oil and gas from the Gippsland area. But we never hear from the Minister anything about all the other 45 to 50 companies, some of which have invested vast sums of money and have been completely discouraged because overall Australia is not highly successful from the viewpoint of oil search. Its rating is well below the world rating. 
Australia has had large gas discoveries. This is encouraging because undoubtedly that gas will be used, but at present Australia is short of oil. We want to do everything possible to see that the search for oil is stepped up, but it is certain that while we have the dead hand of a Minister who believes in government control and in preventing and discouraging anyone else from engaging in oil search, there will be no acceleration of the search for oil. This year again the figures show that the number of wells programmed to be drilled is very slightly ahead of the number actually drilled last year. But as all the wells that are programmed are not drilled the number actually drilled probably will finish up about the same as the number for 1973 which, as I have said already, is well below the number that we need. We ought to be aiming not at the 1972 figure but at a figure a good deal higher than that. It is all very well to say that oil is profitable. One can say that about one company in Australia which has been extremely successful. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy tried to misrepresent the position of our colleagues in the Australian Country Party. He said that they believe that there should be an increase in the price of oil. They did not say that the price should be stepped up, as I pointed out previously, but of course the Minister has learned nothing and forgotten nothing, and therefore he continues irrespective of the fact that we had a debate here in which it was pointed out to him that he does not have a receptive mind so he could not receive this. In the debate it was clearly stated that there should be a review of the price of crude oil. As I pointed out, such a review could come up with a number of alternatives. Of course it might say that the general price of Australian crude should go up. Even if it did say that, there is no reason why the Government would have to accept that view. Nevertheless that is something which the Government will have available to it when it makes its decision, which it must make in September of next year. The review might say that there should be a 2-tier system of pricing crude oil in Australia. Under that system the big profitable wells would continue to be paid for their oil at the present price or at a price of that order. The smaller wells - we know that there are fields in Australia today which cannot be developed commercially at the present price - could receive a higher price. After all, we have Tirrawarra in north east South Australia and Mer.rinie in the Palm Valley area near Alice Springs. These are two relatively small fields which cannot become commercial at present prices of oil. Yet the Government is agreeing to buy crude oil from overseas at far above the Australian price. It does not mind paying an Arab or an Indonesian far more than it will pay an Australian company. 
 They are. We want local production and we want a price at which local producers can produce. Of course another thing that will happen in the quite near future is that two of the small fields in Queensland will cease production because they are not economic at the current prices. When they cease production they will leave the oil in the ground for ever because it will not be profitable to re-open the field. They will leave at least one million barrels. I am informed that one company, if it gets successful secondary recovery production, could well get an additional 4 million to 5 million barrels. But that will not come about at today's prices because this is a very small marginal field. Surely these are the sorts of things that ought to be looked at in a review. But let the Government not try to tell us that it is the policy of the Australian Country Party or of any other Party that there should be a massive increase in the price- 
 Just read the document. I know that the honourable member might find some difficulty with this. But if he looks at the document he will see that it says that there should be a review. I have said what an awful mess the present Government is making of its minerals, energy and petroleum policy. Thank God, this is the swan song of a Minister who, as I have already said, is probably one of the most incompetent we have seen but who has done an enormous amount of damage to the Australian mining industry, damage which will not be overcome the moment there is a change of government. It takes a long time before some of these things are forgotten and forgiven, and it will take a long time before we get the petroleum search industry and the mining industry back into full production again. This we are determined to do. 
There is an extremely short time for us to debate this highly important Bill. This Bill is one of the most incredible pieces of legislation that I have ever seen. As a result, it is totally unacceptable to the Opposition. Someone said that there was no need to debate this Bill again because nothing new had happened since we debated it last time. I say that quite a lot of new matters have come to light since this Bill was first debated. Firstly, of course, the State mines Ministers have asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy repeatedly to call them together so that they can discuss this legislation. It has a vital bearing on the States because it would tend to undermine completely the State authority in this field. The Commonwealth Government would have power to come in anywhere, irrespective of title - it would not matter if a person were mining or drilling or producing oil - and set down its rig and start to produce from the same field that a person has established and from which he is producing. It could mine virtually anything. The Authority's functions are set out in the Bill and they show the complete powers it has. 
As I have said, the State mines Ministers wanted the Minister for Minerals and Energy to call together the Australian Mining Council, which in the past did good work but which this Minister has refused to meet at all because he is undoubtedly afraid. He knows perfectly well that he would have no answer to the Ministers. Until he does have that answer, this Bill will not go through in another place. The State mines Ministers will meet anyway. The Minister for Minerals and Energy ought to attend that meeting but he is afraid and he will not. We know this will be a meeting of only State mines Ministers. Of course they are not all Liberal by any means. 
Another thing which has happened since this legislation first went through this Mouse is that there has been time for a deep study of the matter by very many people. Anyone who has been interested in this subject will have read a number of assessments of it, particularly by those people who. will be so vitally affected by it, and also by the States. In the short time available to me I should like to read a paper which the Victorian Premier has sent on the 
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973. He states: 
A quick reading of this Bill has shown that it raises many grave questions in the constitution field, in the area of State rights, and even of its own validity as a viable piece of legislation. 
I have therefore obtained an opinion of the Bill from my Solicitor-General, and I set out below, for your information, the main points of his submission to me. 
At the outset, I should say that the Bill appears to be an attempt by the Australian Government to go as far as it conceivably can into the mining field and into the field of commerce associated with mining. We doubt whether the Government's legal advisers are confident that it would survive challenge, and it may be that the idea is to see, from the litigation which will undoubtedly follow the passage of the Bill, what the outer limits of power appear to be. 
The Bill sets up a statutory authority and purports to confer upon it extremely wide powers, not only in respect of the exploration for and the mining of petroleum and minerals, but also the participation by the authority with other persons in such activities. 
In effect, it seeks to set up a national mining venture and purports to empower the authority to carry on its operations not only in Australia but in any other place. 
It can be argued that Clause 9 of the Bill limits the performance of the authority's functions to various specified places and matters, e.g., in a territory; in relation to the natural resources of the submarine areas of the Australian land mass; for purposes facilitating territorial, interstate and overseas trade; for the purposes of defence; and finally, any associated areas. 
I am afraid that I will not have time to finish my remarks on this aspect. He concludes by saying that there is no doubt that it is unconstitutional. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The time allotted for the second reading of the Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I desire to ask a question of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade. Is one of his duties in the economic field the implementation of the report by the Priorities Review Staff? If so, is the Minister aware that this report made a strong attack on some of the policies being pursued by his colleague, the Minister for Minerals and Energy? How will the Minister for Overseas Trade ensure that these sound recommendations are implemented when his colleague has so far completely ignored them and refers to the Review as 'impertinent'? 
Tonight I want to draw the attention of the House to a phrase which has been used by the Government recently, a phrase which should not be allowed to pass unnoticed or unquestioned. The phrase is: The Government is creating the most effective, mobile and professional defence force in Australia's peacetime history'. It is a good phrase. I should know for I coined it when I was Minister for Defence. For the Government to continue to use it when it knows that statement to be completely inaccurate is inexcusable. Let us look at how 
Australia's defences have slumped since December 1972 and it will soon become apparent how inaccurate this claim really is. 
The strength of our defence forces is measured by a number of factors - the number in the armed forces, the number in the reserve and their quality and training, the quality and quantity of equipment, the state of bases, the strength of industrial backup. The story of the numbers in the armed forces is well known. When I handed over to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  the Army had 41,290 men and today it has 30,080, or 11,210 less. The Navy had 17,134 men and today it has 16,228, or 906 less. The Air Force had 22,769 men and today it has 21,551, or 1,218 less. 
One of the very famous squadrons of the Royal Australian Air Force has been disbanded, of course. The Citizen Military Forces had 26,578 members and today it has 19,994, or 6,584 less. The Regular Army Reserve had 30,000 members and today it has about 20,000 or 10,000 less. We do not know what is the state of the Army Cadet Corps because we have been told that schools will lose their per capita education grants if they have compulsory army cadet corps. I have not been able to discover whether this is correct but if it is it is very bad. In equipment, it is of interest to note that so far during the 18 months in government the present Government has not ordered one new piece of equipment for any of the armed services. It has taken delivery of some equipment which we ordered such as the Fills and the Chinooks. It said, in a late pre-election bid for votes that it would order some other new equipment but up until now there have been no new firm orders. 
As all the rest of the equipment is now 18 months older it must be more obsolete or obsolescent. Take the Air Force Mirage fighters, for example. When ordered they were extremely good, but with the passage of time their quality as an air superiority weapon has been superseded by newer aircraft. We had their replacement on a 5-year rolling program. The present Government decided not to proceed with this program, abolished, as I have said, one of the famous Royal Australian Air Force fighter squadrons and cut back desperately on flying time. Then, to add insult to injury, it sent the Minister for Defence and a number of hangers-on in an RAAF 
BAC111 to Sweden to see the aircraft they had decided not to buy. 
How much longer can we afford to see these planes gradually drifting behind the performance of other nations' front line fighters? Surely the answer is that if we do not intend to replace them in the reasonably near future we should set about upgrading them. A vastly improved performance can be achieved at a not unreasonable cost. The Dassault company has already produced modification plans for both the engine and the air frame of the Mirage while the company making the Matra, air-to-air missile has improved the performance of this missile considerably. We should modernise these weapons immediately. Two years ago I announced that we were carrying out trials of 2 types of equipment with a view to their early purchase for the Services. These were the army tank, where the choice lay between the German Leopard and the M65, and the Neptune long range reconnaissance aircraft replacement, where the choice lay between the United States Orion and the British Nimrod. Now, 2 years later we still appear to be no further advanced towards a decision in either field. 
Does this lead one to believe that the Government is creating the most effective, mobile and professional defence force in Australia's peacetime history. It certainly does not. But the Service most disadvantaged by the new Government has been the Navy. Before we went out of office a decision had been made to proceed with the development of 3 DDL destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy at Williamstown. This decision was cancelled by the incoming Labor Government and nothing done until just shortly before the general election, when .it was announced that we were to purchase 2 patrol frigates from the United States. I point out to the House that the patrol frigate was looked at by the Royal Australian Navy and rejected as inadequate to meet its requirements. I refer honourable members to the report presented to this House in August 1972 which said that other navies were producing ships of severely limited capability with very particular roles to fulfil, such as the patrol frigate being planned at that time by the United States as a mid-ocean escort with capabilities directly related to that task, and the British Type 21. 
The DDL, as finally planned by the Navy, would have had a much better performance. The Navy of course has also lost other ships planned for it, such as the logistic cargo ship and the fast combat support ship It has also lost, for the present anyway, the Western Australian naval support facility at Cockburn Sound, the development of which was proceeding with all speed. The facility was and still .s urgently needed by the Royal Australian Navy and its allies as we do not at present possess a naval base on the Indian Ocean. The Army has also had a reduction in the number of light helicopters ordered for it - from 84 to 56. 
The Minister for Defence, of course, has broken 2 specific promises. The first one was a government commitment to spend at least 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence. Last year, after having been apparently rolled in Cabinet be told us that the Government would budget for an expenditure of only 2.9 per cent. As we all know, that it is impossible, to spend all the money budgeted for and as inflation is running at 16 per cent a year or more, the actual expenditure is likely to be not 3.5 per cent but about 2.6 per cent of the gross national product. The second broken promise was that whatever destroyers were ordered for the Royal Australian Navy would be built in Australia. No wonder morale in the Services has dropped to an all time low. The only explanation that has been advanced to me as to how the Minister for Defence can claim that he is building the most effective, mobile and professional force in Australia's peace time history is a very devious legal quibble. It is said that since we had troops in Vietnam from about 1964 until 1972 we were then at war so Australia's peace time history ended in 1963 when perhaps our forces were not as large or well equipped as they are today. But this argument is an attempt to deceive the public who know that our Forces are not a patch on the size, quality or morale of the Forces we handed over to Labor in 1972. I hope the House and the country will take note of this utter disregard of the nation's defences by the Labor Government. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to make a personal explanation concerning the Hansard record of yesterday, Thursday, 30 July. A mistake has been made in the voting record which I wish to correct. The House divided at approximately 9.41 p.m. when the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  whose speech I had heard had concluded speaking and while my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was attempting to get the call. He was gagged by the Government Whip, the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls).  I recall thinking at the time that it was most unfair of the Government to gag the honourable member for Mackellar because he had for many years exhibited a great interest in transport  -  I served with him on the Government members rail standardisation Committee - so I voted against the question moved by the honourable member for Bonython: 'That the question be now put.' My vote was not recorded with those of honourable members who voted against the motion. 
Immediately after this vote was taken the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  took the Chair, and I was happy when he called first the honourable member for Mackellar. I was glad when the honourable member for Mackellar congratulated the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on his intention to complete the standard gauge pro posals. After listening to the speech of the honourable member for Mackellar I heard the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  attempt to get the call, but the Government Whip again moved 'That the question be now put', and I again voted with the noes, which vote was so recorded at 9.58 p.m. I have no doubt whatsover that I was in the House during both these ballots. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who normally sits next to me in the chamber has confirmed that he saw me sitting in my normal position during this division. A mistake obviously has been made and I ask that my name be recorded as being present during both these divisions. 
-A great deal has been said during the debate today about the so-called Fitzgerald report. The Government would be extremely naive if it were to adopt a report such as that as holy writ. It is a report which was prepared quite hurriedly by one man. Unfortunately, however genuine the person who prepared the report may have been, it has been used as a political stunt by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Obviously there are very many errors in it. It needs a critical and impartial assessment by, I would suggest, such bodies as the Bureau of Mineral Resources, which does not seem to have very much to do at present, and the Treasury as well as academics and accountants. It might even be a good idea if a Senate select committee were to have a look at it. It is no use our debating something here until we get the true facts about these things. 
I have seen suggestions that the Fitzgerald report is completely at variance with the facts. For example, mention is made in it of but no amount is added for what the mining companies pay in the way of State royalties. That amounts to $263m. That was not counted in the Fitzgerald report's final additions. There has been a saving on the provision of infrastructure. Another $240m at the very least should be added for such infrastructure. Had the mining companies not done so the Commonwealth, the States or local government authorities would have had to provide that sort of infrastructure. Something like $150m has been paid in taxation on mining dividends. The withholding tax on interest and dividends could amount to $40m. Perhaps that may be a little high. I want to know where the truth lies. I do not want to have to rely on something that was hurriedly assembled for the Minister to leak to the Press 15 days before he made a copy of it available to me or to anybody else so that the Press could get a good run out of it. I and one of my colleagues were criticised for not having read it but how could we read it when we could not even get hold of a copy of it ? 
One could go on. Revenue is generated by the industry to the order of something like $165m through a tax on private royalties, additional payroll tax and additional income tax. That is extra revenue over and above what would normally be paid. So that all told it looks as if the mining industry may have made a contribution to welfare during the 5-year period referred to of something to the order of $700m and not, as the Minister has claimed, as if a contribution has been made to the mining industry of $55m. But again what is needed is an impartial assessment. Let us not forget, however, that the laws under which the companies now operate were introduced in 1916. Many of them were transferred from the States and they have been worked over by every government since. In particular, the late Ben Chifley altered the laws quite considerably. Many of the laws now applying taxation, for instance, to the companies concerned were laws implemented by Ben Chifley. 
Tonight we are discussing a Bill to set up an Authority which will explore for and develop our petroleum and mineral resources. We of the Opposition, of course, are completely opposed to the Bill. We are not opposed to a government organisation competing on equal terms with private enterprise nor is private enterprise opposed to such a government organisation. But this Bill, if it passes this Joint Sitting and the High Court, will give a government instrumentality enormous powers possessed by no other instrumentality, public or private. There is a vast gulf between the 2 major parties of this Parliament. One, of course, stands for private enterprise and the other stands for socialism. We believe in just rewards and returns for the nation through taxation, royalties, payments for leases and all those many other ways in which the nation gets its return. We believe taxpayers funds should not be used on speculative, high risk enterprises. If funds of this size are available to the Government they should be used in areas to which private enterprise is not attracted such as social security, child care centres and the abolition of the means test. 
Under our system of encouragement mining flourished. Oil, gas and minerals were found in vast quantities. But look at the situation today. It really is appalling. During my last year as Minister for National Development in 1969, 263 oil wells were drilled to total depth. Last calendar year, under the present encumbent, the number dropped to just over a quarter of the 1969 figure namely 73. The footage drilled for the 6 months to June last was slightly less than half that drilled during the last full calendar year. So, it looks as though this year the amount of drilling undertaken will be even less than that of last year. And goodness knows, that was little enough. Twenty one rigs are available for drilling on-shore hi Australia's 3 million square miles- few enough by any standard. Only 2 of these rigs are working today, while a third is listed as active, meaning that it may start drilling again sometime. Four rigs are drilling off-shore, compared to the 7 rigs that were drilling off-shore when we went out of office. Recently when I asked one senior oil executive how the future looked, he said: 'Grim'. But of course he used the great Australian adjective before the word 'grim'. 
Let me repeat that, under our system of encouragement, mining flourished. Oil, gas and minerals were found in vast quantities. True, some of our resources got into the hands of overseas owners. Was this such a tragedy? We received royalties and taxes. We had exports in vast quantities and as a result our overseas reserves built up. Those reserves have now been run down at such a rate that the Government had to take panic action today. We had a reduced bill for our imports. Oil alone would cost us some $300m a year if we had to import it from overseas, but of course we have a major self sufficiency which enabled us to avoid rationing when many other countries had to introduce rationing. The state got technologies, employment, access to overseas markets and decentralisationso many things came out of this flourishing mining industry which we left when we went out of office in 1972. Two government instrumentalities, the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Bureau of Statistics, have said that 35 per cent of the mining and minerals industry was overseas owned. But of course the Government have complete control over these companies, as well as over all others. It issues the leases, licences and the permits to the mining companies and determines under what conditions they are issued. Secondly, the Government has control over exports and over imports. It can determine whether the price is adequate and whether the destination is correct before it determines whether it will allow exports. The governments have complete control over taxes and royalties. I mention the fact that the mining industry has paid great amounts in recent yeansome $700m in the last 5 years- and we know that these amounts will be increased now that the deductions available to these companies have mostly been taken up and the companies will now be paying full taxation at a higher rate than they would have paid if they had had no deductions at all. Of course, governments set conditions of employment. Almost all companies in Australia today are Australian managed. 
We had a nourishing industry. But, of course, Labor wants not Australian ownership but State ownership or socialisation. Labor has done everything it could to bring the companies to their knees, and unfortunately the first companies that it has succeeded in bringing to their knees have been small Australian owned companies. Let me list some of the firms that have pulled out recently. Of course, this would be a very short list because there are many more. The firms that have pulled out of oil search in Australia recently include the Gulf, Continental, City Service, Ocean Venture, Sun OU, Union OU- which was the first company to have a commercial field in Australia although West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd was the first company to discover oU- and Tennico companies. Companies which have wound down and are on a care and maintenance basis include the Planet, Tricentrol Marathon OU, Phillips Australian and Canadian Superior companies. More importantly perhaps than anything else, Australian firms or Australian based firms that have gone overseas rather than put up with the Minister's policies- which have been aptly described by some of my colleagues as the policies of a banana republic- because they reckon that when they go overseas they are dealing with governments with which they can deal, which is not the case with this mob, include the Australian OU and Gas, Australian Associated Resources, Alliance, Beach, South Pacific, Endeavour, Broken Hill Pty, Magellan Hartogen and Target companies. Think of how much oU search we would be getting in Australia if these firms were operating in Australia and were not scattered around the world as a result of the actions of the Minister. 
The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
We will consider assistance to the many small companies and syndicates that have used up their capital. 
Why do they need assistance? The answer is, of course, because the Government has discouraged oU search, firstly, by terminating the subsidy; secondly, by terminating the tax deductions for share subscriptions; thirdly, by banning farm-ins; fourthly, by imposing the 25 per cent bank deposit freeze on overseas funds, which it has just had to lift; fifthly, by terminating the tax exemption for petroleum dividends up to the amount of the capital expenditure; sixthly, by the decision to acquire the North- West Shelf gas at the wellhead and, seventhly, by the creation of a general air of apprehension and uncertainty by attacks on the industry and in particular on overseas companies. We aU recall the fantastic statements made by the Minister, such as 'mugs' and 'hillbillies' 'ripping and raping', 'flogging off the north-west' and all that sort of stuff. What magnificent language to come from a Minister of the Crown. 
This Bill seeks to give the Authority sweeping powers of entry and occupation, irrespective of other title to the land. Clause 14(6) states: 
In this section, a reference to land includes a reference to land owned or occupied by a State. 
So, not only private land but also State land is covered. Thus a justice of the peace from anywhere- he might even be from Canberracan issue a warrant allowing the Authority to enter land to explore for or carry on operations for the recovery of minerals. The word ' minerals ' means virtually every substance in the nation. Let me quote its description. The word ' minerals ' is described as sand, clay, stone, earth, gravel, minerals- that is described as 'a naturally occurring substance or mixture of substances'- coal, timber, wood or other materials or other things. Members of this chamber with legal experience would probably say that that would probably cover everything that is likely to be discovered in Australia. So, a justice of the peace, without knowing whether the land is occupied, authorises the Authority to prospect or mine. The Authority, by notice published in the 'Gazette' declares an area of the Australian continental land mass to be an exploration or production area. 
What security of tenure has a State or a company? I invite honourable members and honourable senators to consider State mining operations such as that undertaken at Morwell and company operations at Mt Tom Price, Hamersley and Mt Isa. As I read the Bill, the Authority can not only take over any of those operations but also perform the functions conferred on it 'so as to facilitate trade and commerce with other countries '. There is virtually not one mining company in Australia which is not carrying out commerce or trade with another country. We know that Australian mining companies trade with Japan, and many other countries 
I see that the time available to me in this debate is nearly concluded. I point out that the provisions to which I have just drawn attention mean that a company can be taken over by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. But the Minister seeks even further powers. The Authority can acquire mining undertakings. The Authority can underwrite the issue of shares or debentures. The proposed $50m annually to be spread between the search for and the production of oil and minerals is chicken feed. We need, in the search for oil alone, about $250m annually. The Opposition is totally opposed to this measure. 
Does the Prime Minister recall saying in his 1972 election policy speech that a Labor Government's first help for regional development would be to implement the Victorian decentralisation committee's recommendation that 'centres nominated for accelerated development be recognised for telephone charging purposes as extensions of the metropolitan area whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and the capital charged as for local calls'? Did he go on to say that 'in our first term of office, a Federal Labor Government will concentrate its own initiatives and endeavours on two areas- Albury-Wodonga and Townsville'? Is it a fact that Albury-Wodonga residents, in common with all Australians, have not only not had a decrease in telephone charges since his Government came to office but have had savage increases imposed with more promised? I ask the Prime Minister whether he ever intended to implement this promise, or was it just an election gimmick? 
I should like shortly to add my support to these measures. I hesitate to intrude after the 2 honourable members who have spoken, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  both of whom live in the area and know the great advantages that will be provided by these dams. But I do so because of my great interest in water conservation, which perhaps started when I became Minister for National Development. I do so also to call the attention of the Parliament and the people to the virtually complete lack of support by the Australian Labor Party for water conservation projects. Both of these projects, as of course we know, were initially arranged during the period of government of the Liberal and Country Parties. It is true, of course, that the Ross River Dam second stage which we are now debating is a matter which has received allocation of funds from the Labor Government. But the first stage was arranged by a Liberal-Country Party Government. It was to be financed onethird by the Federal Government by way of grant and two-thirds by the Queensland Government and the Townsville City Council. 
I think all of those who have been associated in any way with or who have visited Townsville regularly realise the great problem that is associated with water conservation in that area. While it has high rainfall during a short period of the year it has very long periods of virtual drought. Therefore, this dam will have 3 advantages. First of all, it will ensure adequate water supplies. The present capacity will be doubled when stage 2 is brought into operation. We know that the supply of water for Townsville is very limited during periods of drought. Secondly, it will act as a flood mitigation storage, with a capacity of some 338,000 acre feet. 
Debate interrupted. 
The third advantage, of course, is the recreation and relaxation facility provided by a large storage of some 338,000 acre feet near the growth centre of Townsville. We have not yet seen the Commonwealth move into Townsville as a growth centre. As I come from the growth centre into which the Commonwealth has moved, let me say to the honourable member for Herbert that he is extremely lucky. Townsville is going ahead now, whereas my centre is yet to go ahead under the growth centre scheme. Perhaps it will do so in the not too distant future. There is no doubt whatever that Townsville is going ahead with great rapidity, with a growth rate of some 8 per cent. As the honourable member for Herbert pointed out, this is due to decisions taken by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I refer to decisions such as that on the setting up of defence installations. I well recall this decision because I was a member of Cabinet at the time. The recommendation from the Department of Defence certainly was not to put the defence installation at Townsville. But the late Harold Holt, who was the Prime Minister at the time and who had at heart the interests of the nation as far as decentralisation was concerned, suggested that the installations be located at Townsville. This was considered and the decision was made. I am sure that it was one of the best decisions on decentralisation ever made. The development of industries concerned with mining and abattoirs, the defence installations, the James Cook University and the Institute of Marine Science, for which the honourable member for Herbert again worked very hard over a long period of time- he must be delighted that that project is going ahead- will increase the size of Townsville and increase the necessity for the construction of this dam to go ahead. The Opposition strongly supports water conservation and strongly supports this project. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government was responsible for bringing in the national water resources development program which has changed the face of Australia. Some $150m was earmarked by our Government for this purpose, and it is interesting to see the effect this has had on our nation. When Labor went out of office in 1 949 the total water storage capacity of all major dams in Australia was 7 million acre feet. By early 1971 this had increased to 32 million acre feet. It was estimated that when all work that was then under construction was completed it would have increased to more than 50 million acre feet. One sees these dams throughout the length and breadth of the country. I must mention first the Fairbairn Dam on the Nogoa. I mention also the Copeton Dam on the Gwydir, the Tailem Bend pipe, the Eyre Peninsula project, the King River project, the salinity dams on the Murray at Barr Creek and Lake Hawthorne, the CressyLongford project, the Kolan project at Bundaberg, the Pike Creek Dam which we started and which the present Government has stopped, the Millewa project and, of course, the greatest of them all, the Ord River project. We advanced money also for the Tasmanian hydro-electric scheme on the Gordon River. 
In its election campaign of 1972 the Labor Party made great play of its water conservation policies. Of course, we know that anyone only had to ask for something and it was included in the document 'It's time'. It is interesting to look back on what the Labor Party said about water conservation in its policy speech for the 1972 election. The speech reads: 
The conservation of water has always been an integral part of Labor's development policies as they affect primary industry. Australia's water needs underline the growing interdependence between city and country. The proper use of the Murray-Darling system is as vital to Adelaide as it is to the Riverina and Sunraysia. The Ross River and Burdekin projects are as vital to Townsville as to Townsville 's hinterland. They will be prime responsibilities of the Conservation and Construction Authority, which will be financed from the $47m which Victoria and New South Wales will pay each year for the next SO years for the Snowy Mountains Scheme. 
I would like to know what has happened to the Conservation and Construction Authority and what has happened to the $47m which was supposed to be spent on it each year. As I said previously, all that the present Government has done is to cancel one project, namely, the Pike Creek project- luckily the 2 States involved realised how essential this project was and they are carrying on the work themselves, although at a reduced rate- and to start one project, the Kinchant project. As I pointed out previously in the House, that project was started in the electorate of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson). 
Yes, the honourable member is correct there. Of course, I have excluded the Dartmouth Dam because that was a project which we had under way. Had it not been for the obstruction of the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  that project would be completed today and probably the dam would be almost full or certainly filling. The position is that that dam is just commencing to be built. What has happened to the request by  Sir Charles  Court for more money for the Ord project? In August 1965, when the present honourable member for Dawson was not a member of this House, he put out a pamphlet on the economic justification of the Ord River project in which he said: 
The additional investment required to expand the project from an irrigable area of 30,000 acres to 200,000 acres will generate increased benefits significantly in excess of increased costs. 
That is an interesting comment. Of course, he could say that when he did not have responsibility for these matters, but today he does have responsibility for them and of course he has rejected  Sir Charles  Court's request. I do not say that he has actually done that. It is probably a case of the Treasury winning. I think everyone associated with water conservation knows that one of the hardest things of all is to convince a Treasury official that there is any benefit in water conservation. The Treasury has a motto which is to the effect that there is only one thing which is more uneconomic than allowing water to flow out to the sea and that is storing it in uneconomic dams. So the Treasury has won with this Government, with the assistance of other honourable members. The Minister for Northern Development should either put up or shut up. This Government which promised the world in water conservation, has broken that promise, among many others. 
I do not want to delay the House unnecessarily, but I have here a quite long letter sent by the Mayor of Bundaberg, claiming that it was much more important for the Kolan scheme at Bundaberg to proceed than for the money to be spent on the Kinchant Dam which he claims was of much lower priority. But I will not delay the House by reading that letter. All I can say is that if these are the priorities of the present Government it is no wonder that the former honourable member for Wide Bay was defeated at the last election. 
It has been mentioned that there is to be a difference in the financial arrangements for these 2 projects in that the moneys for the Julius Dam will be provided by way of loan and the moneys for the Ross River Dam will be provided by way of grant. I do not want to make a point of this. I think the decision to make a grant for the Ross River Dam was made originally because it was felt that the Commonwealth, through its defence installation and its university and other installations in the area, would be responsible for using a considerable part of the water and therefore it should make a grant. However, I suggest that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation should be asked to look very carefully at the Julius Dam project to see whether it is not possible to use a system which it introduced some years ago and which involves the use of cetyl alcohol to prevent evaporation. The climate in these northern areas is such that there is enormous evaporation, enormous loss of water. This system has proved successful in some areas and as long as this film of cetyl acohol could be maintained by means of a float or something of that sort undoubtedly the dam would be much more effective than it otherwise would be. 
Thank goodness we have one Minister- I say this in favour of the Minister for Northern Development- who recognises the contribution made by the minerals industry and the necessity for these projects to proceed. In this second reading speech the Minister said: 
The mining industries of northern Australia are making a noteworthy and vitally important contribution to the economy of Australia. They will continue to do so in the future and, in one way or another, we must assure that the heavy burden of costs for water, transport and other basic facilities does not act as a deterrent to those people whose personal contribution is indispensable to the success of the development of our northern resources. 
I believe that every supporter of the Government should read, mark, learn and inwardly digest those words because, unfortunately, the Government seems to have forgotten them. We get support nowadays not for productive matters of this sort but for unproductive matters- for the purchase of the painting 'Blue Poles' and for teaching people how to throw boomerangs. It makes one wonder where the Government is going. Thank goodness it is in this case opting for something which is productive. I strongly support the Bills and congratulate the Government for proceeding with them. 
Does the Minister for Minerals and Energy recall advising me last year that the mining industry should write its contracts in Australian dollars because 'it has been common knowledge that the American dollar is on the down grade'? Did he also say: 'There are only 3 certainties in life today- death, taxes and successive, progressive and evermore frequent devaluations of the United States dollar'? Is he aware that if the people whom he so rudely referred to as 'mugs and hillbillies' had taken his advice they would have lost some hundreds of millions of dollars? Is it not he who has turned out to be the mug and hillbilly? Finally, when will the Minister answer the questions which I have had on the notice paper for almost a year? 
-We have been speaking this afternoon on the estimates of the Parliament and in particular on various aspects of the machinery of Parliament. I wish to speak about one aspect of the machinery of Parliament, namely, question time. I do this for 2 reasons. Firstly, you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  one of our most senior Liberals in this place and a member of the Standing Orders Committee raised this matter last night. You said, and I agreed with you, that there is much room for improvement in the procedure of question time. You mentioned various aspects such as the length of questions and in particular the unnecessarily long answers. 
I notice that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  must believe there is much room for improvement because he has on notice paper now a proposal that some Senate Ministers should be rostered to attend in the House of Representatives and that some House of Representatives Ministers should be rostered to attend in the Senate for the purpose of answering questions without notice. I believe that there would appear on the face of it to be considerable merit in the suggestion. I have always found it incomprehensible that Ministers in the Senate representing a Minister in this place should be questioned, sometimes at great length, for some hours, about a department when, with the best will in the world and the hardest work in the world, they cannot know fully the ins and outs of that department. But unless the Ministers from the House of Representatives give better answers in the Senate than they give in the House of Representatives then I do not think the Senate will be much better off. 
I think that at a time like this we should not only consider some minor change of that nature but also look at the whole aspect and machinery of question time. Should we have a Westminster system? In other words, should we have questions on notice rather than, as happens here, questions without notice and questions on the notice paper? As we know, in the Westminster system notice is given of a question. This enables the Minister to check the details and get his figures accurate. No Minister, no matter how well he knows his Department, can always have on hand every figure that he requires. I know that a considerable amount of time is spent by Ministers looking for example, at the daily newspapers and wondering what sort of question is likely to be asked and considering whether they have the answer to it. Time is spent which I think can on occasions ill afford to be spent. 
Under the Westminster system notice is given of a question. When the Minister is ready to answer it, the member who gave notice of the question says: 'I ask question No. 20' or whatever it is. The Minister reads the reply, very often prepared by the department. I was told that on one occasion a Minister had not read through the reply before he read it out and did not realise that at the end the department had written: 'We believe that a supplementary question will probably be asked by Bloggs. We find him a tedious bore'. I feel that a system like that is worth looking at because I think Ministers would be better informed, supplementary questions could be asked and members would get better answers than they get at the moment. 
A second question is whether adequate time is devoted to question time. I realise that we have nominally 45 minutes, but of course prayers and petitions probably cut that down to about 40 minutes. This week we have had a reasonably good record. Yesterday 19 questions were asked and on Tuesday there were 15 questions. The previous week on which the Parliament sat was not as good. On the Tuesday of that week there were 14 questions, on Wednesday nine and on 
Thursday eleven. There was a total of 34 questions in the week of which Opposition members asked eighteen. Of those 18, of course, the Leader and Deputy Leader of the 2 Opposition Parties asked half. That left 9 questions to be divided amongst the 57 members of this Parliament on the Opposition side who are not entitled to a call every time they stand. It is not difficult to work out that at this rate they are able to ask one question about every  6lA  sitting weeks. But of course the Parliament does not sit for 2 weeks in every six so that would mean they would be able to ask one question every 2 calendar months. That is simply not adequate under any standard. 
So I believe something should be done to see that adequate time is made available for questions. There are various ways in which this could be done. The first is to see whether we can cut out some of the excessively long answers which you mentioned,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  in particular. Looking through Hansard for the last 2 sitting weeks I found that answers taking 4'A to 5 minutes were not uncommon. We have limits imposed on the length of most speeches. Why should there not be a limit on the length of answers at question time. If necessary Ministers can give supplementary written replies or make a statement after question time. We know that very often question time is used by a government to make statements. Dorothy Dix questions are handed around to members on the Government side in reply to which a Minister makes a statement which he could just as well make after question time. 
Then, of course, we are asked to put questions on notice. This is farcical. As I pointed out yesterday, I have had questions on the notice paper for about a year, although only a small number of them, because I do not believe in cluttering up the notice paper. When the Parliament was dissolved I put them on the notice paper again. The Minister to whom they were directed has no intention of giving me answers to those questions and there is nothing I can do to get them. In the old days when a member put a question on the notice paper, as you will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  he received an answer fairly quickly. But then the Leader of the Opposition in the 27th Parliament decided that there was some merit in having a fantastic list of questions on notice. In the 27th Parliament there were all told something like 6,577 questions on notice, of which the Leader of the Opposition asked 2, 1 1 7. I do not believe for a moment that he thought them all up himself. I think that he would have been flat out even signing that number. It was quite obvious that he asked that number of questions to clutter up the machinery of government. A large number of questions on notice does clutter up the machinery of government, because if Ministers are to prepare answers they must divert unnecessarily members of their department from working on more important matters. 
I have said that we should get answers. Should there be a limit on the time taken to give answers? I have said that this could be done. Perhaps 2 minutes would be quite long enough. It would be quite easy for the  Clerk  at the table to turn on a machine which would show when the 2 minutes were up. I am sure that if Ministers had to provide a reply in 2 minutes their answers might be more relevant. I have not gone into this matter fully. I do not know the answer. All I know is that no member of the Parliament can adequately carry out the duties entrusted to him if he does not have sufficient time for speaking either in the House or in any future committees that may be established. I do not know whether the new committee, of which I have the honour to be a member, will be able to come up with an answer. Members must have more time to question Ministers. I would welcome the ability to have Senate Ministers brought into this chamber but if the present conditions continued it still would be unlikely that I would be able to get an opportunity to question them. While I support the motion to be moved by the Leader of the House I believe it goes only a small way towards answering the much larger question of how question time can be altered to make it better for the private member and for the Parliament to function as it should function. 
I will not delay the Committee for very long. I wish to speak on the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise. I am disappointed to see that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who represents the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  in this place is not here. I do not know whether or not he is back in the country yet. I hope that my remarks will be taken to the appropriate Minister because I want to complain about what I believe is one of the most irresponsible acts carried out by the present Government, and goodness knows that would be saying something. I refer to the decision to make a 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut. Undoubtedly the chickens are now coming home to roost because of this decision. 
I could not understand why this irresponsible action was taken. The Tariff Board has the responsibility of deciding what minimum amount of assistance is necessary to enable an economic and efficient industry to compete with imports. 
The tariff is set at the very minimum. The Government has suddenly decided that the tariff should be cut by 25 per cent. The effect of such a decision has been quite disastrous in some cases. I say that it is irresponsible to take such action firstly because a number of people in a number of areas throughout Australia have lost their employment as a result of the making of such a decision and, secondly, because we lost a chance when we did so to get a quid pro quo. Everyone knows that there is an enormous amount of bargaining and negotiation internationally on tariffs. If we had intended to reduce some of our tariffs we could have persuaded many other countries to reduce their tariffs so as to enable us to export more easily to them. But that was not done. It was a grandiose bit of grandstanding. For a while we were told what a great move it was, how things were going to come into this country more cheaply and how that would affect the cost of living. But all that has happened, of course, is that the industries which had been to the Tariff Board and had been given the very minimum that was necessary to enable them to compete with imports have now found that they are unable to compete. Some of them have gone to the wall and some of them have partially gone to the wall. 
I want to speak about the effect of this decision on my own area. I do not doubt that every honourable member in this chamber could bring forward similar examples. I live close to what has been termed a growth centre. The actions of the Government in making a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board have undermined every growth centre that there was ever likely to be in this country. Before Albury-Wodonga was selected as a growth centre it was thriving. It was going ahead at something like a 7 per cent rate of growth. It was getting funds from the State sphere to assist in encouraging industry to become established there. We had quite a major success in the setting up there of a plant by BorgWarner (Aust.) Ltd for the making of motor car gears. It was to supply most of Australia with motor car gears partly from that plant and partly from its Sydney plant. It looked like building up into one of the major inland industries in Australia. But what happened? The Government took 2 steps. Firstly, it cut tariffs by 25 per cent; secondly, it revalued the dollar. In no time a number of viable industries in Albury-Wodonga were no longer viable. 
A few weeks ago Borg- Warner retrenched 72 people. Of course, it has also ceased recruiting. So in addition to the jobs of the 72 people who were actually sacked there would have been many more jobs available if it had still been a viable industry. Only last week Borg-Warner announced that a further 84 people would be dismissed from its Albury plant. So here we have a major country industry which is just running down. In fact, if the report of the Industries Assistance Commission is accepted by the Government, I have been led to believe that it could well be the end of Borg-Warner in Albury as an industry, certainly as a viable industry. Of course, its establishment is one of the major ways in which that growth centre was meant to be built up. 
Other country areas have been affected by the Government's decision to cut tariffs because it has led to vast imports of textiles and the textile industries throughout Australia are mostly located in country areas. A greater percentage of the manufacturing industry to be found in country areas is the textile industry. A number of textile industries in country areas have closed because of the tariff cuts. That is particularly so in Wangaratta. I have never heard a statement quite as irresponsible as the one made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that anyone who was out of employment at Wangaratta could go to the Albury- Wodonga growth centre and get employment. He is either not interested or has not cared to inform himself of the fact that there is major unemployment at Albury-Wodonga. One textile industry there told me that only 10 months ago it employed 200 people and that today it employs less than 100 people. Some of that has been brought about by actual retrenchments but most of it by not recruiting. That is another result of the decision to cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. 
An inquiry should have been held before such a decision was taken. In fact, I believe there is some doubt as to the legality of cutting tariffs unless a full inquiry has been held. Another factory in Albury-Wodonga- one could go through them at great length- known as Twin Disc (Pacific) Pty Ltd, which was making axles and which was going to produce them locally, also has been affected. It had just tooled up to start when the announcements about the 25 per cent tariff cut and the revaluations of the dollar came. The firm said that it could not compete with imports and that it would cease to manufacture. It said that it would just be a distribution centre. So another valuable industry was lost to the area. There are many other country centres in which that has happened. 
What happens to those people who are retrenched? I have heard mentioned that there is considerable unemployment because of the tariff cuts and various other economic actions by the Government. The stupid thing about it all is that there are now 3 categories of unemployed. There are apparently the people who will receive the same salary as they were receiving before they lost their jobs because of the Government's decision to cut tariffs. If they receive the same salary for 6 months there will be no incentive for them to look for another job. I want to point to the inequity of one person getting his full wage because he lost his job as a result of the Government's stupidity in relation to tariffs and of another person who lost his job because of the Government's stupidity in economic affairs generally not getting his full wage but getting only the unemployment benefit. Then there is the third category of people who are retrained at something like $90 a week for a job which will not be in existence when they finish their training. What a stupid mess. Who will make the decision as to what a person will get when he becomes unemployed? Who will decide whether his unemployment is due to the Government's stupidity on tariff affairs or the Government's stupidity on economic affairs? For whatever reason they are out of work such people will get different rates of pay for being out of work. All I am saying is that that is the last way in which to encourage the development of a growth centre. In fact, we would have been much better off if before we had a growth centre we had had common sense economic management of the community. But nothing has been done by the Government to ensure that viable industry would be built up. One can go from a population of 30,000 at present to 300,000 at the end of the century in Albury-Wodonga only by attracting industry, but nothing has been done as yet to attract industry. There have been lots of planners in the area but that is about all. There have also been promises made, including the promise of the local call rate being applied to certain telephone calls, but we know that we are not going to get that. It was only an election gimmick. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government subsidise lessons in golf. 
If so, how much is allocated in the present Budget for these lessons. 
Is any means test applied to the applicants. 
Does the Government also subsidise lessons in squash. 
Are lessons given at taxpayers' expense in any other sports. 
Are these lessons, for people who are sometimes well able to pay for them, regarded as having a higher priority than measures aimed at alleviating poverty or other social security measures. 
Unfortunately we have a very short time in which to speak in the debates on these estimates and I do not want to delve into all of the statements that have been made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I will very quickly comment on a couple of remarks that he made. He said that one of" the jobs of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  whom he congratulated, was to see that our mining industry was in the hands of Australians. One of the extraordinary things about the Minister is that he continues to repeat this yet all the actions that he takes have the opposite effect. One has only to look at a very recent report by the Australian Bureau of Statistics to see that during the period since the Minister came into office- he has had some months in control of this industry- there has been an increase in foreign ownership whereas during the latter period of my Party s time in office foreign ownership remained fairly static. As I have said, under the administration of the present Minister foreign ownership has increased. 
Another matter I mention very quickly because of my limitation of time is that the honourable member complained that the petrochemical industry at Redcliffs has not been able to get under way. He said that the South Australian Government had worthwhile plans. Here again, of course, it has been the stultifying effect of the Federal Government which has prevented any major mining development in Australia during the period it has been in office. The Redcliffs industry is one example. There is also the Alwest proposal, a major proposal in which a large Australian company- Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd- was to be a shareholder and indeed was to use it as a means of getting into bauxite and alumina mining. But the present Minister, it seems, would rather prevent development than see it proceed. 
Let me turn now to what I want to say on the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy. I wish to discuss the policies of the present Government, if indeed there are any policies. We all know that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at the invitation of the present Government recently published a review of scientific and technological activities in Australia. This highly reputable body summed up our energy policy in these few words: 
At the present time there is no energy policy at the national level. 
Of course this rebuke stung the Minister and he issued a special statement in which he referred to the report in his customary language as being trivial and, in fact, of a fallacious nature. Surely the OECD report is true. In the past 3 weeks there has been quite a hooha- I think that is the in expression today- about the so-called policies of the Government. When the Prime Minister at the United Nations said: 'We in Australia accept our responsibility to reassure countries which depend upon our resources that they shall have steady, secure access to those resources at fair prices' the Australian people believed that there had been a switch from the so called 'keep it in the ground' policy of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. When the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Renouf,  gave a special briefing to Press men on the subject this belief was reinforced to such an extent that even mining shares on the stock exchanges reacted strongly. But it soon became apparent that either the Prime Minister had backed down on his proposed confrontation with the Minister or else that there was no change and that the Prime Minister's words at the United Nations were just platitudes. 
Attempts have even been made to justify the present policy of the Government. This year the Minister said: 'Australia's mineral exports will set an all time record.' This statement of course completely ignores the whole argument. If we do have record mineral exports this year it will be for 2 reasons. The first is that major mineral development projects initiated under previous Liberal-Country Party administrations are now coming into full production; and secondly, there has been a considerable escalation of mineral prices overseas caused by a shortage of supply and by inflation. It is extremely doubtful whether any of the major projects initiated in the 1960s would have proceeded in the present climate. Virtually all the encouragements that we gave to companies to assist them to get these projects off the ground have been abolished. In fact, as I said previously, there has not been a new major mineral development since May 1972 when the big coal project known as Saraji was opened up in central Queensland by Utah Developments Australia Pty Ltd. But what we are complaining about is, firstly, that the present climate is such that exploration in the mining and petroleum industries has been discouraged to such an extent that it is dropping alarmingly; and, secondly, that the Government has prevented Australian firms from writing contracts for the sale of uranium overseas despite the fact that we have some hundreds of thousands of tons more than we can possibly use ourselves this century. 
I mentioned that at the United Nations the Prime Minister said that Australia is not in the business of resources blackmail, and he went on to reassure countries that they would have steady, secure access to these resources. But where is this steady, secure access to uranium? Not one pound of uranium has been sold overseas by a contract approved by the present Minister. Companies have been told to withdraw tenders for the supply of U308 or else not to bid for sales which could bring into Australia well over $ 1 ,000m. So these sales are going to our overseas competitors while our uranium lies in the ground. We have no shortage of it. Conservative estimates of Australia's present proved reserves place them at more than 300,000 tons of U308 while our estimated needs to the end of the century are reckoned to be no more than 40,000 tons. 
The Minister has tried to explain this policy. He said his policy is to allow the export of enriched uranium only because this will be worth 5 times as much as natural uranium. Even here he is in error as usual, as industry sources claim that the figure is only two and a half times greater for enriched uranium But an enrichment plant, as we know, would cost $2,000m to $3,000m and could' not possibly operate before the mid 1980s. In the meantime, we are losing sales to Japan, Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi in Italy, Centrales Nucleares S.A. in Spain, the Tennessee Valley Authority, Finland and Belgium, all of whom want to get our uranium. Yet apologists say that the Minister does not have a policy of keeping the minerals in the ground. 
All exploration has dropped alarmingly but the area that has given us most cause for worry is oil search. The self-sufficiency which we had built up is rapidly being eroded. In my last year as Minister for National Develpment, 322 holes were drilled in the search for oil and gas. This year the number appears likely to be between 60 and 70. Most oil search companies are now either closing down completely, going into mothballs or going overseas where they can deal with a more responsible government. This situation will certainly get worse before it gets better as drilling depends, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  on seismic work to delineate stuctures worth drilling. This year seismic work in Australia has hit an all time low since 1 963 and is only one-fifth of what it was before the present Government took office. 
Of course the Minister is renowned for the inaccuracy of his statistics. This time last year he was saying that Australia had no more than 8 years of known recoverable reserves of crude oil. Last week he claimed that we have IS years. It all depends on which figure he thinks is more useful at the time he produces it. But of course the Minister ought to know that reserves are not some finite amount; they vary depending on the price of the crude, just as the mines' reserves vary. For example, in Australia today there are at least four and probably double that number of oil fields that are not commercial at today's price of $2.05 a barrel but which would be commercial at less than what we are paying for oil overseas. Likewise, of course, oil can be made from coal or shale but the capital cost is likely to be prohibitive for some time to come. I finish by saying that it is a pity to see the Minister having such an effect on an industry which has done so much good for Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I strongly support the motion which has been moved so ably by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  Let me just read it out agains so that the House will understand it fully. The motion reads: 
That this House requests the Government to urgently present a program to stimulate rural production and to restore confidence in the rural sector of the economy in Australia as a proper basis for any positive plan the Government may sponsor or support at the forthcoming World Food Conference organised by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation in Rome during November. 
I intend to speak in particular about the beef situation because the beef industry in Australia is in a state of absolute crisis, as is the wool industry to a certain extent. Of course, those 2 industries are Australia's greatest farming industries. The situation in the beef industry at the moment is absolutely desperate. One frequently sees steers which were bought 12 months ago for between $150 and $250 each, depending on their age and size, and which have since been fattened, now worth $50 to $100 each. I heard recently of a person who purchased a property and stocked it with 1,000 steers and who would lose $100,000 if he realised on those steers today. The situation is desperate. It is even more desperate because many of the people engaged in the industry who borrowed short term money at high interest rates to enable them to purchase cattle and fatten them, expecting to make a profit, are now having to put them on the market in any case because they are being asked to repay their short term loans and they are all losing very heavily. That is the situation in the beef industry. 
As I have said, the situation in the wool industry is scarcely any better. The returns coming in now are showing that the wool cheques this year will be less than half what they were last year. They are at that level only because of the support that is being given by the Australian Wool Commission, which is buying in up to 40 per cent, and sometimes even more, of the offering. We all know that this sort of thing cannot go on indefinitely. But, of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the primary producers have never had it so good, has told them that the worst is over and has gone to the United Nations posturing and saying that Australia is in a great position to produce more food. Of course it can produce more food if it is given the incentive to do so, but it must be given the incentive by way of returns and by way of assistance. 
What are the causes of the present situation? It is partly self-inflicted and it is partly due to world-wide causes. Undoubtedly, so far as the beef situation is concerned, there has been overproduction in certain areas and very large amounts are being held in storage. From December 1973 the meat exports from Australia have been only 5 1 per cent of the performance a year earlier. That has been brought about by a number of factors. I understand that there has been a severe drought in the United States of America, which has led to a number of cattle which normally would have been kept for breeding purposes being put on to the market and that therefore at the present moment there is an oversupply and over-killing. We expect the situation to be restored to normal in the not too distant future, but it will be probably a year or so before the United States commences once again to take large quantities of Australian meat. 
There has been a very big drop in exports from Australia to Japan, which are only 62 per cent of what they were a year earlier. Large stocks have been built up. Now a beef quota exists and Australia has to get in for its small share of a small quota. The European Economic Community again is causing considerable trouble. In May 1974 it suspended import licences because of the size of the intervention stocks, which in beef alone were, I believe, some 100,000 tons. The incredible situation with respect to the EEC is that by paying high prices it encourages local production and the local production is then far larger than can possibly be stored and the EEC dumps it on world markets at any price, thereby completely upsetting the world markets in many areas. That is one of the causes of the present situation, but only one. 
The reduction in government assistance undoubtedly has been of major importance to the Australian producer. The honourable member for Gwyder said that some $350m less is going either to primary producers or to nonmetropolitan producers. The subsidies, taxation concessions and the like which the previous Liberal-Country Party Government built over many years to help the primary producer have been abolished by the present Government. We used to hear the Australian Labor Party say that it had a great Minister for Agriculture in  Senator Wriedt  and that he was the greatest. It was almost like hearing Cassius Clay. 
That is a good question. What has he done? He loses every fight. 
I would like to hear of one that he has won. We seem to find that whenever a decision is made by the Caucus or the Cabinet it is made against the best interests of the Australian farmer. I hope that the Minister will put on a better performance in Rome than he has put on in Australia. Another reason for the present situation on the land has been the enormous increase in costs that has occurred under the present Government. I do not want to return once again to the subject of inflation, but it is having an enormous effect on the cost of everything which the farmer has to buy. Steel posts, drenches, dips and all those sorts of things have gone up enormously in cost. Wages have gone up. The cost of shearing has gone up enormously. I recall that in my last years as a farmer something like one-third of the total value of the wool clip would go in shearing and crutching costs. Today the percentage is probably even larger than that. 
The honourable member for Gwydir mentioned the increase in the cost of superphosphate. I have always said that it would be to the advantage of a government to give superphosphate to a farmer for nothing because of the greater returns and greater tax revenue that would result. The present Government has been responsible for the price of superphosphate increasing to 3 times what it was at the beginning of 1973- from about $17 per tonne to about $50 per tonne. We know that a small amount of that increase has been due to the increase in the price of rock phosphate, but quite a lot of it has been due to the withdrawal of the subsidy. It is ludicrous for the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to say, as he did in the House yesterday, that there has been a new discovery of phosphate. Does he not know that it was found in 1966 and that it was found only as a result of Liberal-Country Party policies which have since been abolished by the present Government? Had it not been for the payment of a subsidy in relation to oil drilling and the return of the cores as a result of that, we never would have discovered the enormous amount of phosphate rock in the north which we hope will be brought into production and manage to keep some of these excess costs down. 
I have been asked by the Whip to limit my speaking time. Therefore I shall conclude by saying what we can do to improve the situation, which I believe is catastrophic at the present moment. Firstly, of course, we have to continue negotiations overseas and search for every possible market. I do not mind Ministers going overseas when they are going for some useful purpose, such as trying to open up new markets; but I do object to the great sallies overseas by the Prime Minister, with an entourage of some 50 people and some 200 gallons of champagne, because they achieve nothing. So we have to continue negotiations overseas. We have to make finance available at reasonable rates and on reasonable terms. This, I think, is the most important action which should be taken for the farmer. 
I mentioned the fact that many farmers are now in difficulties because they have had to borrow money for the purchase of stock. That money has been borrowed short term and at high rates of interest. No one can afford to be paying 1 5 per cent interest on a loan over a long period and to hold stock whose value is continuing to drop. I have heard of cases of people who have borrowed money and stock agents have then said: 'We must recall that money'. These people have had to sell their stock on the market for whatever they can get. Not only do they have to sell the stock which they purchased as a result of their loans but also they usually have to sell in addition a great deal of their original stock in order to repay those funds. 
Before the last election, the Liberal Party put forward its rural policy which included the establishment of a national rural bank. I believe that enormous benefits could be derived from such a scheme. We said that there should be an institution of combined trading banks and other lenders in the rural sector to provide for the rural sector. This new institution also would finance plant, stock and equipment on a medium term loan basis at bank interest rates rather than through hire purchase firms. The terms that were suggested for lending purposes were appropriate to the purpose of the loan- for example, 5 years to 10 years duration for a loan on plant, equipment and breeding stock and 15 to 30 years duration for a loan to purchase land. 
We also put forward the proposal that there should be a reserve fund. Farm incomes in Australia fluctuate so widely through droughts. We said that there should be a reserve fund into which farmers in a good year could deposit money without paying tax on that money. When it was necessary for them to withdraw all or part of those funds, tax would be paid on the amount withdrawn. That would tend to equalise the scheme. We know that there is an averaging system provided in relation to taxation. But I think that the scheme we proposed would have been of increased advantage to primary producers. - 
The Liberal Party believes that many subsidies and concessions should be restored. Again, on taxation, we have said that Australia is one of the most drought-prone countries anywhere in the world with wide seasonal fluctuations. We believe that Government policies through appropriate taxation concessions for water and soil conservation and fodder conservation should encourage farmers to drought-proof themselves in the national interest. We believe also that this new capital gains tax should not be hanging over the heads of people who urgently need capital. We do not know a great deal at the present time about that proposed tax. 
Finally I suggest to the Government that it should consider the use of beef as part of its overseas aid program. We remember that in the early post war years wheat was used to feed starving countries. At that time a wheat surplus existed in the world and a great deal of wheat from Australia was used by some of the starving countries. I believe that it could be possible for the same thing to be done with respect to our beef. It could be used for that purpose. Countries in need, of course, would have to agree to that proposal. Many of them prefer capital equipment to consumable goods. I think that there is a case for this action. I hope that the Government will look into the matter. In order to maintain my agreement with the Whip, I shall now conclude. I support most strongly the motion that has been moved. 
-We have just heard from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  a pitiful series of excuses for the defence failures of the Australian Labor Party. It really was painful to listen to some of the excuses. We were told that it is quite all right if we spend only 2.4 per cent of gross national product on defence. The honourable member said nothing about the fact that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and the present Government, when in opposition, promised that the Labor Party would spend not less than 3.5 per cent of gross national product on defence. We have seen defence expenditure drop more and more until now it is only 2.4 per cent of gross national product. As another excuse the honourable member compared our defence expenditure with that of European nations which have a long history of keeping out of any war. There is no reason to compare Australia with these nations. 
The honourable member also mentioned that only 7 per cent of the defence vote is being spent on new equipment, yet he congratulated the Minister on the way in which he was modernising equipment across the board and not going in for glamour items like Fills. This so-called glamour item is about the one major item of equipment in Australia today which is first class by any world standard and on which Australia's defence can rely, provided the communists agree to let us have the necessary petrol. Recently they have decided not to do this, so on occasions the Fl 1 Is just sit on the tarmac waiting to get petrol so that they can fly. There is no doubt whatsoever that what Australia needs is more equipment and less manpower. If there is a certain amount to be spent on defence in Australia it can be spent best by outlaying the highest possible percentage on new equipment and on improvement of bases. This is what we have always aimed at. It is true that when I took over ministerial responsibility for the Department of Defence we were not spending what was regarded by many of us an adequate percentage on new equipment. In fact the 5 year rolling program which the previous Government produced aimed at increasing this amount each year until the percentage again reached the high twenties. It is shocking that only 7 per cent of total defence expenditure is being spent on new equipment. It is quite scandalous. Of course, one can see everywhere one looks a complete run down in the equipment that is being provided for the 3 Services just because there has been virtually no new decision. 
Before I go on let me also mention the other point that was made by the honourable member for Adelaide and also by the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  They said that the advice available to the Government was that there was no threat to the Australian mainland in the next 10 or IS years. They said that on the basis of this there is no need to spend so much money on defence. They said: 'Let us spend it on welfare and cut down defence expenditure'. I just do not believe that the views of either Service officials or civilian officials who give advice to the Government have changed to the extent that it is believed they have changed. For one thing, members of the Opposition have been unable to look at the so-called strategic basis, although we have asked the Minister time and time again whether we can see it. It is very nice to have some document from which you can quote the bits you want to quote and do not quote the bits you do not want to quote. All I can say is that in the time of the former Government the advice given was of a different nature. Let me read from one of the defence reports which I presented and which at the time was believed on the best advice available to be sound advice. It states: 
Uncertainty about future developments in a fluid situation requires that we keep under close review the dimensions and the character of our defence capabilities as a whole. There is no single or clear contingency which affords a basis for Australia's force development policy in the coming years. Discernible trends and new or abiding uncertainties suggest the importance of keeping the determinants of our force structure flexible. There is a need for close attention to the proper balance between expenditure directed to short term defence capability and other expenditures which will enhance defence potential in the longer term, and provide a basis for a military potential which can be realised in adequate time should circumstances require.  Major weapons  systems take many years to procure and bring into operation. 
This is particularly so about the DDL destroyers. We knew at the time the previous Government took the decision to build the DDLs- a decision later revoked by the present Government- the first of them would not come into operation until the early 1980s. This was the latest time we could possibly afford to have the DDLs available because some of our destroyers were going out of service. There is a long lead time attached to every item of equipment, particularly major items of equipment. It went on to say: 
Changes in our strategic environment affect our options for defence strategies, but they do not alter the need for adequate defence and national military capabilities. While no immediate threat to the security of Australia is foreseen, our evident ability to support our allies, or to prepare ourselves to cope with contingencies which might emerge at a later date, must not be prejudiced if our longer term credibilityto friends and potential enemies alike- is to be maintained. There is moreover a continuing need to develop the skills of our Services, to keep abreast of the technology of weapons systems, and to provide for orderly development and efficient management  of the  Services. 
I do not believe that at any time have advisers to any government said: 'There is no threat to Australia for the next 10 or 15 years. Go your hardest and spend all the money you want on welfare and forget about the Services'. This has never been said. A short sentence has been lifted out of context. I am sure that the Minister would agree that we cannot say that there is no threat to Australia. It is not only a threat to Australia but a threat to our whole area that should concern us. Look how closely the Indonesian mainland came to being taken over by the communists. In the coup that took place in Indonesia some generals were shot and some generals were missed. If all the generals that the communists wanted shot had been shot we could well have had a communist Indonesia instead of the Indonesia we have today, which is extremely friendly towards us. The same sort of thing is happening in Vietnam, where our friends- I say 'our friends'; I do not say 'the Government's friends'- are being attacked. Something like a quarter of a million North Vietnamese armed soldiers are on the fields in South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese are attacking the Cambodians. 
I am saying that the whole of this South East Asian area is one of the most unstable areas in the world and we have got to have adequate defence capabilities; we are just not getting those adequate defence capabilities at the present moment. In a speech I made in the House on defence only a few months ago I pointed out the way in which our whole defence forces were running down. Our Army had lost some 12,000 men. It was 11,210 fewer than when the LiberalCountry Party Government went out of office; the Navy had 906 fewer men; the Air Force had 1,218 fewer men. In actual fact, shortly after I made that speech the Minister put out a statement in which he corrected my figures and showed that I had actually overstated the number of people we had in the Services and in fact it was over 400 fewer than I had said, so the position is even worse. And what is being done? Absolutely nothing in the field of new equipment. The only action, taken with a rush by the Minister just before the election, was the purchase- after the cancellation of the DDLs and the breaking of a promise by the Minister that whatever was going to replace our destroyers would be made in Australia- of 2 patrol frigates and, as everyone knows, they are ships which were designed for a specific purpose in a large navy, the United States Navy, and were not designed to suit Australian conditions at all. The Australian Navy looked at the patrol frigate and said that it was quite unsuited and therefore it designed the DDL. The DDL was accepted by the Liberal-Country Party Government because it would have a much greater capability than the patrol frigate. But no, the Minister cancelled that, and the Navy is now to get a secondhand ship. The Government has also cancelled the fast combat support ship and it has slowed down on the Cockburn Sound development. It is doing everything it possibly can to try to keep the United States from building up a base in the Indian Ocean. 
So one can go on. There has been no decision whatsoever. When the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office it was close to making a decision on the new tank to replace the present one, which is far too old. We had narrowed the choice down to the German Leopard and the American M60. Still no decision has been made on that. No decision has been made on the replacement for the Neptunes. No decision has been made about what is going to replace the Mirage. If nothing is going to replace it, then why does the Government not update it? This can easily be done by putting in better radar, a better air to air missile system and a better engine. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Tonight I want to draw the attention of the Government and in particular the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to an unsatisfactory situation that has developed at Albury because of the failure of the Minister to consult the Albury City Council adequately on plans for the future development of the Albury airport. I warned the Minister this morning of my intention to raise this matter in the hope that he would be able in the meantime to inform himself fully of the latest situation and that he would be able to make a clear and concise statement on what are his future plans for the area. 
I commence by saying that the first regular air transport for the Albury district was provided by Trans-Australia Airlines in the early 1950s by DC3 aircraft from Corowa- a town 35 miles distant from Albury. Because of the distance intending travellers had to drive to reach the airport this service never developed into an economic project and never attracted sufficient air travellers. For some time, in conjunction with the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Mr Townley,  the officer-in-charge of airport development in his Department,  Mr Bradfield,  and the Albury Mayor and City Engineer, I helped in the selection of the most suitable site for the airport and in getting the Council to agree to the development of the airport in conjunction with the Department. In spite of some initial misgivings by the Albury City Council the project proved to be an immediate success and the airport now does a greater amount of business than any other inland airport in New South Wales. 
Part of the reason for its remarkable success and popularity with air travellers undoubtedly is the close proximity of the airport to the population centre. But, of course, the very success of this project has caused growth problems. The airport terminal facilities became inadequate and recently had to be expanded. The runways, whilst adequate for F27 Friendship aircraft, are inadequate in length, strength and width for regular services by jets. One of the companies operating into Albury- Eastwest Airlines Ltdhas offered to pay the Council, which, of course, owns the land, $200,000 to improve the runway in order to enable it to take F28 Fellowship jets. The parking area is sufficient to park only 2 Friendships. On occasions when more have been at the terminal at the one time great inconvenience has been caused and aircraft have had to be moved by hand, very often with the passengers assisting. 
Perhaps worst of all is the lack of an instrument landing system. A directional beacon now directs aircraft over the airport. They can descend safely to 3,000 feet but if they have not broken cloud at 3,000 feet they must proceed through an alternative airport. Last year many flights from both East- West Airlines and TAA were unable to land and had to carry on to either Melbourne or Canberra. Both for improved operating regularity and greater safety an instrument landing system at Albury is an urgent necessity. Before deciding to expend additional money on the runways, parking space and an instrument landing system, the Department wisely decided to consult other authorities, although it did not do so with respect to terminal improvements. But the whole trouble is this: Who has been consulted by the Department? 
The Albury City Council, which is the owner in fee simple of the present airport and part operator, is completely in the dark. At its meeting last night it said it was deeply disturbed at the lack of information on the Department's proposals. It asked what further delays were likely to occur before a decision was made. It questioned how a correct and democratic decision could be made without full consultation with representatives of the Albury ratepayers. I also tried to put my views to the authorities before- I stress the word 'before'- a decision is made. As the member for the area for 25 years, as a previous Acting Minister for Civil Aviation, and as a person not without some knowledge of airport requirements I asked the Minister whether I could discuss his Department's proposals with one of his senior officials in the Ground Facilities Division- a not unreasonable request. I was completely fobbed off and told that when the Department had produced its report I could have it explained to me. This proposition I at once totally rejected. 
Now apparently- I get my information only from newspapers- the report has been produced. It has not been sent to the Albury City Council but apparently it has been sent- again according to newspaper reports- to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. The only trouble is that the Corporation has not yet received it. Again according to newspaper reports, the Department has carried out feasibility studies of 2 sites at Barnawartha and at sites at Jindera, Howlong and Corowa. I do not doubt that airports could be satisfactorily built on all these sites. One already exists at Corowa. An even better airport could, of course, be built in the Simpson Desert where there would be no obstructions to interfere with any instrument landing system and no major earthmoving problems. Its only problem would be the distance from the population it served. 
Here in Canberra we have an admirable airport site close to the city. The same applies to Albury where the airport is ideally situated. Trans-Australia Airlines has stated strongly that the present site is the most convenient. It has expressed the emphatic view that it should remain where it is. The present site can easily be developed to cater for DC9 aircraft which even at maximum all-up weight require only a 6,800 feet runway, as the Minister would know, with a 200 feet overrun and a width of 150 feet. Even with the present annual growth rate of over 10 per cent per annum in air traffic at Albury, one cannot foresee in the distant future where an aircraft taking a long run would be used from the Albury airport. Nor should noise be a problem. This airport will never be used in the middle of the night when it might be likely to disturb residents. Of course, the Development Corporation wants to get its sticky fingers onto this prime piece of real estate, but this attempt should be strongly resisted by the Minister. I hope the Minister will, as a matter of urgency, immediately inform the Albury City Council, myself and the general public what his plans are. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that in order to attract industry to decentralised growth centres such as AlburyWodonga, State governments give concessions to industries which have the effect of increasing their profits? Is he aware that, as a result, half of the concessions granted by States finish up in Commonwealth consolidated revenue? In view of the fact that every week industries are retrenching staff in this so-called growth centre, when will his Government lay down policies which will attract and maintain industries in this area? In particular, when may we expect the implementation of his 1972 election policy promise for local call telephone access from Albury to Melbourne and Sydney? 
I desire to draw to the attention of the Government tonight the highly unsatisfactory situation of private members in this Parliament who try to represent the needs of their electorate. One of the rights of private members is their right to question responsible Ministers about Government activities which affect the nation in general or a member's electorate in particular. In pursuance of these duties we all try whenever we can to question relevant Ministers. Yesterday at question time I asked a question about something which affected my electorate. I asked this question of the Prime Minister: 
Is the Prime Minister aware that in order to attract industry to decentralised growth centres such as AlburyWodonga, State governments give concessions to industries which have the effect of increasing their profits? Is he aware that, as a result, half of the concessions granted by States finished up in Commonwealth consolidated revenue? 
Of course they are taxable. My question continued: 
In view of the fact that every week industries are retrenching staff in this so-called growth centre, when will his Government lay down policies which will attract and maintain industries in this area? In particular, when may we expect the implementation of his 1972 election policy promise for local call telephone access from Albury to Melbourne and Sydney? 
I felt that that was a fair question. It was not politically loaded. It was seeking information and it was seeking action. I do not believe that many honourable members opposite realise that State governments give concessions which are taxed by the Commonwealth and finish up as Commonwealth revenue. One would have expected some sort of adequate reply, but the reply I got was completely evasive. 
It was the Prime Minister. He did not touch on any of the main part of the question. The Prime Minister replied: 
The Royal Commission on the Post Office under  Sir James  Vernon- the second Vernon Royal Commission- made some recommendations upon the matter of concessional telephone and telex charges to designated growth centres. They are being discussed with the State governments. 
The entire answer did not touch on the main part of the question at all and it left unanswered the question on decentralisation. If the Prime Minister did not know- one can give him the benefit of the doubt and say that he did not know- at least he might have said that he would contact me later or give a written reply. But no courtesy was extended. I believe a little courtesy and a little consideration would not have been out of place. I cannot even work out why the Prime Minister said that this was a matter for discussion with State governments, because surely we are in charge of the Postmaster-General's Department. The Prime Minister made this promise 2 years ago and he has not implemented it. He should not have made the promise if he could not implement it. Why is he discussing this matter with State governments when he could implement it tomorrow if he wanted to do so? 
The fact of the matter is that this was the first question I had asked for one month and it was fobbed off by the Prime Minister. It was a complete waste of time. What opportunity do I and other members have for getting this sort of information? I believe, as private members, we are entitled to receive this sort of information. Will I get another chance to ask a question before Christmas? I very much doubt it. You,  Mr Speaker,  are the only one who knows the answer to that. I would not be surprised if I have to wait until February or March before I get the chance to ask another question. In any case if I do get the chance to ask another question, no doubt the answer will be just as irrelevant as this answer was. 
It goes to show that we have a completely archaic and antiquated system for asking questions in this House. We grind through some 35 to 40 questions and answers a week. They consist of Dorothy Dixers, ministerial statements made in the guise of replies to questions which have been handed out by Ministers and irrelevant and misleading answers. This means there are 800 to 1,000 questions in a year. We should compare this figure with that for the House of Commons. My colleague, the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  was kind enough to give me a copy of the Tregear report. I recall that  Mr Tregear  was a very distinguished  Clerk  of this House who spent some 12 months in the United Kingdom studying the procedures of the House of Commons. He points out in his report that up to 28,000 questions a year are asked and answered in the House of Commons. 
About 800 to 1,000 questions, I suppose. 
No, it does not. It does not have questions on Friday. It sits on Monday, of course. Of course the House of Commons has four to five times as many members as the House of Representatives has. 
No, they are all questions on notice, as you would know,  Mr Speaker,  I am sure. Questions are listed. The questioner refers to the number of his question and receives an answer. Supplementary questions can be asked afterwards. Up to 120 questions a day are asked in the House of Commons against something like 12 questions a day here. All the questions out of the 120 questions which remain unanswered receive written replies. What is more, the members receive accurate and relevant answers because there is time to consider the answers. I am not complaining. I have been a Minister myself and I know that when a question is suddenly thrown at a Minister it is difficult for him to give an accurate reply. No Minister with the best will in the world can always have all the facts concerning his Department at his fingertips. In the House of Commons each member is limited to 3 oral questions each day plus supplementaries. What a heaven that would be compared with one question a month in this Parliament if a member is lucky. 
I refer now to the questions which are not for oral answer and which would be equivalent to our questions on notice. The departments there are expected to furnish replies within 7 days, and they do. What a paradise. I have had questions on the notice paper for a year. I have not received an answer and I know I will not get one. There is no way in which a member can force an answer. Have we ever thought of the waste caused by printing questions on the notice paper? If the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  cares to look at the notice paper he will see that there are 138 pages of questions on notice on the notice paper today. Each honourable member receives 2 copies of the notice paper. This means that each day 32,000 pages are involved in the distribution of the notice paper to honourable members alone. Taking into account the other copies which are distributed, more than 100,000 pages per week are devoted to setting out questions on notice which are not answered and which lay on the notice paper for a considerable period. 
I can answer that very quickly. The question was put on notice in the term of the previous Parliament. When that Parliament was dissolved and the new Parliament elected the question was resubmitted, and it was remained unanswered, so it has actually been on the notice paper for more than 12 months both in the term of this Parliament and in the term of the previous Parliament. 
I hope that no one will ask: 'What did you do?* It is terribly easy to say: 'You did the same sort of thing'. Perhaps we did. But we should realise that the Minister of today is the backbencher of tomorrow and vice versa. The first thing that we want to see is that there are adequate opportunities in this Parliament for members to question Ministers and to receive accurate replies, not the sort of replies that we have been receiving. I do believe that Ministers should try to improve their courtesy in answering questions and the quality of those answers. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 9 July 1973 that, in relation to Queensland coal production, the correct policy is for a balance of 20 per cent open-cut and 80 per cent underground. 
What were the actual proportions achieved in either 1972 or 1972-73. 
What measures does he propose to adopt in order to bring about the proportions stated in part ( 1 ). 
By what date does he plan to achieve the proposed ration. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister state in Mexico that mineral exporting countries should take joint action to co-ordinate prices and quantities. 
What other actions are encompassed in the Phrase resources diplomacy as used by the Government. 
Does he take as a serious threat the recent statement by  Mr Tanabe,  of Nippon Steel, to the effect that Japan would turn to Brazil, South Africa and West Africa for iron ore and to Canada and Siberia for coal. 
How many new contracts for the purchase by Japan from Australia of (a) iron ore, (b) coking coal, (c) bauxite and (d) alumina have been signed since 2 December 1972. 
5 ) What is their total value. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the annual report of the Australian War Memorial which was tabled in the House yesterday. Is he aware that the report lists the Board of Trustees as at 30 June 1974 as comprising 12 gentlemen of whom the  Chairman  was  Mr H.  B. S. Gullett, M.C.? Is he aware that the Board's report describes this gentleman as an infantry non-commissioned officer and officer with long front-line service during World War II in the Middle East, Pacific and European theatres of war and also that the Board acknowledges his distinguished contribution to the War Memorial and his distinguished wartime service? As  Mr Gullett  was ready, able and willing to continue as  Chairman  and was not barred by age, why did the Prime Minister have this gallant gentleman sacked? 
I believe that I am one person who can speak objectively when we are discussing this Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. I have no axe to grind. I have fought my last election and so I can look at this matter, I believe, without prejudice. I was rather surprised that when the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  introduced this legislation on the second occasion he made a very short speech. He said: . . . . in the light of the fact that many of the basic provisions of the Bill were similar to those in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 presented to this House, and read a second time, by the then Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir, on 31 March 1971. Thus the Opposition's attitude to the earlier Bill can only be described as incomprehensible. 
This is quite ludicrous. What he is saying is that because many or even some of the provisions in this Bill are similar to those in a Bill which was introduced by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  therefore the Opposition ought to vote for the whole of this Bill. As I say, of course this is quite silly. When introducing the Bill on the first occasion on 13 November 1974 the Minister said: 
The Bill is therefore far more substantial than that allowed to lapse in 1 97 1 by the coalition Government. 
That statement represents a complete volte-face from what lie has said now. 
I looked at the Bill very closely. I hope that every honourable member on this side of the Parliament has looked at it closely. It seems to me that there are 3 different types of amendment to the Act proposed by the Minister. Firstly- and all of us who know the Minister would suspect this- there are those amendments that are designed to assist the Labor Party vote. Secondly, there are debatable reforms with which some members of all parties would agree and with which some members of all parties would disagree. Thirdly, there' are minor sensible tidying up amendments to improve the Act. One could go through a long list of them. For example, they cover the position in which a candidate has changed his name within 12 months prior to his nomination. We have all seen cases in which someone has changed his name, perhaps to H. E. Holt, by deed poll. We want to stop these sorts of things. The amendments prevent a person enrolling or nominating under a changed name in certain circumstances and prevent a person nominating as a candidate for election in more than one Federal seat on the same day. Of course, this would be quite stupid. If a candidate won both elections he could not take up a position as a member for both seats. There would have to be a by-election. The amendments deal with the use of given names instead of Christian names. I am sure that all honourable members would agree with many of these things. 
The amendments about which I desire to speak are those in the first 2 categories, that is, those designed to assist the Labor vote and those debatable reforms with which some would agree and some would disagree. Amongst those changes that are designed to assist the Labor vote, of course, first and foremost comes the optional preferential marking of ballot papers. This is just an attempt to break down the preferential voting system. We know that Labor wants first past the post voting to be introduced. We know what an enormous advantage it would be to Labor if it introduced the first past the post voting system. The Labor Party is in power in England when it received something of the order of 35 per cent of the vote. How did it get into power? Of course, the combined vote for Liberal Party candidates and Conservative Party candidates would be well ahead of that for Labor party candidates. But Labor is ahead on the first count and therefore goes into office. I would never have come into this House if it had not been for the preferential voting system. There may be some people who say that this is an advantage of the first past the post system. Nevertheless, I am here because I received the preference of the other non-Labor non-socialist candidate. I say that this Bill represents an obvious attempt to try to break down preferential voting which I believe is the fairest system that one can possibly get anywhere in the world. 
Next, there is the question of an earlier deadline for the return of postal votes and for the return of those votes direct to the respective returning officers. I can see advantage in returning postal votes direct to the respective returning officers because this might save a little time instead of the votes being handed into an assistant officer in the United States of America, England or wherever it may be. But here again we have to look behind this and to read the mind of the Minister for Services and Property. He knows that the Opposition parties- the Liberal and Country Parties- get an advantage in postal voting. It is beyond dispute that in normal elections postal votes probably run 2 to 1 in favour of the Liberal Party. It may be that 66 per cent of such votes would favour the Liberal and Country Parties and 33 per cent would favour the Labor Party. Therefore, the Labor Party has always sought to do anything that it could to restrict or cut out postal voting. Postal voting is perfectly fair as long as it is properly policed as it should be and can be. But Labor would do anything to abolish it. 
I recall a by-election for the State seat of Albury. The sitting Labour Party member- I think this was in 1947- was defeated by the Liberal-Country Party candidate. The sitting Labor Party man was ahead when voting closed. But on the postal votes, Padman, the LiberalCountry Party candidate, got up and narrowly won the election by 150 votes. The Labor Party was in government in New South Wales at the time. It was so annoyed with this that it immediately changed the system and cut out virtually every form of postal voting. The result was that the Liberal and Country Parties would have won in 1950 but they had to wait until 1956 to win and to change the system to get back to a system under which any Australian is entitled to vote wherever he is in the world. This is what we on the Opposition side believe in. But the Labor Party does not because it knows it is disadvantaged by this system. It is proposed that instead of having up to 10 days after the end of voting for the postal votes to come in that postal votes should have to be in by the same time as the ballot closes on the Saturday night. 
Look at the ridiculous situation. Goodness knows, it is difficult enough now for people overseas to get their postal ballot papers, fill them in and post them back again and get them in in time. But where there is a short election campaign period- the tendency is for the elections to become shorter and shorter and I think this is a good tendency because people get to know the issues relatively quickly- this would mean that 10 days before an election was held a person who was overseas would have to post his vote. It is quite ludicrous. As I said, this proposal is only an attempt to increase the Labor proportion of the vote. We know that in the present system governments win or lose very narrowly. We know that in 1 96 1 40 votes in one electorate were enough to keep the Menzies Government in office. A proposal that deprives people of hundreds of postal votes that would run strongly in favour of the Liberal-Country Parties would help to keep an unpopular Labor Government in office against the will of the people generally. So we are strongly opposed to these 3 proposals. 
I come to the debatable reforms. There are some half dozen, such as the printing of party affiliation of candidates on ballot papers, registration of political parties and closing the polls at - 6/o 'clock rather than 8 o'clock. I know there is something to be said for 6 p.m. closing but on the other hand there are problems, particularly for those people of religious beliefs who cannot vote until after the sun goes down. There is the question of increasing the amount of deposit required. Pesonally I am all in favour of a deposit high enough to ensure that the no-hopers do not clutter up the ballot paper. In fact at present people get a financial taxation allowance out of being a candidate. If they have to pay a small deposit and they lose it they actually do better out of standing than not standing. So I am all in favour of a deposit that will be high enough to ensure that we do not get an enormous number of candidates, such as the 73 in the recent Senate election in New South Wales. This creates chaos. On the other hand, I do not think anyone would want the amount to be so high that a person who had a reasonable chance of winning an election if he stood would be excluded from doing so. 
There is also the proposal to preclude nomination for election to the Australian Parliament of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. I thought that any person who was a member of another Parliament- of course it depends whether one calls those Legislative Assemblies parliaments- who wanted to stand for the Federal Parliament would have to resign from a State Parliament in sufficient time to lodge his nomination. Of course this is a problem when an election is called without much notice and a member of a State Parliament desires to stand. He may have some difficulty in complying with the law. It is also proposed to change the qualifications for enrolment, voting and candidature from 'British subject' to 'Status of a British subject'. Quite frankly I have not the faintest idea what this means but it appears to me to be part of Labor's objective of undermining the Crown and the Commonwealth. 
Let me get back to the one important debatable reform, one with which I find myself at some difference with some members of my Party. I do not doubt that some people on the Government side are at odds with members of their Party. I refer to the question of whether party affiliations of candidates should be printed on ballot papers. The opponents of this proposed measure state that their objection is based on the legal difficulty of how one interprets who is a candidate for a particular party. If we have a case, for example, of a Liberal who has not been re-endorsed and who is or was entitled at one stage to stand again if he was the sitting member and who proposes to stand as an independent Liberal, how does one determine what the actual nomenclature for him should be on the ballot paper? I wonder how valid this argument is and whether we are not in this respect really making a mountain out of a molehill. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Office, the moment nominations have closed, distributes a list of the candidates throughout the length and breadth of Australia which gives party affiliations and states whether the candidate is an independent, or whatever the candidate himself has chosen to put. I honestly do not believe there would be the problems in this matter that many people see in it. On the other hand, there are enormous advantages. There is the clear indication of the party that one is voting for. Of course in a small metropolitan electorate all the booths are heavily manned and as one goes in one is given a how-to-vote paper. But this does not apply in many areas throughout the country and throughout the world. Imagine a person in, say, Fiji during the last election who got a ballot paper for the New South Wales Senate election with a list of 73 names. Who, unless he was a very close student of politics, could possibly know the party affiliations? The same thing applies in small country booths. I have a number in my own electorate and I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have many in your electorate, where there might be only 70 or 80 votes cast in a day. It is extremely difficult to get all these booths manned constantly throughout the full 12 hours. Therefore many people vote without knowing accurately who are the candidates and for what parties they stand. 
The same thing happens with absentee voting. I remember when I was voting absentee in Queanbeyan in a State election on one occasion a Liberal from Sydney came out of the booth and said to me: 'I do not know whether I voted for the Liberal candidate. All I knew was that I had a vague idea that so and so was the sitting Labor member so I put him number three. But there were 2 others and I did not know, quite frankly, who they were. I hope I voted for the right one. ' I said: 'I am afraid I cannot help you, I do not know either.' If this sort of thing applies to people who are reasonable students of politics, how much more must it apply to those who go into the booth with no previous knowledge? I am sure that this proposal should be introduced. I have maintained for years, ever since I have been a member of this House, that we ought to abolish the system of handing out how-to-vote cards and have the party affiliation on the ballot paper. It would certainly reduce the informal voting. 
We have been given as a reason or an excuse for not doing this: 'Oh, but it does not happen overseas. No one else does it. ' I find this is completely inaccurate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who is in the chamber now, will recall that he asked a question of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  when he was in charge of electoral matters and that it was answered in June 1970. In his reply the then Minister for the Interior said:  ... the following list includes those countries where the arrangement of lists or ballot-papers, or the method of voting, involve identification of the candidate by party. 
He proceeded with a list of 37 countries, some small and some we would not regard as really voting. Although one of them listed the name of the party on the voting papers there was only one party standing at the election. But many major countries were listed. I shall run quickly through the list. It states: 
Austria: Official ballot paper contains names of the parties. 
Germany (West): The ballot paper is official. It contains, for the election in the constituencies, the names of the candidates and their party. 
Ireland: At the April 1965 elections, for the first time in Irish political history the names of political parties were placed after candidates ' names- 
Italy: Ballot papers contain the symbols of the parties. 
So one could go on. One often finds, particularly in the undeveloped countries, that a symbol is used to enable people who are illiterate or semiliterate to identify their party. This happens in many cases. Even in the United States of America party identifications are usually shown on the ballot paper. So it is quite obviously wrong for people to suggest that Australia should not do this because other countries in the world do not do it. In any case, that is no reason to me. Australia led the world in some electoral reforms, and I believe that even if other countries do not do it we should lead the world. I stress strongly that we should look once again at this question of putting party affiliations on the ballot paper. I believe that it would reduce enormously the number of informals. There is no doubt that some people who will not say it publicly do say privately: 'But my party does better because it gets less informals than the other parties', or something of that sort. I do not know whether that is so. Certainly so far as the Liberal-Country Party is concerned, I have no doubt that we lose a large number of postal votes, from which we score heavily, because our people do not know the affiliation of the particular candidates for whom they are voting. 
There are aspects of this Bill with which one cannot help but be strongly in favour, and I congratulate the Minister and his officers for rectifying many of the minor faults. At the same time, there is also ho doubt that the 3 major matters that I mentioned are designed for only one purpose and that is to improve the vote of the Labor Party. There is another group of amendments about which we can have reasonable doubt, and no doubt these will be discussed at length both here and in the Senate. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: When will tenders be called for the supply of pipes for the natural gas spur line to Wagga? What size is this pipeline to be? Will it be.completed at the same time as the main line from Gidgealpa to Sydney? Can the Minister assure me that the cost per therm for natural gas will be no more at Wagga than at Sydney? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  started off by saying that the measures that he announced in November would take a considerable time to take effect and we are now beginning to see the upturn. I do not know whether the Prime Minister has sources available to him which I do not have available to me, but I have in front of me the latest bulletin of the 'Round-up of Economic Statistics' of early April 1975, issued by his own Treasury, and I can see very little sign in it of any beginning of an upturn. Let me read from it: 
The preliminary national accounts indicate that private growth fixed capital expenditure, seasonally adjusted and at constant prices, fell by 7.7 per cent in the December quarter; the fall over the year to the December quarter was 13.0 per cent. 
Seasonally adjusted and at constant prices, private investment in dwellings is estimated to have fallen by 2.6 per cent in the December quarter, bringing the decline- decline, mind you- over the year to 1 9.6 per cent. 
Investment in plant and equipment accounted for the bulk of the fall in private fixed investment in the December quarter. In seasonally adjusted constant price terms, investment of this nature is estimated to have fallen by 12.1 per cent in the December quarter following an increase of 7.2 per cent in the September quarter; there was a decline- 
A decline again- 
Over the year of 9.5 per cent. 
Yes. The value of private non-residential buildings approved in February at $47m was at its lowest level since January 1972. So one could go on. From where does the Prime Minister get this magnificent phrase, 'We are now beginning to see an upturn'? All that I thought the measures that were announced in November did was to countermand the measures announced in the Budget, which we were told at the time were essential if we were to control the economy and bring inflation under control. In other words the plan that was spelt out in August was completely in tatters by November and the final nail was driven into the coffin in January of this year. 
The Prime Minister said that the Labor Party certainly had been flexible. I will say it has been flexible. One only has to look at virtually every decision it has taken to see that it has gone back on its decision, after realising the disastrous effects it has had. The Government reversed its tariff decisions- its 25 per cent across the board cuts. The Government's great idea was: Let us bring in as much from overseas as we can and you will get cheaper cars and cheaper clothing. Now, with the car industry and textile industry in considerable difficulties, it has had to bring in restrictions and the Government is flexible. I refer to the sales tax cuts and the superphosphate bounty. No one knows what has happened to the superphosphate bounty; one moment it is on and the next moment it is off again, then it is on again. Then the matter is referred to a special committee and we are to receive a report later. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal was set up to squeeze prices, then suddenly we are told that profits are not necessarily bad; only excess profits are bad. Then there was the matter of the Reserve Bank deposit. First of all, 25 per cent of imported funds was to be placed, interest free, with the Reserve Bank. Then the amount was increased to 33-1/3 per cent, then reduced to 5 per cent. So one can go on. Foreign capital was quite unaccessible for any development of energy resources in Australia; now it is not necessarily unacceptable. The situation now is simply that when the resources are found they have to go to the Government. There was a devaluation at first, then another devaluation and then a revaluation. This is the most flexible government I have seen for a very long time because it does not really know where it is going. 
The Prime Minister said that the balance of payments is satisfactory. Again, he may have sources available to him that I have not. However, when we left government, we handed over well over $3,000m of reserves, one of the highest reserves that this country had ever had. I find that the balance of payments on current account in the 1974 calendar year shows, in the March quarter, a loss of $241m; in the June quarter a loss of $5 10m; in the September quarter an even greater loss of $60 8m; and in the December quarter a loss of $440m. But the Prime Minister says the balance of payments is satisfactory. In our balance of payments in the last 12 months there has been a total loss of $ 1800m, but this is said to be satisfactory. So one could go on. 
What has the present Government done? It took over an economy which was flourishing, a prosperous nation with virtually no unemployment, inflation running at 4.5 per cent and falling, interest rates moderate, business flourishing and confident, mining and oil exploration proceeding apace. Industrial turmoil was certainly present but it was being strongly contained and attacked by the then Government. What has this Government achieved after less than  2lA  years of its mismanagement of the economy? We have the highest unemployment since the depression. We were told that the Australian Labor Party will not tolerate unemployment, yet today 27 1 200 are unemployed, the highest number since the depression. What an extraordinary thing it is that the Government has managed to cajole, duchess, blackmail or pressurise the Press into disguising this fact. I have in front of me a cutting from the 'Sydney Morning Herald'- the same news item appeared in the 'Age' last week- which carries the big headline 'Number of jobless continues to fall'. It states: 
The employment situation continued to improve during March- 
Of course that looks very nice but it goes on to state: 
In seasonally adjusted terms, the level of unemployment rose by 1 1 7 10 to 27 1 1 6 1 , or 4.6 per cent of the workforce. 
The person who wrote this must have been duchessed or cajoled. It continues: 
This is considerably smaller than the February increase of 19 298- 
In other words, it states that the position is getting better because the rate of increase is not as bad as it was- the increase was only 1 1 000 as against 19 000 in February. The article continued:  . . . lending support to the Government's claim that its efforts to stimulate employment are having effect. 
I cannot see that the Prime Minister has any basis for saying that we are now beginning to see an upturn. We are beginning perhaps to see the upturn of the downturn- that is about all one can say. What has the Labor Party sought to do in order to contain these problems that are in front of it? As I mentioned, it has attempted to reverse the loss of confidence, the mounting unemployment and the stagnation by reversing some of its policies. It has set up the Regional Employment Development scheme. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  takes great pride in the fact that every month he is employing more people under the RED scheme. Surely it is an extraordinary attitude that because 5,000 more unemployed people are now employed under the RED scheme something really has been achieved. Look at the figures which were given to us in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). The amount for structural adjustment assistance, income maintenance, was estimated at $ 11m and it has gone up to $57m. In other words, we are now spending five times as much on income maintenance as the Government believed would be necessary for the financial year 1974-75 and which it made available in Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). The same thing applies in the Regional Employment Development scheme. Expenditure on it has gone up three and a half times. We are spending this year $ 1 80m on employing people who would not otherwise be employed. One would not mind if the Government really was achieving something. That is the thing that worries me. 
The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said only yesterday that he will go on printing bank notes as long as he can find a productive job for them. Can anyone tell me that things like building a secretary's office on a racecourse and building a 6Vi furlong track are productive? Is it productive to fence the Jindera Cemetery and to carry out maintenance on it? I am sorry I do not have further time to go through all the things being done which are completely unproductive. Why can we not adopt the system of planting forests, one which the New Zealanders employed during the depression? Those forests, are now bringing in vast sums of money. Why can we not go in for water conservation and road building? We are getting back to the old depression system whereby we paid people to move a pile of stones and then move it back again. I wish I had more time to answer what I was going to call the stupid speech of the Prime Minister, but perhaps to call it that would not be parliamentary. There are so many other points one could answer but I thank the House for the opportunity of at least saying a few words. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the criticism of his Department contained in paragraph 3.22.2 of the Report of the Auditor-General for the year ended 30 June 1974, drawing attention to the hire by his Department of a luxury vehicle for 19 months on a continuous basis at a cost of $6,778 plus petrol, without any justification of a requirement for this vehicle. 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Special Minister of State to Question No. 1862 on pages 4841 to 4847, Hansard, dated S December 1974. 
) For what purposes was this vehicle hired. 
Where was it normally situated. 
What official use was made of it during the period that it was under hire. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy a question. When replying to my question on 18 April about the natural gas spur line to Wagga did the Minister say: 
Some months ago I approached my Victorian counterpart and suggested to mm that in the national interest it might be appropriate if we were to consider a real interconnection of the proposed national natural gas grid, and for that purpose that we might construct a 20-inch line from Young down through Wagga and Albury to Melbourne. 
Did he go on to say: 
I got, frankly, quite a cool reception. A few weeks later it was announced, for reasons best known to the gentleman concerned, that the Victorian pipeline, which was to be of the order of ten or twelve inches in diameter, would be extended across the border to Albury . . . 
Did he agree on 15 March 1974 that he would arrange for technical experts from the Department of Minerals and Energy to visit the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria to discuss pipe sizes at an early date? Is he aware that  Mr Smith,  the  Chairman  of the Gas and Fuel Corporation, made 3 personal requests to his Department, but was unable to obtain the visit promised by the Minister? Was the Minister's reply to me an attempt to mislead the Parliament? 
I am anxious to speak in particular to clause 7 of the Bill which states: 
The function of the Office is, subject to and in accordance with this Act, to carry on, in Austrafia and elsewhere, the business of insurance. 
Normally I would have spoken during the debate on the motion for the second reading. I was listed to speak for my Party early in that debate but because of the way in which debate has been curtailed on this most momentous Bill, it was not possible for me to do so. I take the only other opportunity available to me to speak to this Bill. My speech, however, will be relatively short because of the curtailment of time on this clause. 
This is a momentous Bill which could change the whole pattern of Australian life. I ask the Government: Why has this legislation been introduced? Is it necessary? Is there any demand for it? Is this the correct time to introduce? The Government's attitude is that we have a Commonwealth Bank, why not have a Commonwealth Insurance Corporation? The Bill is to establish the Australian Insurance Corporation. Of course, when the Bill was introduced at the beginning of the week it was designed to establish the Australian Government Insurance Office. The legislation was rushed into this place to such an extent that the Government had not realised that its name would be mixed up with State Government insurance offices. Should not we have more time to consider this legislation? Will the Australian Government Insurance Corporation provide unfair competition for the 300 or more private insurance offices? 
The first thing that I want to say is this: For goodness sake, let us have more time so that we and the public can examine this legislation. I am glad to see that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is in the chamber now. It is most extraordinary that he did not introduce this Bill. It was introduced by, of all people, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  The Special Minister of State was, I think, in Machu Picchu in the Andes or somewhere else in that area on government business at the time this extremely important Bill was brought into the House. What has been the demand for this Bill? I am unable to find any pressure of any sort for the introduction of this legislation except some vague allusion to the need for a national disaster fund which was spoken about after both the Darwin and the Brisbane disasters. We know, of course, that the industry took the initiative after the Brisbane floods and, with the agreement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  said that it would examine the need for a national disaster fund. It has now concluded its examination. It has made a submission to the Treasury. I have not seen the submission, of course, but I understand that provided there is some discussion and agreement this could be implemented. So, the first and major reason given by the Government for implementing this legislation falls to the ground. 
Two other reasons were given by the Government for the introduction of this legislation. One was that it would help to reduce the flow of funds out of Australia referring, in particular, to some reinsurers. But we know that this is completely inaccurate. The situation is that there are 12 local reinsurers who are, in the main, subsidiaries of overseas companies. The oldest was established in Australia 16 years ago. Since that time the local reinsurers, far from exporting money as implied by the Special Minister of State, have lost more money on the claims than has been made on the premiums. In fact, many of them would not be still in operation were it not for the backing of their parent companies overseas and the spread of protection that they receive from a world-wide organisation. Most of the funds received by the reinsurers in Australia are not being repatriated but they are being invested in assets in Australia. So this second allegation is just a red herring. 
Thirdly, the reason given for the establishment of this Corporation is that there should be more competition and that this competition should be fair; it was necessary somehow to ginger up the private insurance companies and that the Corporation would do this. If it is done by cutting premiums, it will be done at the taxpayer's expense. The Government says it can invest the funds in a better way. No doubt the Government would invest the funds in socialist industries. Does anyone believe that the competition will be fair? People would be extremely naive to believe for a moment that there would be fair competition between the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and the private organisations. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the other day gave a long list of the ways in which competition will be completely unfair. As he mentioned, there will be no charge for fire brigade services which now run at about $66m a year of which the private insurers pay about four-fifths. 
There will undoubtedly be pressure by the Government for government business to go to this Corporation, particularly for public servants and the armed Services to insure with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Trade unions, of course, will put pressure on employers to use the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and not the private insurance companies. Will the 1973 Act be complied with? At the present moment even though this Act was passed by the present Government, one of its agencies, the Defence Service Homes Insurance Corporation, is now $1.3m in the red. It is insolvent. As I have said, it was set up by legislation introduced by this Government. The extraordinary point is that the Prime Minister told us only a few days ago what a great organisation it was. Yet, as I have said, it does not comply even with the present Government's Act. 
The Opposition wants to know whether the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will have to abide by the same margin as demanded by law of the private industry. What will happen with respect to preferential rates? Will there be unlimited government guarantees? We believe that there will be and that this will not make it necessary for the AGIC to have the backing that private companies are required to have. 
Those are the overt reasons, of course. It is the covert reasons that I believe are important because if the Corporation is being established only for the reasons that I have given and the Government has given there would be no need for such a Bill- it would not be necessary. The covert reasons are the ones that carry weight with the Australian Labor Party and in particular with the Caucus. This is the ritual way of implementing Labor's nationalisation policies. This is always hidden, of course, at election time. The Labor Party says: 'This has been in our platform since 1921, but do not worry about that. We have put it there, but it does not mean anything'. People have only just discovered that the gun was loaded. The second point, of course, is that it is the desire of the Government to destroy private enterprise as a means towards the socialisation of industry. Labor's first move was to set out to weaken the insurance industry, which has been one of the great bulwarks of private enterprise. It has done that by withdrawing the tax concessions that the Liberal-Country Party Government had given to the industry. We did not give those concessions to the industry because we liked the insurance companies; we gave them because we wanted to encourage saving and to encourage people to make provision for their own cover and for their own protection in order to relieve the Government of the need to make available some of the welfare provisions it would otherwise have to make available and to assist in the raising of loan funds for government, commerce and industry. Of course the present Government wants to control those funds; so it has set about weakening the insurance companies by withdrawing many of the tax concessions that had been given. 
The Corporation will undoubtedly increase the competition because any share of the market it gets will mean that there will be a smaller market left for the 300 private companies. That must mean more competition and that must mean, of course, that the private companies will have to employ fewer people. There will be some unemployment. Smaller bonuses already have been made available by the industry. In addition, of course, the Government is planning to introduce a national superannuation scheme and a national compensation scheme. When one adds to all of that the fact that increased inflation and increased costs are making it more and more difficult for the companies one sees the situation in which these companies find themselves. Even granted that the idea is a sound one- I do not for one moment believe that it is necessary; there is no reason for us to expect the reforms that will be brought in by the Corporation- is this the time to introduce legislation of this sort? Vast costs will be incurred in the setting up of an Australian Insurance Corporation. If ever there was a time when restraint was needed it is now. The Prime Minister has already acknowledged that. He has asked every Minister to show ways in which he could reduce the expenditure of his department by 5 per cent, 10 per cent and 15 per cent. There has been a call for wage restraint. Yet we have at this very time a situation arising in which vast sums are to be expended on the proposal which is now before us. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. When he and his colleagues made the disastrous decision to reduce the wool floor price by 50c a kilogram, had the Cabinet been informed that such a decision would have a calamitous effect on wool marketing for some time to come? Was Cabinet warned that such a decision could lead to buyers refusing to buy until the next wool selling season while producers would seek to sell all wool they possibly could before the end of June while the higher floor price existed? Has he heard that one futures market is closed while another has dropped 5c a kilogram, the maximum amount permissible in one day's trading? Will he ask the Minister for Agriculture, whom he represents in this House, to review the Cabinet decision in view of the chaos it has caused among producers and users of wool? 
-The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  said that there is a safeguard in this Bill, namely that the proposed Advisory Committee on Procurement will contain a member of the Parliament from the Government side and a member of the Parliament from the Opposition side. That statement absolutely staggers me. What is there that a member of Parliament would know about purchasing of vast orders? I suppose honourable members would know how to purchase stamps and probably how to purchase a meal for one of their constituents, but it is absolutely ludicrous to think that we will find members of Parliament with the necessary experience in the purchasing field to sit on this Committee. 
I am absolutely horrified by this Bill. I support very strongly the views that have been put by my colleague, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  that the Bill needs a thorough study. I also support the amendment which he has moved. As one who is not without some ministerial experience I am absolutely horrified and staggered at the size and the ramifications of this proposed Commission. It is to operate a central procurement and disposals organisation which will buy and sell for virtually every government department and for at least 28 government commissions, authorities and agencies, such as Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, the Austraiian National Line, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Atomic Energy Commission. What an enormous organisation this will be. At the present moment the Post Office is probably the largest purchasing agency in Australia, yet it is to be only one of a vast number of departments for which this Commission will buy. The Department of Defence is another very large purchasing agency. Yet it is proposed that this one Commission will purchase -I hope it is correct to say- something like onequarter or one-third of everything bought or sold in Australia. 
The Commission will be able to purchase even on its own behalf. Why on earth does it need to purchase on its own behalf? Does it need to buy some paper, ink, a few stamps or such things, or will it purchase goods and then flog them around? Does the Commission come under the powers of the Trade Practices Act? I believe it does not. If this is so, it will be able to engage in practices which are illegal now for any private enterprise. I refer to a practice such as forced line feeding. The Department will say: 'All right, we will let you have this provided you take so many of the other articles which we have bought and which we have not been able to get rid of to other government departments'. The Commission will nave virtually the power of life and death over firms. This is a tremendous power which it will possess. As I have said, the Commission will be by far the largest purchaser in Australia. It will purchase a vast range of goods. What enormous power over industry this gives it. In a large field it will be the only buyer. It will make the decisions. As has been said by my colleague who spoke before me, it will make decisions not only over what is the best value for the money available here or overseas but also, no doubt, it will take into account the implementation of socialist policies. Will the Commission purchase from government factories or from private factories? Of course the tendency will be to purchase from government factories. It will be able to force trade union policies, worker participation and policies on Australian ownership. This will be so even if the firm from which the Commission is buying does not produce the most effective article. It will be able to force a policy of producing in a certain area. Perhaps one of the two members of Parliament on the Commission might find that a factory in his area is not going very well. He might say: 'Let us see whether we cannot purchase from factories in that area'. The Commission will be able to force conditions of equal pay, conditions for women and all these sorts of social policies rather than do as purchasers for the Government do now, that is, buy where they can get the best value for money. The proposed Commission does not have to buy what the user department wants. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in his second reading speech stated:  the Commission will be required to consult with, and have regard to, the views of the user . . . 
This does not mean that the Commission has to buy what the user wants. We could well get the extraordinary position to which my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  drew my attention. According to a news release which was issued over the Australian Broadcasting Commission on Sunday night, this is what happened in an area of government where purchaser and user are separate, where they do not get together and work closely. The news item stated: 
It has been disclosed in London that 80 new train coaches ordered for the city's underground network have been built too big to go through the tunnels. 
This is the sort of thing we get when there is government purchasing. The item stated: 
A London transport spokesman - 
I think one newspaper article stated that it was an embarrassed London transport spokesman- said workmen were lowering tracks on the line so that the new coaches would fit. The spokesman, who declined to estimate the cost of rectifying the mistake, said the coaches were among 800 being built by a British engineering firm for a total of nearly A$50m. 
That is the sort of thing we get when we have a vast organisation doing the purchasing. As I have said, the Commission does not have to buy what the user department wants. It only has to have regard to it. Of course it has to have regard to so many other things. If a dispute arises on the ground of technical suitability of the goods, the Minister tells us it is true that the user's views are to prevail. Of course this situation can be overridden immediately because the Minister states: 
. clause 17 which empowers the Minister to give directions to the Commission. 
In other words, the Minister can override anything which the user department wants. What enormous opportunities there are under this Bill for political patronage or, I go so far as to say, even for corruption, graft or bribes. What opportunities for union pressure so that the Commission buys not the best but something made in a particular area of Australia or something made in Australia, as a result of which we could finish up getting the Wirraway instead of the Spitfire because the Wirraway was made in someone's electorate in Melbourne. This would centralise and slow down the policy of making purchases and it would reduce the freedom of action by departments. 
I recall that when I became Minister of one department I discovered that most of the department was in Canberra, although it was in 17 different locations, but the people who did the purchasing were still in Melbourne because the head of the purchasing organisation was to retire fairly soon and he did not want to move to Canberra. He said: 'I am staying here', and his organisation stayed there. The result was that it used to take me from 10 days to a fortnight to get even a bottle of glue. Is this the sort of situation we will have under this system, with a vast organisation buying all the pots of glue and all the bottles of ink for the Australian Government? I can see this happening. How do we get the best technical advice into such a large, unwieldy body. There are many highly technical areas in the Services and in the PostmasterGeneral's Department and this Commission will be purchasing high quality equipment. The Commission can and undoubtedly will ask the views of the departments. But it is a different matter if the department itself is doing the purchasing. That department knows what it wants and what is best. It can negotiate without any of those other pressures of social welfare and goodness knows what else. How will the proposed Commission negotiate such things as the offset programs? 
I think one of the great successes of the previous Government was that when it purchased equipment overseas- as it had to do very often- it negotiated with the government concerned and said: 'All right, we will buy from you on the condition that you buy some offset product from us*. So we were making tails for the Boeing 707 aircraft and this sort of thing. Something like $30m-worth of additional work for Australian factories has come about through this offset program. For the life of me I cannot see how a big, unwieldy Commission such as this could negotiate the offset programs. Such a program enables a department to negotiate prices. It can beat a purchaser down and obtain prices which are perhaps lower than those charged to some other department. Once again we will see another committee set up to add to the dozens of such committees set up by this Government. I refer to the Advisory Committee on Procurement. As I have mentioned already, it is to have 2 members of Parliament as members. They will be great experts with enormous commercial wisdom, no doubt! Also, another permanent head is to be created. As if we do not have enough of them already. At what cost another - 
Well, I agree that they should be limited as much as possible. By this Bill the Government is producing one more head of a body and is not doing anything more than it was doing previously. The setting up of this Commission will involve the employment of more commissioners. The Bill provides for a right of appeal to an ombudsman. Goodness knows how long this will take or what an ombudsman would know of the purchasing field. Purchases could be delayed for weeks, months or even years if people have a right of appeal to an ombudsman. 
There are other countries which have much larger purchases than Australia. Yet, I have been unable to find that the United Kingdom, the United States of America or Canada has one commission which does all the purchasing. Of course, there is not such a commission. Individual departments must have some freedom to use their own expertise and their own technical knowledge to get the best that they possibly can. I feel that this Bill is completely unnecessary. It is, of course, a step in the direction of socialism. This Bill is based on a recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy. 
It has been treated as holy writ. I will come to the question asked by the honourable member for Shortland now. It is well known, of course, that one can get from a committee what one wants. The honourable member for Shortland has referred to the fact that  Sir Walter  Scott was the  Chairman  of the Committee. Professor Wheelwright, who is a well known socialist, was a member of the Committee. I am sure that he would not hesitate to put forward a socialist view. I would like to know what sort of commercial experience Professor Wheelwright has had. 
Yes. I tried to find out what commercial expertise the other members have had. I went through the 'Business Who's Who of Australia' and the ordinary 'Who's Who in Australia'. I could not find any mention of the other 2 members. I have no knowledge of whether they are capable. They may be extremely capable and competent businessmen. On the other hand, they may simply be people who have degrees. After all, as one who has a degree I know that one does not have to be too brilliant to get one. This report comes up with ifs and buts. It poses all the reasons why a Purchasing Commission should be established and why it should not be established. It even has a paper submitted by  Ms Reid.  She has written a long paper which I have not had time to read fully. It seems to me to argue that tenders should be rejected by the Stores and Tender Board if they are from a firm that is not certified as having no discriminatory practices against women. Of course, there will be an army of public servants going through every factory that is likely to supply anything from a button or a needle to an aeroplane, to see whether there are discriminatory practices against women. 
There are strong arguments for and against a centralised purchasing body. In its report the Committee stated that it sought the opinions of all purchasing authorities and agencies of the Australian Government, as well as industry, in assisting it to reach a decision as to what changes should be recommended to the existing policies and organisational arrangements. The report states: 
There has been almost universal SUpport for a central group to establish and co-ordinate purchasing policies and principles. 
My information is different. I have discussed this matter with only a few people. There has been almost universal lack of support amongst those with whom I have discussed the matter. I should like to see the people who produced this report produce a list of those who put in submissions and those who opposed the establishment of this central body. No doubt there are reasons that one could put on paper indicating why we should have this enormous monolith; but there are many arguments against it, and they are listed by the Committee. The report states that a centralist agency would largely replace the direct dealings between the supplier and the user. Of course, that is where a situation can arise in which trains are purchased which will not go through the tunnels through which they are built to go. 
One could speak at great length on this Bill. I do not think there is any need for me to refer to any more of these extraordinary recommendations. This Purchasing Commission is completely different from anything previously contemplated within Australia. Many avenues need to be looked at. The Opposition cannot be expected to accept this Bill and pass it within a matter of days. I, therefore, support very strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  to the effect that we delay this Bill until we have had an opportunity to study it much more closely. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 10 August 1973 that lack of information was one of the reasons necessitating the introduction of export controls on all minerals. 
Prior to the introduction of the controls, had any companies refused to supply his Department with information concerning prices or other details of export contracts. 
If so, what information was sought and refused. 
What are the names of the companies which have refused to supply information. 
Was the achievement of reasonable export prices in relation to prices obtained by other countries an objective of the controls. 
At the time the general controls were introduced, were any Australian minerals being exported at prices below world parity. 
If so, what minerals and what companies were involved. 
What were the prices being obtained and what was world parity at the time in each case in part (7). 
On what basis was world parity calculated or estimated in each case. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 31 January 1973 that relevant Ministers had been authorised by Cabinet to initiate discussions with the relevant State authorities, proprietors and unions to devise ways and means of assuring the orderly development of mineral industries in the best interests of Australia. 
Was the Australian Minerals Council established to facilitate co-operation between the Australian and State Governments in the promotion of the general welfare and progressive development of the Australian mineral industry. 
Is he the  President  of the Council. 
How many meetings of the Council have taken place since 2 December 1972. 
) What subjects were discussed at these meetings. 
When will the next meeting be held. 
Were all State Governments consulted by him prior to the decision to establish the National Pipeline Authority. 
If not, which State Governments were not consulted, and why. 
Have all State Governments and their instrumentalities engaged in power generation and gas supply been consulted on their future requirements for, and sources of, natural gas and/or nuclear power. 
If not, which Governments and instrumentalities have not been consulted, and why. 
Will the State Governments be represented on the proposed Fuel and Energy Authority; if not, why not. 
What does he regard as the respective roles of the Commonwealth and the States in the formulation of minerals policy. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that on Tuesday two of his Ministers were asked an almost identical question on the undertaking given to the Returned Services League that there would be an RSL nominee on the board of the Australian Housing Corporation? Is he aware that  Senator Cavanagh  said, and I quote from  Hansard. 
I believe an undertaking was given by a previous Minister that there would be a representative of the RSL on such a body. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development said: 
At no time was there any comment by the Government- 
Again, I am quoting from  Hansard - 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
How many Second Division officers hold positions at Level 3 (First Assistant Secretary) and above in his Department and the National Pipeline Authority. 
How many of these officers held positions at the same levels in the previous Department of National Development. 
Excluding officers in part (2), (a) how many of these officers have technical qualifications in geology, mining, engineering, metallurgy or mineral economics, and what are their names and qualifications, (b) how many, prior to their appointment to his department, had had experience in the formulation or administration of policies relating to mineral development or marketing, and what are their names and the details of the relevant experience and (c) how many had, at any time prior to their appointment, occupied positions in the Public Service or in statutory authorities in which the present Secretary of his Department held a senior position. 
How many officers of the former Department of National Development have been promoted to Level 3 and above in his Department 
I want tonight to draw the attention of the House to the recent attacks by the Government and in particular by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the 
Returned Services League. This organisation I have always believed to be one of the finest organisations in Australia. It is composed wholly of those who served their country overseas. Many of the colleagues of these members and their friends paid the supreme sacrifice in defence of their country and of freedom. Of course this Government and the new trendies denigrate and attempt to blacken the reputation of people who are public spirited enough to be prepared to die for their country. According to the socialist Left and the communists in Australia loyalty and patriotism are things to be laughed at. They belong to a bygone era. Only in communist countries is it still the custom to have patriotism and to love one's country. So it has now become fashionable to attack the RSL as putting forward views which are out of step with modern thinking. The Government and the Prime Minister in particular are in the vanguard of those making these attacks. 
I want tonight to make these 2 points: Firstly, the RSL has every right and, in fact, every duty to see that the needs of those who suffered for their country are taken care of and also to see that the defences of our country are in as good a condition as we can possibly afford for them to be. After all, many of the members of the RSL know what it is like to go into action with inadequate or outdated equipment. Secondly, this organisation, the RSL, is not a collection of old 'Colonel Blimps' who are out of step with modern thinking. Many of those in the organisation are members of the younger generation who saw action in Malaysia, Korea or in Vietnam. 
What makes the Prime Minister think that he is the greatest and he leads a with-it trendy government while ex-servicemen younger than he are called fanatical and intolerant? However, before I come to the disgraceful and quite vindictive attack made on the RSL by the Prime Minister I bring up the case of the broken promises to the RSL on the Australian Housing Corporation. On 4 March of this year the then Minister for Housing and Construction, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  when speaking on the Australian Housing Corporation Bill, said: 
I have been asked to give an assurance about how this legislation will affect the provisions that at present prevail in regard to the defence service homes scheme. The Defence Service Homes Act remains intact in every shape and form. It is not to be diminished, nor is the enthusiasm of the Government for the provision of houses for servicemen to be diminished in any way. 
He went on to say: 
It might be appropriate for me to tell the Committee, as a consolidation of that enthusiastic attitude that I have indicated, that it is my intention to provide on the board of the Corporation a representative of the Returned Services League so that the interests of ex-servicemen can be effectively safeguarded. 
This was from the honourable member for Hughes,  Mr Les  Johnson. 
Speaking for the Government he said: . . . it is my intention to provide on the board of the Corporation a representative of the Returned Services League so that the interests of ex-servicemen can be effectively safeguarded. 
There was a clear and unequivocal promise in black and white to the RSL. When it was broken flagrantly by the successor to the honourable member for Hughes, naturally questions were asked. In the Senate,  Senator Cavanagh  replied: 
I believe an undertaking was given by a previous Minister that there would be a representative of the RSL on such a body. 
He was referring, of course, to the Australian Housing Corporation. Yet in this House the new Minister in charge of this area, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  said: 
The Government has no commitment in this respect . . . At no time was there any commitment by the Government to the RSL. 
In view of those conflicting statements, I spoke to the Prime Minister and pointed out in Hansard the promise made by the honourable member for Hughes. I received from the Prime Minister the amazing reply that the honourable member for Hughes had no authority to give that undertaking. 
Of course he was. What an amazing situation! Apparently, if a Minister of the Crown gives an undertaking in the area for which he is responsible, we should not take it as gospel; we should first check with someone else to. see whether he had authority to give that undertaking. To the best of my knowledge, the promise made by the honourable member for Hughes has never been withdrawn; yet the Minister in charge of defence service homes, the honourable member for Reid, has said that at no time was there any commitment by the Government to the RSL. All I can say is that perhaps the English language no longer means what it says. But perhaps this is a relatively small matter and, after all, the breaking of one promise more or less will not cause this Government or the Prime Minister to lose any sleep. 
I want to refer now to the vicious and quite unprovoked attack on the RSL by the Prime Minister in Sydney on 1 1 August at the World Congress and Assembly of War Veterans. I will ignore the tastelessness and the timing of his speech. It was a World Congress and Assembly of War Veterans aimed at promoting peace and international good will and the RSL was host to 38 countries and to the Prime Minister. What the Prime Minister said was quite unforgiveable. The RSL was accused of intolerance and fanaticism and of using the slogans of the fifties and the catchcry of cold war ideology. One of my parliamentary colleagues was more tolerant towards the Prime Minister than I am. Although he agreed that it is unspeakably vulgar for any guest to insult his host in the presence of other guests, he said that probably the speech was written for the Prime Minister and he had not read it before he delivered it. If that is so, it is a pity is was not left in the car, as was the speech for a recent meeting in Melbourne. The Prime Minister said: 
All too rarely the sentiments and opinions of the RSL strike a chord with contemporary generations. 
Does that mean that the RSL should not complain when it sees members of the contemporary generation in dirty clothes, unkempt and with long matted hair, and that it should not complain of drug taking or of bludgers who refuse to work and instead get social security benefits? Should the RSL be happy at the state of our shrinking deomoralised defence forces or should it remind the public of its motto: 'The price of freedom is eternal vigilance'? 
The Prime Minister feels that, as a member of the RSL for the past 30 years, he has every right to attack it. Yet what right has Brian Harradine had to say what he thought of the Australian Labor Party? He has been expelled. Many of the 270 000 members of the RSL think that the same thing should happen to the Prime Minister. The Liverpool Branch of the War Widows Association has called on the Prime Minister to resign from the RSL. It is investigating, in my opinion quite rightly, ways of having him hand in his badge. A former Navy man in Newcastle, who had 3 ships sunk under him during World War II, said that he has always voted Labor but he never will again. In conclusion, let me say that this large and, I believe, highly respected organisation is entitled to an apology from the Prime Minister, and then in all conscience he should resign from it. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the latest available figures published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Bureau of Mineral Resources relating to the percentage value of production of the Australian mining and minerals processing industry which is attributable to overseas ownership. 
Has the Government agreed that this percentage should not increase. 
Would the percentage referred to in part (1) increase if, other things being equal, production from an existing foreign-owned mine, i.e. with a greater percentage of foreign ownership than the total in part ( 1 ), were to increase. 
If so, what measures have been introduced or are proposed, to prevent any such increases in production. 
Are foreign-owned companies, as defined in part (3), already established in Australia permitted to embark on new mining and /or mineral processing ventures. 
If so, would this result in an increase in the percentage referred to in part ( 1 ). 
If not, is there an absolute prohibition or would approval be given on compliance with certain conditions. 
If the latter, what are the conditions. 
Does the Government impose any restrictions on the granting of mining tenements directly to overseas-owned companies. 
10) Is there a ban on farm-ins where these would result in any dilution of Australian equity in mineral tenements. 
If so, under what legislative authority is the ban imposed. 
Does the 23 per cent Reserve Bank deposit requirement for funds from abroad apply to funds used for mineral exploration where the funds are not loans and do not involve changes in inter-company indebtedness. 
Have any exemptions from Reserve Bank deposit requirements been made for funds destined for any mining or mineral processing ventures. 
If so,' what were the projects, what sums were involved, and what were the circumstances justifying the exemptions. 
I should like to support the remarks that have been made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in regard to questions in the Parliament. I think it is obvious to everyone that the present situation is most unsatisfactory. We on the Opposition side had a small committee which looked into a number of aspects to see what could be done to improve the situation. The first thing that we came to realise was that there was this completely unsatisfactory situation. We average in this House about 14 to 16 questions a day. This morning we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  give a long and fairly irrelevant answer to a question which reduced the number of questions available to honourable members. 
I ran a trial on the number of questions asked during a period in the autumn session last year. I found that over a 7-week period a back bencher of the Opposition averaged about 1  Vi  questions and a back bencher of the Government averaged about 3 questions during the same time. This is completely unsatisfactory. Of course, the difference in the figures is caused partly by the fact that there are more back benchers on the Opposition than on the Government and also that the Leaders and Deputy Leaders of the 2 Opposition Parties are entitled to ask questions when they stand, just as the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Australian Labor Party, when in Opposition, were entitled to do this. They used that entitlement and as a result asked many of the questions which came from the Opposition. Let me compare this situation in the Australian Parliament in which 14 to 16 questions are asked in the 45 minutes available for question time- 850 to 900 questions per annum- with the situation that applies in the House of Commons. In the House of Commons in 1971, 15 107 questions were tabled for oral answer. Of those about one-third- just under 5000 questions- were answered. In addition, approximately 8000 supplementary questions were answered. The House of Commons has been known to process 28 000 questions in one year. Of course, not all of them are asked orally. Some of them are placed on the notice paper. But I ask honourable members to compare this situation with the 850 to 900 questions asked in the Australian Parliament each year. It shows how completely inadequate our present system is. 
In the House of Commons, questions upon notice are answered and must be answered within 7 days. There is a question on our notice paper at the moment which has been there since July 1974. 1 received an answer only in the last two or three weeks to a question which I directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and which I placed on the notice paper during the 28th Parliament. It was replaced on the notice paper in the 29th Parliament and I received an answer about two or three weeks ago. Of course, there would have to be limits. One of the troubles was that the present Prime Minister, when he was Leader of the Opposition, placed a vast number of questions on the notice paper designed, I believe, to clog up the works of Parliament It was quite impossible for that number of questions to be answered. I am sure that the Prime Minister- the Leader of the Opposition as he then was- did not even require an answer to many of them. But a limit would have to be imposed on the number of questions asked and on the length of the questions. In the House of Commons, I think, approximately 70 words are allowed in a question upon notice. At the present time, there is a question on our notice paper which contains 1093 words. 
What can be done to improve the situation at question time? We could increase the length of question time. I do not doubt that in time as this Parliament undertakes more and more work it will be necessary for it to sit longer hours. Possibly this will mean sitting more days than it sits at present. It would be possible to sit longer hours in the day provided we were prepared to do as the House of Commons does, namely, sit through the meal adjournment without the can.ing of quorums, thus allowing members to continue speaking. Of course, we have to realise that if this were done many officers of the House would not be able to handle the additional sitting time. Therefore, this would mean the employment of additional staff- for example,  Hansard  reporters- and an increase generally in the staff assisting us. There could be a reduction in the length of ministerial replies to questions asked. Going through a few questions to which long answers were given during August I found that in reply to one question the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  spoke for 16 minutes. Finally, the answer was ended by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who leads for the Opposition in matters affecting the conduct of the House, moving that the Minister be no longer heard. That was the longest answer. It is not unusual to receive replies from Ministers which take 10 or 1 1 minutes. I think that the Prime Minister's reply this morning which, as I have said, was irrelevant could have gone close to 10 minutes. It would be possible to time the answers. Admittedly, this would not be easy to do but it could be done. 
There could be a reduction in the number of questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  But I think that we in the Opposition would say that these people should be entitled to ask questions when they deem it necessary to ask them. Provided they use this right with discretion, I do not think that anybody in the Opposition would cavil at it. Standing order 145, which deals with the relevancy of questions could be strengthened. As honourable members will know, at the present time standing order 145 states that an answer shall be relevant to the question. It has been suggested by my colleague, the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  that this might be expanded to say: 'An answer shall be relevant to the question and shall not debate the subject matter of the question. If in the opinion of the  Speaker  the answer is unduly protracted, he may direct that the answer be completed'. A standing order framed along those lines would give the  Speaker  more strength when it comes to sitting down Ministers who on many occasions give replies which are much longer than necessary. 
We can look at the Westminster system generally in this regard. Of course, the problem in Australia is that our debates are broadcast. Thus, what is done in the Westminster system would not be immediately applicable because questions are placed on notice and a number is called. The member rises and says: 'I ask the Minister question No. 200 ', or whatever it is. That would mean nothing to the people who were listening to the radio broadcast. I mentioned that the system of asking questions upon notice could and should be improved. Firstly, it should be improved by much quicker replies secondly, it should be improved by imposing some limitation on both the number of questions and on the length of the questions. It would be possible to give more questions to the Opposition members. This view was put by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who moved when he was in Opposition that because there were more back benchers on the Opposition side than on the Government side, more questions should be given to the Opposition. The matter was put to the Standing Orders Committee but it did not accept the recommendation then. I say that the Standing Orders Committee is a quite unsuitable body to look at the subject of questions asked in this House because, firstly, it is composed of senior officers who are extremely busy and who do not get the time necessary to look at these various alternatives; secondly, of course, they meet very rarely. I think that what we should do is set up a Select Committee of the Parliament This was done in the House of Commons which is not 100 per cent certain that it has the right system. It set up a Select Committee in 1971 which reported and made some valuable suggestions. I believe that this is a matter upon which both sides of the chamber could agree. After all, we are here today in Parliament and gone tomorrow or on the Opposition side today and in government tomorrow. I think that all of us have to look at the matter from this point of view: How do we get more questions for private members of Parliament? How do we get more accurate replies? At the present moment, many of the answers given by Ministers to questions asked without notice are not accurate. They cannot be, because a Minister cannot be expected to know everything that goes on in his Department. On the other hand, if he has time to prepare an answer and go over it with his Department, perhaps we will receive more accurate answers and more of them. 
This Government has been a - 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Katter's) be agreed to. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  in speaking on solar energy dealt with a most interesting topic. By all means let us do as I certainly did when I was Minister and as I know my successors did- let us do everything to discover and assess all the means of power and of energy that we have available in this country. They include, of course, solar energy, hydroelectric power, fossil fuel, oil from coal, nuclear energy, tidal power, the lot. Of course, in the near future we have to rely mainly on the conventional fuels that we have at present- coal, natural gas, hydro-electricity and petroleum. Doubtless these will be followed in the very near future by nuclear power. I understand the United Kingdom is already obtaining something like 17 per cent of its power from nuclear sources. 
Let us get back to the present. My friend, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  said that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was living in the 1930s. For once I disagree with the honourable member for Stirling; I think the Minister is living in the 1 850s. I can see in the present situation the era of the Eureka Stockade- the idea that profits are bad and the bigger the profit the worse it is. How on earth does any mine develop? How does one drill for oil and spend the enormous amounts of money that are necessary to look for these things unless one occasionally has a chance of making a profit? Who sheds a tear here for the companies that have invested millions of dollars in Australia and discovered nothing? I am informed that about 20 overseas companies have invested something like $233m in Australia and that not one of those 20 companies has one producing mine. Of course we hear of the Utah Development Corporation because it makes a profit- and profits are bad. 
This Government has been a disaster. I think that is agreed to by virtually everyone. The polls show that the support for the Labor Party is probably the lowest it has been since Federation. Of course the greatest disaster area in this disaster Government is in the field of minerals and energy. We handed over a prosperous and expanding mining industry in the 1960s and the early 1970s. We were responsible for some 34 major projects throughout Australia at a cost of something like $6,000m. This was the greatest period of expansion of our mining industry. As many as 22 new mining towns were developed. But what has happened to this vast head of expansionary steam? It has been sat upon and stifled by our present Minister,  Mr Connor.  Let us look at some of his 'achievements' because when I look at major new mining projects I discover that not one major mining project has been committed since November 1972. The largest, and possibly the only, project is a new mine at Duchess in Queensland at a cost of about $40m. We all know that our Liberal-Country Party Government discovered this deposit. In fact I was the Minister for National Development at the time it was discovered. It is an extremely interesting story which unfortunately I have not got time to tell at present. 
As I say, there has not been one new major project in the term of this Government. But consider the list of major projects that have been deferred or cancelled since December 1972. In the uranium field alone a total of at least 5 projects were deferred or cancelled in that period. At least four of these projects are commercial but the companies are forbidden to negotiate export contracts. What on earth for? One of my friends said today that this is an indication of the squirrel mentality, and it is. We have at least 200 000 tons of uranium known in Australia. Our requirements are presently estimated to be 33 000 tons up to the end of this century. So we have this vast amount of uranium which could be sold for the use of the world and for the profit to . Australia. Yet is is just kept in the ground because of this squirrel mentality. So one can go through the different projects, for coal, bauxite and all the other products that we have heard about tonight, that have been cancelled, delayed or abandoned. I mention Redcliffs and the Agnew nickel project. We have just heard that there is a possibility that the Robe River pellet project will go ahead. If it does it will be the first major project in 3 years under this Government. Of course much of the spade work was done when we were in government. The Gladstone aluminium smelter was abandoned and taken to the Philippines. I mention also Blair Athol coal and the Jumbo steel works. 
Look at them all- not one new major contract has been written in either iron ore or uranium. The Italians wanted a 10 per cent interest in one of our uranium fields. This would have been ideal because it would have tied them to us as buyers. But no, the present Government would not allow them to do this. In iron ore we have not written new contracts, although we have expanded on the existing contracts. There is one letter of interest- that is all one can call it- in the last 3 years, but that is all that has happened under this Government. 
The situation is even more disastrous when one considers the search for oil and natural gas. These products are among the most urgently needed in Australia to ensure self-sufficiency. As a result of the work that was done by this Government to find oil we are today saving foreign exchange to the extent of $ 1,300m per annum. But all that has been completely wound down and abandoned. Look at the figures. In 1969 322 wells were drilled, either for exploration or development of oil and natural gas. In the first half of this year 16 wells were drilled and the Government thinks there will be 3 1 wells for the full year. That is shocking. Even the last of our seismic vessels has gone overseas because there is no work for it here. I think we have 3 rigs, which is an improvement; at one stage we had only one rig on shore that was active. I believe that we now have three, although there is some doubt about this. I think one of them may be in New Zealand. But we have a total of 14 rigs idle. 
Yet we are told- where the Minister gets this information from I am at a complete loss to understand- that we have not got any oil, that it is no good looking for it in Australia because there is not any on-shore and there is not any on the north-west shelf and you have to go right out deep into the ocean to find it. But we have only just scratched the surface. Look at the United States which is of a similar size and of similar geology. It has an enormous amount of drilling going on every day and is discovering new wells, both for oil and natural gas, on shore. We know that we have at least 4 wells today which are not commercial propositions at the present price but which would be commercial at lower prices than this country is paying to import oil from the Arabs. What a ludicrous situation. We will pay the Arabs money that we will not pay the Australians. We could save on exchange and also produce a good deal more employmentgoodness knows we need it at the present moment. 
What an absolute tragedy this Minister has been. As a result of his being Minister we find the Melbourne Stock Exchange index of all oil and gas stocks has gone down 50 per cent and the Stock Exchange index of all mining stocks has gone down 40 per cent. The extraordinary thing is that he says he is doing this to make our resources available to Australians. But if we look at the latest figures available, and unfortunately they are not nearly as recent as I should like, we see that there is no doubt whatsoever that whilst overseas direct investment in Australian mining industry was going down- it dropped from 44 per cent to 37 per cent, in other words it dropped 7 per cent between 1968 and 1972- it has gone up since. Yet here is the Minister saying that he is buying back the farm. 
We are lucky that the situation is coming to an end. The Whitlam Government is running out and so is the Minister. I understand that the Minister was born in January 1 907, which makes him almost 69 years old. I understand also that the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales does not accept nominations from someone who is 67 years old. AU I can say is: Thank God that will be the end of this Minister. Six nuclear bombs dropped on the mining industry of Australia could not have done as much damage as this Minister has done. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory has before it today a report sent to it by one of his Ministers which would, if adopted, make incest legal in the Australian Capital Territory if committed by adults over the age of 18 years? Who was the twisted mind responsible for this draft of the working party on territorial criminal law? Are there no depths of degradation to which his Government will not descend? 
