by leave - The Opposition welcomes the Government's announcement of the extension of the activities of the Australian National Line into yet another overseas section of our trade. This is a form of activity that the Opposition has been advocating for many years. We have urged that the Australian National Line should be permitted to extend its activities and we hope that with this fourth extension it will continue to expand. Services are already operating to Europe, Japan and the east coast of the United States and now it is proposed to service the west coast of the United States. However I hope that the position will not be allowed to remain static but that the Australian National Line will participate to an even greater extent and will expand its activities until such time as the Australian shipping industry is carrying a reasonable share of Australia's trade. 
Australia is one of the twelve largest trading nations of the world, yet countries with smaller populations than our own already have their own overseas shipping lines. I refer particularly to the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Sweden ;.nd Norway, and to The Netherlands and Belgium. It is only in recent years - in fact, since the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made his statement on 28th November 1968 - that there has been any real move to extend the Australian shipping industry into overseas activities. I am concerned, however, that the Australian National Line could become submerged as the junior partner in some of the large foreign conferences that have been created. For example, in the AustraliaEuropean conference we have one ship out of nine, and the proportion will be even smaller than that later. On the Australia to Japan trade we have one ship. Admittedly the arrangement is for only two ships, one to be operated by the Japanese and the other by Australia. 
Yes. I am hopeful that the Australian National Line will not be submerged in these conferences which are controlled and operated by overseas interests. I look to the day when the Australian National Line will be permitted to operate as a separate entity, not part of a conference line and not affected by the fixation of freight rates which have acted severely, harshly and to the detriment of Australian industries, particularly primary industries. I believe that there should be greater investigation and research into the type of ships to be employed so that the vessels operating in the Australian trade will be suited to our trade requirements and not so much to the trade requirements of other countries. The Japanese, for instance, have made a specialty of designing and operating ships to suit their trade. I hope that the Government will permit the Australian National Line to engage in research and, in collaboration with the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Primary Industry and secondary industry, design ships to suit our trade requirements. I look forward to seeing the Australian National Line functioning as an independent operator and not as part of a conference owned, controlled and operated by foreign interests. 
From the limited description of the ship to be used in the west coast of North America trade it would appear that it will be suited to our trade requirements. Australian outports have suffered serious losses of trade from the introduction of new type vessels and this situation will continue and will expand in the not too distant future unless the Government is prepared to take remedial steps to overcome the problem. The wool trade has been seriously affected at a number of outports, not the least my own port of Newcastle which, to some degree, is more favourably placed than other ports like Albany in Western Australia and Portland in Victoria. The Tasmanian trade has been adversely affected. The type of vessel described by the Minister should suit our requirements and may offer some relief to the outports that have been detrimentally affected by the introduction of container ships. 
If we are going to introduce new types of ships that will affect the trade at outports, the Government' should be looking to provide alternative industries in those centres to offset the loss of employment by waterside workers and the loss of income to towns and cities in those regions. The Government should not say: 'Right, let them work it out for themselves'. When the Government plans for new ships it should plan also to provide employment for displaced labour and additional income to compensate for the loss of income that some ports suffer as the result of the bulk handling of cargo in container ships and other new means of transport. 
I should like to get some clarification from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  of matters that are not specifically mentioned in his statement. Are the ships to be built in Australian shipyards? 
This is a further example of the Government's complete disregard of the Australian shipbuilding industry which, at the moment, is going through a crisis in respect of continuity of employment in the shipyards. No industry can function efficiently without a continuous run of orders. It is no good placing another order when a ship is almost completed and labour is being dismissed because of inadequate work for the yard. There must be a continual nin of employment in shipyards in order to hold the specialised type of workers. From my own experience I know that men engaged in the shipbuilding industry must understand and be fully conversant with that industry. The methods of construction are completely different from those that are followed in structural steel workshops and in engineering workshops. I regret that the Minister has not been able to answer my question in the affirmative and say that the ships are to be built in Australian yards. The Opposition did not raise any objection to the container ship for the Australia-European trade being built overseas. We did not object to the ship for Australia- Japan trade because I made inquiries at that time and found out that no Australian shipyard was then in a position to provide the ship within a reasonable time. We accepted that state of affairs. But it is now possible for Australian shipyards to build the ships and to have them available in a fair and reasonable time. 
The Minister says that it would nol have been possible in this instance. The Government did not make the decision to enter the west coast trade overnight. It has been working on and planning this proposal. While the Government was planning this extension of the activities of the Australian National Line it could well have carried out investigations with the Australian shipyards through the Australian Shipbuilding Board to ensure that at least the National Line ship and the Elder Smith ship were built in an Australian yard. I condemn the Minister and the Government for having failed to carry out this part of the activities of the National Line. The Australian shipbuilding industry will not remain docile and accept this kind of treatment much longer. 1 would now like to say something about the manning of the Elder Smith ship. Would the Minister indicate whether the Elder Smith ship is to be manned by Australians or whether only the National Line ship will be manned by Australians? Could he give some indication of that? 
I accept that,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Now that the Government has extended the activities of the ANL into this field there are several other matters that f shall raise because I think they should also be- examined. Firstly I refer to the import of phosphate rock. It would appear that by the middle of 1970 there will not be one ship, overseas owned but manned by Australians, operating on the Australian coast. At present 80% of the phosphate rock is carried to Australia in foreign manned ships. The other 20%, I understand, is carried in the 'Triaster' and the 'Tri-Eilis' which are in the process of being sold. When these two ships are sold there will be no phosphate rock brought to Australia in ships that either have been built in Australia or are manned by Australians. I hope that the Minister will, in the very near future, permit the Australian National Line to move into this trade with ships that are much more economical and more suited to the trade than are some of the vessels at present operating in it. 
Australia imports 20.5 million tons of crude oil  -  5,438,000,000 gallons of oil- a year. None of this oil is brought here in Australian owned or Australian manned ships. This is a field in which the ANL should likewise bc permitted to expand its activities. Ships designed for the carriage of oil should be built in Australia and should be manned with Australian crews. 
I would like to move on and talk about stevedoring, touching briefly on a few points. The Australian National Line should be permitted to carry out its own stevedoring. The ANL is Australia's largest shipping line but yet it has all its stevedoring done under contract. There is any amount of opportunity and any amount of need for the ANL to do this sort of work itself. I hope that in the not too distant future the Minister will bring down reports similar to the one just presented to the House on the carriage of phosphate rock, the carriage of crude oil and stevedoring. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Defence. In a defence statement in this place last night the Minister listed the major pieces of equipment which are to be purchased in the next defence programme. Is the Minister aware that Australian shipbuilding and aircraft manufacturing industries are badly in need of orders for new ships and aircraft? Can he give an assurance that the orders for 84 observation helicopters costing $23m, 42 utility helicopters costing $31m, 2 twin engined support and training aircraft costing $8m, a light destroyer costing $5m and 1 logistic cargo ship for the Army costing $10m, will all be built in Australian shipyards and aircraft factories? 
I move: 
At the end of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1) add the following words: 'with which is associated the positioning and development of major airports. 
If this amendment is accepted, the subparagraph in question will read: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon - 
the effects of aircraft noise on persons, property, institutions and communities with which is associated the positioning and development of major airports. 
We welcome the Government's decision to re-appoint the House of Representatives Aircraft Noise Committee because of the major noise problem which exists around many airports in Australia today - to mention a few, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane, Amberley, Darwin and Townsville. I could refer to New Guinea and mention a number of airports there. I have been a member of the Committees which have been sitting since November 1968 when the first Committee was formed. I feel that at this stage there is a major problem which requires a major decision. I personally cannot see any solution to the problem confronting Sydney, for example, other than to shift the airport If the airport is to be shifted, obviously, the Committee which is investigating the noise problem must have a look at this matter. Parliamentary committees have for some considerable time been recommending to this Parliament that the Department of Civil Aviation examine the siting of a second major airport for Sydney. I refer, for example, to the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works presented on 23rd September 1965, wherein the Committee stated in paragraph 50: 
We recommend that steps be taken to identify, as soon as possible, the site for the development of Sydney's second major airport. 
That was in 1965. Here we are in 1970 and still no move has been mads and no indication has come from the Department of Civil Aviation or the Minister that any alternative site as far as Sydney is concerned has been selected. We feel that this amendment will provide one way of getting around it. I know that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  or other Government supporters will reply that if we extend the powers and the terms of reference of the Committee, we will defer the report of the Committee. I draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that the Parliament already has an interim report and that the Committee is thinking in terms of a further interim report so that we can make recommendations to the Government 
In any case, does the Government take any notice of the recommendations of select committees? For example, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety was presented on 21st September 1960. Nothing has been done about the recommendations contained in it. We also had the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television. Its report was presented on 29th October 1963. What has been the result of that Committee's work? The Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes presented its report on 11th June 1968. Even in the wool industry today we have the situation that ports throughout Australia are suffering a retardation of trade as a result of the Government's taking no notice of the evidence which was presented to that Committee and because the container consortium is completely reneging on what it said at that inquiry. 
In addition, there was the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures, the report of which was tabled on 29th May 1968. It would appear from what was said in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that there is to be some activity about this. The Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution tabled its report on 11th October 1969. There was a lot of talk about that report but no cleaning of the air. The Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs tabled a report on 29th October 1969. We are starting to do a little bit with that. Does it really matter whether we extend the time for presentation of the report of the Committee? As has already been indicated the Committee is prepared to bring down interim reports. It has provided one already and will, I feel, provide another one very shortly. 
So the argument that we will only delay the final report is humbug on the part of the Government in refusing to accept a fair and legitimate amendment to the terms of reference of the Committee so it can really do the job of overcoming the noise problem. In any case, when interim reports have been presented to this Parliament has the Government taken any real note of what was said in them? I just mention two small matters which I consider important. For example, at paragraph 13 of the interim report the Committee said: 
Against this background . . . 
The Committee was referring to the need for town planning, that is, for the Department of Civil Aviation, to take heed of town planning -  . . your Committee recommends immediate action by the Commonwealth to initiate arrangements for the establishment of airport planning and co-ordination media incorporating State and local government bodies involved in urban development planning and plan implementation. 
Now, there is no evidence of this having taken place already but there is evidence that in the Northern Territory, where this Government has complete and absolute authority, the recommendation of the Committee to take heed where residential development is to be placed has been ignored. We read in a statement by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  on 6th February 1970 that a new school is to be built at Berrimah at a cost of $463,570. And where is the new school to be located? As honourable members are aware, it will be right under the flight path of the northsouth runway which is the main runway at Darwin. The Minister for Works took no heed of the Committee's recommendation in the interim report tabled in this place last year. What is the use of making interim reports if the Government takes no notice of them? There was another and most important disregard of the Committee's recommendations. Paragraph 14 of the interim report states: 
Your Committee, in the course of inspections of RAAF bases in various places in Australia, has noted the proximity of existing and planned houses for RAAF personnel and families to sources of aircraft noise generated by RAAF aircraft. Your Committee is concerned at this apparent indifference towards the ordinary comfort of persons committed to living on these service bases and would commend measures to mitigate the effects of aircraft noise to existing homes and recreational buildings. Your Committee urges reconsideration of plans already approved for residential development on RAAF bases so as to avoid unnecessary exposure of service personnel to aircraft noise. It also commends these considerations for personnel in future planning of RAAF bases. 
That is a clear statement of what the Government and the Department of Air should be doing with regard to RAAF bases and the location of residential development for the people who live on the bases. I know that we have had no complaints from the personnel on the bases about the noise but I do not think we can be fooled by that because no member of the RAAF in his right senses would make a complaint because if he did he would very quickly finish in the dog house, as we all know. I just draw the attention of honourable members to this paragraph and also to the fact that about a fortnight ago the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works carried out an inspection of the Pearce air base in Western Australia. What did it find? lt found that accommodation is being built there with no provision whatsoever for soundproofing. So what is the use of the Committee making recommendations to the Government that present plans be reviewed and future planning be developed in such a way as to provide protection for the personnel on RAAF bases? 
Here are two blatant cases of the Government taking no notice of recommendations; the school at Berrimah in Darwin which has air conditioning but no soundproofing and the accommodation at Pearce air base in Western Australia which has no soundproofing. I feel that Ministers have no regard whatsoever for what the Committee has said up to this point and we feel that there is only one way to overcome the problems of some of these airports and that is to give the Committee the power to investigate alternative sites when it can see no solution to the present problem. Some of the airports have unique problems. The atmospheric conditions prevailing in Brisbane - I am not going to claim that I know a heck of a lot about this, but we heard the explanation from experts - cause a layer of heat over the airport, which bounces the sound back on to the adjoining residences. To my way of thinking there is only one way to solve that problem. We cannot shift the atmosphere so the airport has to be moved away from the present site. We cannot think in terms of shifting the houses. This is one matter which the Committee should be looking at. 
On behalf of the Opposition I submit that the proposed amendment should be accepted because I honestly believe that the Committee should be charged with the responsibility - if it cannot find a technical solution to the problem - of finding an alternative site for the airport. We cannot trust the planners because I just gave honourable members two examples of where the planners were not prepared to take heed of the recommendations of the Committee and two Ministers were not prepared to take note of them. The only way to get around this is for the Committee to have the power to determine alternative locations for airports where the noise problem cannot be solved. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill that has just been introduced by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  However, honourable members have not yet received a copy of the Bill and I, as spokesman for the Opposition, have received only a patched up copy indicating the Government's intentions. Opposition members would appreciate an assurance from the Minister that within 6 months the measure will be reintroduced so that we may seek to amend it if we consider that that is necessary. We have not had an opportunity to study the Bill. It came into my possession only at 12.50 p.m. today. We would appreciate some assurance from the Minister that a further opportunity will be afforded to honourable members to study it and if need be to move amendments. We accept that there is a potential crisis and that a lot of damage could be caused to pearl beds and marine life if action were not taken now. However, before proceeding 1 would appreciate some assurance from the Minister. 
Would we have an opportunity to debate and vote on it? 
Would that be within 6 months? 
Having received that assurance, we On this side of the House will not oppose the measure. However, before proceeding to a vote, I should like to bring several matters to the attention of honourable members. The first is the laxity on the part of the Government in not introducing a Bill to tighten up the Navigation Act in sufficient time for honourable members to give full consideration to it. An amendment such as this should not be introduced in this hurried fashion. Nearly all shipping in Australian waters is engaged in trade and commerce with other countries and amongst the States and therefore can be made subject to Commonwealth laws. However, the Commonwealth has been most dilatory and diffident in enacting such laws. There is little doubt that, both under the trade and commerce powers and the external affairs powers in the Constitution, it could have implemented the international Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil in 1954. The Menzies Government took the attitude that complementary State legislation was required. The Commonwealth did not pass an Act until 1960. The States, with South Australia bringing up the rear, took 2 more years to pass their Acts. Accordingly Australia did not gain the benefits of the Convention until 29th November 1962. On 1 1th April of that year amendments to the 1954 Convention were adopted by a conference of contracting governments. The Government still took the view that complementary State legislation was required. The Government passed the amending Act in 1965, Western Australia in 1964 and Queensland in 1967, and the other States have still to act. So honourable members can see that after 8 years Australia has been denied the benefits of the Convention of 1954. 
The Government has been given any number of warnings by the accidents that have occurred overseas. For instance, in the last 10 years oil1 tankers have been involved in more than 500 accidents throughout the world. That is an average of 50 accidents to tankers each year. Most of the accidents have occurred when the tankers have been either entering or leaving port. These warnings have been apparent to the Government. It had the example of the 'Torrey Canyon', a 120,000 ton tanker that went aground in similar circumstances to the 'Oceanic Grandeur'. When the 'Torrey Canyon' went aground, about 100,000 tons of oil were discharged on to the sea. The British and the French governments were involved in considerable litigation when they tried to obtain compensation or part compensation for the damage that resulted from that accident. They tried to mitigate the damage by bombing the tanker and setting alight the oil that was discharged on to the sea. However, all their efforts were of no great avail. It was subsequently proven that the detergents used on that occasion caused more damage to marine life than the oil would have caused if it had continued to discharge on to the sea. 
As a result of that accident on the British coast, the British Parliament set up a parliamentary select committee to investigate the problem. The select committee made certain recommendations.  Sir Solly  Zuckerman, the Government's chief scientific adviser, presided over a committee of scientists in the United Kingdom, and made some strong recommendations. The major projects recommended by this committee have been listed, but it is obvious that the Australian Government has not taken much notice of them. The committee recommended further research into means for speedy transfer of the cargo from a stranded tanker; methods of firing oil in stranded tankers and on the sea surface; effects of natural factors on the movement, dispersal and destruction of oil at sea; oil sinking, scavenging and gelling agents; more effective but less toxic detergents; detergent spraying and other cleansing equipment; mechanical methods of removing oil both from the sea surface and from beaches; cheap and effective booms, primarily for protecting harbours and inlets; and the effects of pollution on marine life, sea birds and coastal vegetation, and ways of minimising them. 
What has the Department of Shipping and Transport done to implement some of the recommendations of this committee? Admittedly the recommendations were not made to the present Minister for Shipping and Transport or his predecessor, but they were made public. They were available to governments throughout the world. The Australian Government should have realised that something had to be done and done very speedily to try to meet the situation that had developed. I repeat for the benefit of honourable members that in the last 10 years tankers have been involved in more than 500 accidents. Surely this should have been sufficient to prod the Government into some activity. lt is also interesting to find in the report of the committee in the United Kingdom reference to the effects of natural factors on the movement, dispersal and destruction of oil at sea. This is very much apparent when we take into consideration the accident in June 1948 to the tanker 'World Glory'. This tanker foundered in a heavy gale off the South African coast about 45 miles north east of Durban and some 45,000 tons of oil were discharged into the sea. A south west wind was blowing at the time and the only conclusion that one could reach was that the oil would drift away from the South African coast and create no problem. But notwithstanding that there was an offshore wind blowing the oil did not drift away from the South African coast. It was found, within a very short time, that the oil slick, covering 50-odd miles, had moved in the direction of the coast and was only 15 miles from the coast. This is an incident for which no explanation has yet been given. It is not known why, with the prevailing wind blowing off the coast, the oil should move against the wind. The committee chaired by  Sir Solly  Zuckerman recommended that this should be one of the things examined. In the case of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' the monsoonal wind was blowing the oil away from the ship and away from the Australian coast. The circumstances were the reverse of those in the South African case some 22 years ago when the oil slick backed up against the wind. 
As the Minister for Shipping and Transport has said, Australia has been fortunate in the case of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' in that there has not been a large loss of marine life in the Torres Strait area and that there has not been considerable damage to the Great Barrier Reef and adjacent islands. 1 bring these few points to the attention of honourable members and the Minister because his Department has been seriously lacking in initiative previously in not doing something about this matter. We know of so many cases that have occurred in recent years that the Department should have taken some positive steps. The Government now is trying to do something about this situation. It should have realised right from the time that the ship was damaged on 3rd March that action was imperative. It took 8 days for the 'Leslie J. Thompson' to obtain permission to offload some of the cargo. It is obvious that the Chinese owner of the Oceanic Grandeur' is not the least bit interested. It is all right for the Government to say that the owner of the vessel lives in Tokyo and has been hard to contact. The Department may have been trying to contact the owner but obviously he. did not want to be contacted. 1 put the question to honourable members that if they had an asset worth $1 4m, a ship that had been holed and was resting on the bottom of the sea, a ship with a cargo of oil worth something like $800,000, would they not be interested? Would they not want to know what was going to happen to that asset, the ship, and its cargo? Of course, they would want to know. But in the case of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' the owner was not concerned. He had certain salvage rights and the question of insurance and many other things were involved. It is obvious thai the owner did not give a damn about what happened to the marine life off the coast of Australia. All that he and his company were interested in  -  and I understand he is the sole owner of the company - was the asset. He was not worrying about the damage caused to the Australian coast. 
The same thing happened iri the case of the 'Torrey Canyon". The British and French governments endeavoured to obtain compensation and were unable to do so. They had to take over one of the sister ships of that company when it sailed into Singapore. They had to take out a writ over that ship before they could get a settlement. If they had not done so they could have whistled for any compensation so far as the company was concerned. This is typical of the attitude of the people who own and operate tankers in the world today, and oil represents the major commodity now carried on the seas. 
This Government has been sadly lacking in its responsibilities in not having brought to this Parliament legislation to enable it to cope with events of this kind. Australia for too long has been adopting the attitude that this sort of thing - eventualities such as tankers being holed, as has happened in other places - could never happen here. Therefore I feel, as I have said so many times this afternoon, that the Government has been remiss in its responsibilities for not taking action earlier. 
Referring now to the penalties set out in this legislation, there is to be a penalty of $2,000 a day which may be imposed on an owner who fails to carry out the directions of the Minister. Have we any assurance that the courts will impose such a fine? There was a case recently in the port of Newcastle in which a tanker accidently discharged about 700 gallons of highly inflammable petrol. The magistrate who heard the case said it was obvious that the company operating the tanker had been careless. It was obvious also that severe damage could have been caused as a result of the petrol being released into the water. Yet what sort of fine did the magistrate impose? He fined the company $200 whereas the Act provided for a maximum fine of $2,000. Therefore whilst the Government may write into the legislation a penalty of $2,000 per day for every day that the owners fail to comply with the Minister's requirement, the fact is that the matter is still in the hands of the courts. If a magistrate imposes a paltry fine of $100 or S200 a day, such as in the example I have cited, I do not think it will be sufficient when we are dealing with assets worth $14m. Tankers are not going to get smaller. They will get larger and accordingly the cargo they carry will' be worth more and there will be more of it. Therefore I think the Minister should give this matter further serious consideration notwithstanding this proposed fine of $2,000 for each day that the owner continues to breach the law. This fine is totally inadequate. Some of the owners of tankers would laugh at a fine of $2,000 a day. 
I have indicated the intention of the Opposition to be brief in this debate but there are several other honourable members on this side of the House who would like to say something about it. The Minister was going to make a statement last week about this matter. However, because of the conditions laid down by the Opposition - namely, that we required 2 hours notice of a statement to be made by a Minister - he did not do so. There are some interesting facts about this case which clearly indicate that somebody was taking a risk in operating this tanker. I do not think the Minister would object if I quoted figures relating to the case because they are readily available. He referred to them in reply to a question about this matter and I will not be breaching any confidence if I use them. It has been disclosed that on the day on which the ship was operating in this channel the water depth was supposed to be 37 feet, yet subsequently it was found to be only 34 feet. The tanker at that stage would have been drawing in the vicinity of 38 feet or 39 feet. Therefore the operators were trying to take a tanker drawing about 38 feet or 39 feet of water through a channel which, according to the charts, was only 37 feet deep. From what I can make of the information available at the time of the incident the tide was pretty close to low water mark. Therefore the pilots were trying to take this tanker through a channel which was of insufficient depth. 
Another point to be made is that it is time the Government examined the question of allowing tankers, particularly oil tankers, to use the waters between the Great Barrier Reef and the coast of Queensland, having in mind the possibility of the ship being holed and the Reef being severely damaged as a result of the spillage of oil into the sea. The Minister should be closely examining this matter. There should be a prohibition against such ships using these waters. In the interests of the Reef, ships should be forced to take the long way round. If ships are to be permitted to use these waters then the obvious thing to do is to allow the oil companies to drill in them. The prospect of damage by drilling is equal to that of damage from ships being holed. 
We must consider also that tankers today clean their tanks in these waters. It is a well known fact that they do this at sea. Instead of collecting the oil and disposing of it in the approved manner they pump it over the side. It is estimated that approximately 2 million tons of oil a year is being discharged into the sea by ships, with no attempt whatever to prevent pollution. And yet, tankers can use the waters between the Barrier Reef and the coast, clean their tanks and pump the water back over the side which can cause damage to the Reef. These are some of the things that we have to look at. As I said earlier, while we realise there is a problem as far as the Oceanic Grandeur' is concerned, we do not oppose the Bill. We will give the Bill a speedy passage so that the measures that are necessary in this legislation can be put into effect as quickly as possible. 
I would like some clarification and assurance from the Minister in regard to the $2,000 fine which may be imposed when the master or the company responsible for a ship fails to carry out a direction. I am referring to proposed section 329g (1.). Could the Minister give some indication as to why an amount of $2,000 was imposed? Does he consider the fine adequate, having in mind that we are dealing with vessels that can be worth anything from $5m or $6m to $50m or $60m? Could the Minister say whether this maximum fine is adequate? 
Whilst I accept the assurance of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  that the objective of the Bill is to prevent pollution and assist in preventing the continued discharge of oil, whether it be cargo, or fuel, I think the Minister should take into consideration that in the Navigation Act there is provision for a sliding scale of penalties for the overloading crf ships. If a ship is overloaded the sliding scale takes the amount of overloading into consideration. I am wondering whether a similar type of penalty could be imposed here, if a 5,000-ton ship goes aground and is holed, obviously the amount of oil that can be spilled into the sea is much less than it is from a 100,000-ton ship which is damaged. What concerns me is the lack of cooperation by the master and the owner of the 'Oceanic Grandeur'. There was a serious lack of co-operation by the master, acting in the interests of the owner, as the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech and in other places. It took some days before the master was prepared to offload any of his cargo into the 'Leslie J. Thompson', which was lying alongside. 
We have the same situation at the moment. The master of the ship will not permit the removal of the cargo. About 30,000 tons of oil is still in the ship and the master is sitting pat, obviously under the directions of the owner of the ship. I think that the larger the ship, the larger should be the penalty. I am not pushing the point at this stage by way of amendment but I think that while the Bill is between this House and another place, the Minister should give serious thought to the matter and examine the possibility of an amendment in order to introduce some form of sliding scale, of penalties. I know that the Bill has been introduced hurriedly and that the Government is trying to get out of a jam. The Opposition is trying to cooperate. We do not want to delay the Bill unnecessarily but I think that the possibility of a sliding scale to provide for a larger penalty for a larger ship or load should be looked at. 
by leave - The Opposition welcomes this late decision by the Federal Government on behalf of the Commonwealth Railways. Obviously, it is a concession which has been granted grudgingly. It is obvious also that the Government is trying to save as much as it can or, in other words, to give the least possible amount of concession that it can to the pensioners in the community. For example, I refer to the decision to extend the concession from the State in which a pensioner resides. All that that decision really means is that a pensioner now can travel from Port Pirie to Kalgoorlie and also to Alice Springs on the Commonwealth Railways. The concession applies to every pensioner in the Commonwealth. 
It is time that .the Commonwealth accepted its complete and absolute responsibility for pensioners in the community. We have the power under the Constitution to do this. We should be subsidising pensioner travel on all railways whether they be State owned railways or Commonwealth owned railways. Let us look at the pension today and the pension in the past expressed as a percentage of average earnings. Statements have been made continually by successive Ministers for Social Services about the magnificent job they have done for the pensioners. Pensions were increased as from October of last year. This increase was announced in the Budget presented in August last year. At that time, average weekly earnings stood at $71.40. Today, when average earnings are $80 a week, as announced a couple of weeks ago, we hear nothing from the Government about introducing a supplementary increase in pensions, so long overdue at this time, to cover increases- in prices in recent months. We know prices have increased because there has been an increase in average earnings. 
The Government always goes to great pains to compare events of today with those of 20 years ago. Let us consider the case 20 years ago. In 1949 the single rate pension was 24% of average earnings. Today, working on the figures for December 1969, it represents 19.4% of average earnings. So there has been a decline of 4.6% in the single rate when we compare it with average earnings. There is an even worse situation revealed when we look at the married rate. In 1949 the married rate pension was 24% of average earnings; in December 1969 it was 17%. One can see that the married rate has suffered an even greater decline than the single rate when we compare the figures with average earnings. 
The Government can say that the matter of concessional fares for pensioners travelling on State railways is a State responsibility. But let us examine the indebtedness of the States in comparison with that of the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth, in the period since 1949, has reduced its total per capita indebtedness by 34% to an average of $299.47 per head of population. But the States have increased their indebtedness by 167% to a total of $729.31 per head of population. The Commonwealth should assist State railway authorities by saying that the pensioners are its responsibility. The Commonwealth should say: "We would like you to grant concessional fares on your transport system, your railways or whatever other systems you operate, and we are prepared to reimburse you for the concession you extend'. This would overcome the ludicrous situation which exists today. Let us take, for example, the case of a pensioner living at Queanbeyan who wishes to travel to Melbourne. He gets a concession rate from Queanbeyan to Albury but then has to pay the full fare from Albury to Melbourne. Another ludicrous situation is that a pensioner wishing to go to Brisbane, can get the concessional rate to Kyogle but then has to pay the full fare for the remainder of his trip to Brisbane. These are some of the anomalies that exist today. 
The same thing can be said about concessions to pensioners in the field of local government rating. In my own city, Newcastle, the rate concession for pensioners costs the Newcastle City Council in the vicinity of $120,000 a year. In the Lake Macquarie Shire, which includes the Federal electorates of Hunter, Shortland and Robertson, the rating concession costs the local council even more. This Government has nothing to be proud of so far as concessions to pensioners are concerned. They cost the Government the absolute minimum that it can get away with. 
The Opposition welcomes the statement made this morning by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  but we think the Government should enter into negotiations with the State governments in order to extend this service beyond State boundaries, even if it has to subsidise it in the manner I have suggested. It is the Commonwealth's responsibility to care for pensioners and to help them in every possible way. As I said in my opening remarks, the Government is grudgingly granting this concession and granting only the absolute minimum. In his statement the Minister said: 
Discussions have been initiated with the State governments to determine final details for the application of the concession, including the possible exclusion- 
I emphasise the words 'possible exclusion' -  from concession of travel at times when accommodation on the trains is at a premium and in particular during public and school holidays. Ancillary charges for sleepers, seat reservations and meals will not qualify for  a  concession. 
I will deal firstly with the first part of that extract from the Minister's speech. When, mainly, do aged people travel? I take my mind back to when I was a young fellow and I was travelling with my parents. The party usually comprised my parents, my brother and me, and our grandparents. My grandparents travelled with us at that time for one simple and obvious reason - they needed the assistance of my parents to help them get about. Obviously, aged people travel when their children are on holidays. The entire family goes away together. But this Government says that the grandparents, the pensioner members of the family, have to take off early. The aged people have to go unaccompanied to the holiday resort, or their particular destination, and the rest of the family has to tag along later. 
By adopting this attitude I think the Government is destroying its objective of helping aged people to at least have a holiday, to travel, to be able to visit their families. The time to travel and to see their families is, in the main, when the entire family can travel together, such as at holiday weekends or during school holidays. In the main that is when people want to travel and that is why there is so much congestion on the railways. T do think the Government should take away this facility. From what I understand, there is no restriction imposed by the New South Wales Government Railways on the concession fares it grants to pensioners. 
But in this case you are going to provide- 
If no decision has yet been made in this respect 1 appeal to the Government not to impose a restriction on travel by these people. Allow them to travel on public holidays or during school holidays with their children. Let them travel as a family unit. Do not force them to travel as individuals. If they have to travel as individuals many of them will not be able to do so. As I was saying, the New South Wales Government Railways Commissioners do not impose this restriction on the concessional fares they grant. 
The second point I want to make about the extract I read from the Minister's speech relates to the ancillary charges for sleepers, seat reservations and meals. According to the Minister these will not qualify for a concession. Let us consider what happens in the case of the IndianPacific Railway, for example. The fare is an overall one. The passenger does not pay so much for his seat, so much for his bed and so much for his meals. Now, so far as pensioners are concerned, there will have to be a new charge for them. But can a pensioner wishing to travel on the IndianPacific Railway say: 'I do not want a sleeper because I cannot afford it. I will sit up all night, for 3 nights, while travelling from Sydney to Perth'. At present, only from Port Pirie to Kalgoorlie is a pensioner entitled to the concession. He cannot say that he will sit up all night because there is no provision for this in the fares. The fare is an inclusive charge. I have found that buying meals on trains is an expensive way of living. The overall charge for meals on trains probably is the highest one could find. Therefore, in effect, the Government is saying to pensioners that in places where they have to pay the highest price for a meal, they have to meet the full cost. 
I do not think the Government should deal with these trivial matters in this way. It should either give the concession and do so gladly or not muck about and give nothing at all. In the case of the Port PirieKalgoorlie section of the Indian-Pacific line, the Government should say to the pensioner: 'The single fare is $43.35 and you can have it for half price'. Or it should say to him: 'You will pay so much for your ticket, so much for the seat reservation ami so much for the meals but you will be paying full price for your meals, seat reservation and sleeping berth.' I ask the Minister to give this matter serious consideration and to review the Government's decision. Grant the concession gladly, not grudgingly as the Government is doing at the present rime. The other matter that I wish to deal with is contained in the third paragraph on the second page of the Minister's statement: 
The new concession will come into operation on 1st April 1970 but will not be available for pensioners commencing travel over the Anzac Day weeknend 
Will this apply to ex-servicemen, for example? 
Which will be retained? 
I accept the Minister's assurance that that will not be interfered with in any way. 1 hope that my references earlier to public holidays will also be dealt with. My criticism of the withholding of the concession on public holidays applies also to the Anzac Day week-end. It should be treated as is any other public holiday. I hope that the Government will take heed of some of the things which we have said on this matter. I think they are worthy of consideration. The Government should give concessions gladly and not grudgingly. It should stop playing around with this and saying: 'Pay for your meals and pay for your bed at full fare but you can travel at half price.' Let the people travel when they want to travel. If the Government persists with this idea of excluding them on school holidays and public holidays it will break up families and where pensioners would normally be able to go for a. holiday with their families, because of the increased cost they may have to have second thoughts on the matter. We hope that these things will be taken into consideration when we get a further statement from the Minister. 
Yesterday the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  as he has already stated, gave me an assurance that the Opposition would be afforded an opportunity to bring in a private member's Bill, if it deemed that action necessary, and that there would bc a vote on such a Bill. I understand that both Government and Opposition senators supported the amendment in the debate last night. It was considered to be the most practical way under the Standing Orders of the Senate to ensure that there would be a debate on this subject. I think I made it clear yesterday that we agreed that there was an urgent need for this legislation and that we were willing at this point to trust the Government on what it had brought down. 
Obviously, the Bill was hurriedly prepared. As I said yesterday, I received the last amendment to it at about 3.30 in the afternoon. It was then conveyed to me by a member of the staff of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  I handed him my makeshift copy of the Bill and asked him to write in the amendment. The whole affair was obviously hurried. As I said, I thought the Government was to be condemned for its failure to investigate these aspects and to introduce much sooner than yesterday legislation to clothe itself with the necessary powers. We accepted that this was a matter of urgency and that it was better late than never. At the same time we did not believe that we should be committed for all time to a Bill that we were permitting to pass through the House much more quickly than it would pass through if the normal procedure were followed. 
The normal procedure in this place is for a Bill to be presented, for the first and second readings to be moved and for the debate to be adjourned for about 7 days so that the Opposition can look at the measure, take it to a Party meeting and come up with some decision.s on it. We could not do that yesterday. Therefore we asked to be allowed, to bring in a private member's Bill. As 1-see. it. there is nothing wrong with the amendment. It does not prevent the Minister today, tomorrow, next Tuesday or whenever the Parliament sits again in this session from bringing in a Bill identical with the one that he presented to the Parliament yesterday. Honourable members can then 'have a look at it, go through the usual procedure and the new Bill could operate from the date of expiry of this Bill. If the Government is satisfied that this Bill does everything that it wants, it can introduce another Bill in similar terms on the next occasion we meet, which is 7th April. This would solve the Minister's problem. 1 agree with him that the undertaking he gave yesterday is now replaced by this. I see no difficulty with the amendment. The Opposition supports it. As I said yesterday, we do not oppose the measure. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England- Minister for Shipping and Transport) [3.3 1. 1 - I should have made one other comment when I spoke before. The concluding words of the amendment are: 
. and shall be deemed to have been repealed on that day.  lt is my understanding that, if there is any continuing penalty incurred by an owner or masler of a vessel' under the provisions of the existing legislation, it will continue to be incurred in accordance with the Act, provided it was incurred before 18th September 1970. This is without prejudice, of course, to any subsequent legislation to Which the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has just referred. I thought I should explain to the Committee that, as I understand the Acts Interpretation Act, any continuing liability will continue after the date of termination of the legislation, provided it was incurred before the date when the Act is to cease to have effect. 
All I can say is that we will deal with these positions when they arise. We cannot commit ourselves to something of which we are not yet aware. I come back to the same point. There is nothing to prevent the Government from bringing down new legislation to provide that this Bill will be retrospective to the date of operation of this Bill. If such new legislation is passed, it then becomes the law. It would provide the powers that the Minister seeks.I do not want to be misunderstood. The Opposition believes that in principle the Minister should have these powers and he should have asked for them long ago rather than hurriedly yesterday. We do not object to the basic principle but we want sufficient time to study the legislation aswe do normally when other legislation is introduced. We permitted this Bill to go through yesterday. We co-operated and probably passed the Bill more quickly than any Bill has ever been passed by the Parliament. The Opposition supports the legislation in principle. It is up to the Minister to comply with the decision of the Senate. At the same time, if he wants to proceed with the legislation and to bring in the necessary amendment - he can do that in a fortnight or 3 weeks time if he wants to - we will look at it in the usual manner. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
 Mr Chairman,  I will not delay the Committee very long. I wish to make reference to a few points. I was completely surprised and disgusted by the eulogistic remarks made by my colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  about the Minister for Social Services. We on this side of the Committee know the tantrums that the Minister indulges in here from time to time, particularly about this time of the month. You know what I mean,  Mr Chairman. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have just listened to one of the usual, pompous, self righteous speeches of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  to which this House has become accustomed. We should take note of one pertinent point. That is that in years of membership of this Parliament - the honourable member for La Trobe is now one of the senior backbench members on the Government side, not necessarily in age but in years of service in this place - none of the last three Prime Ministers could see any of the virtues of the honourable member that he so obviously can see in himself. 
So can we. The position is that we have become accustomed to this type of speech from the honourable member who loves to score off his mates. In this debate on the motion of censure moved against the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  great emphasis has been placed on the alleged lawlessness of the action of the Opposition in this place last night and early this morning. The honourable member for La Trobe, who has just made an accusation in the speech that he delivered, based his argument on the word of some anonymous person who passed certain information on to him to the effect that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  planned what happened last night and early this morning and is indeed proud of what happened. Let me say this: As a member of the Opposition, sitting at that time in front of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I know that there was nothing premeditated about what took place last night. The reaction of the honourable member for Wills was spontaneous. Furthermore, as the situation developed, the reaction of the members of the Opposition was spontaneous against the dictatorial and undemocratic conduct of this Parliament by the Government. 
The way in which the Government has run the business of this House over the years that I have been here is nothing to its credit. Anyone who sits down and examines the history of this place will find that the conduct of business here is getting worse year by year. It is much more difficult year after year for backbench members of the Opposition to raise matters that are of interest to their electorates and of interest and importance to the nation for debate in this Parliament. We continually find the Government refusing to give information to the Opposition and refusing to give information to the Parliament as a whole concerning the activities of the Government. 
So far as the Government is concerned, this place is only a rubber stamp for it. We saw a blatant example of this attitude in the House last night when the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was stopped from moving amendments. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is sitting on the Government front bench at the moment, gave the lie earlier today to what had been said about events that took place last night. He knew that amendments were to be moved. The Leader of the House knew too that amendments were to be moved by members of the Opposition. Because of the restrictive manner in which the business of the Parliament is conducted, it was impossible for the honourable member for Dawson to move all the amendments himself. He had arranged with other interested members of the Opposition to move those amendments on behalf of the Opposition. So, from our point of view, we had business to transact. 
Personally, I give full credit to the honourable member for Wills for the action which he took. As one of those members who stood in his place here this morning in protest against the actions that were taking place here - actions by  Mr Speaker  and by the Government - I say that I would do it again with other honourable members on this side because we are determined that democracy will be returned to this place so that honourable members will have the opportunity to bring business before the Parliament. After a record recess of 6 months - with the exception of a 1-day sitting in which we saw the gag moved on 7 occasions we have seen already in this sessional period, so far of 12 days - it is important to emphasise this - the gag moved on 24 occasions. Why? It is because the Government is afraid to allow honourable members to debate the business of the Parliament. 
What is wrong with the Opposition bringing forward for discussion every Tuesday and Wednesday matters of public importance? Is the Government afraid to debate the matters that we bring forward? Does not the question raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  only this week dealing with war service homes concern hundreds of men in the community who have a desire to provide homes for their families? Is this not something of importance? Why was the debate on this subject gagged? For one obvious reason: The subject was an embarrassment to Government supporters who sit behind the Minister and they wanted to clamp down on it for the same reason that they wanted to clamp down on the debate taking place last night. Yesterday they wanted to push through a Bill because it was a Wednesday, when the proceedings of the House are not broadcast, so that it could be thrown into the Senate today, when the proceedings of the Senate are not broadcast and the people of South Australia could not listen to the debate and learn why they should defeat the present Steele Hall Government in South Australia. 
It must be obvious to everyone in the community who is aware of the number of days on which this Parliament meets that free speech in this place is being suppressed. For example, we read that in 1969 the House of Commons in Great Britain met on 164 days; the House of Commons in Canada met on 161 days; the House of Representatives in the United States of America met on 186 days. But on how many occasions did the House of Representatives in Australia meet? It met on 51 days. 
The honourable member can work it out for himself. I have stated the facts and figures to explain the reason why members of the Opposition are demanding the right to stand in their places and to bring forward business. I ask honourable members: How is it possible for an honourable member to bring business before this place when the Government occupies practically all the sitting time with Government business? So far as opportunities to discuss matters of public importance are concerned, at one time we were allowed 3 speakers, sometimes 4 speakers and sometimes 5 speakers from each side of the House, but today the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that each side would be represented by 1  speaker  only unless the Opposition reduced the number of matters that it brought forward for discussion. I refer next to general business. How often can general business be brought forward in this place? How often can honourable members speak in a grievance debate? They can do so once every fortnight. Of course, honourable members can rise in this place every night after the business of the House has concluded and raise matters in the debate on the adjournment, but they really cannot do so on Tuesday nights because all honourable members are tired on that night after travelling from their homes to meet here. An honourable member can raise matters on Wednesday and Thursday nights only, provided that he does not talk too often. If he talks too often the gag is applied, as we have seen recently. Opposition members give full credit to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for the action that he took. 
Let us consider the debate on the motion and the amendment before us today. These facts are important. First of all, how many members of cockies' corner have spoken during the debate today? There was one, and he was the Leader of the Australian Country Party. All others have remained silent in their places and none has risen to support the Leader of the House. It is obvious where they stand in this matter. The tactical move by the Prime Minister in moving an amendment was to prevent a vote on a motion where Government supporters would have been expected and required to vote for the Leader of the House. I wonder about the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  who is sitting at the back of the chamber at the moment, smiling like a cat which has just killed a cage of prize canaries. He is having the time of his life seeing the roasting that the Leader of the House has been taking and the trouble he has been having in the last couple of days. Look at him. He cannot stop laughing even at this moment. Dudley, you really have been having a ball in here the last couple of days. You and a couple of other members of the Government parties are laughing at the predicament of the Leader of the House. 
The honourable member must refer to other members by their proper titles. 
I was just being quite friendly to him,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I know that he feels the same as we do about the discomfort of the Leader of the House. There has been no attempt on the part of the Government to justify the stand taken by the Leader of the House. No honourable member who has spoken has made any attempt to justify his actions. They have not attempted to justify the way he has suppressed free debate in this chamber and the way he has continually moved the gag. Already this year in 4 sitting weeks he has moved the gag 24 times. He moved it 7 times in 1 day when the Parliament met for that farcical day on 25th November last year. 
The real position is that, the Government, in order to overcome the problem and the embarrassment of Government supporters having to speak in support of the Leader of the House, introduced this amendment attacking the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition last night had the full support of every member of the Labor Party in this place. Attempts have been made to attack his credibility. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  spoke about the Leader of the Opposition throwing a glass of water. At least the Leader of the Opposition demonstrated that he was not a navigator in the Royal Australian Air Force for nothing because he was on target with his bombing attack. 
The Opposition is quite happy if the Government wishes to stand its members up one by one and compare them with members of the Opposition. Let us consider the record of the Prime Minister. Government supporters should look at what  Mr St.  John, the former member for Warringah, had to say about him. Never mind what the Labor Party has said; just read what  Mr St.  John said about the Prime Minister. 
The Liberal Party kicked him out. That is how democratic it is. If honourable members on the Government side wish to know anything about their Prime Minister they should go and see Ted St. John and he will tell them about him. Perhaps they would like to know about the time that he tried to king hit  Senator Willesee  - the Prime Minister admits this - while be was sitting in the Senate one day. If the Government supporters want to drag out all the skeletons in the cupboard then they should go ahead. The Opposition is quite happy about it. Let us look at a few of the facts in the short time available to me. 
One would believe,  Mr Speaker,  that the Liberal and Country Parties are made up of honourable upright gentlemen who have never been removed from this place. I have a nice little list here, going back to the period between 1944 and 1949, of people who were removed. It is worth looking at. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  can smile because he knows what the list contains. I will go through this list of names - there are some important names on it - of people who were tossed out of the House during that period. They include  Sir Thomas  White, former member for Balaclava,  Sir Frederick  Stewart, former member for Parramatta, and  Mr Larry  Anthony. I do not like referring to  Mr Larry  Anthony but he was the father of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  He was bounced out 4 times between 1945 and 1948. He was one of the most truculent customers in the House. If honourable members would like to know the reasons, he was tossed out because of disobedience to the Chair. 
No, he did not have to be helped out. When the Labor Party occupied the Government benches the Parliament met and members of the Opposition were given the opportunity to debate the business of the House and the opportunity to bring matters forward. That is what we are protesting about today and tonight.  Sir Eric  Harrison was put out twice - once in 1946 and once in 1947. What associates did  Sir Eric  Harrison have beside some of his outside contacts who made up the new Guard, the Fascist organisation of the 1930s? He later became the Australian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom - a most upright gentleman. He was only tossed out twice.  Sir Percy  Spender was tossed out in 1947 and 1948. What happened to the honourable  Sir Percy?  He later became Australia's Ambassador to the United States of America. Recently he was the  President  of the International Court of Justice, which is also known as the World Court.  Sir Howard  Beale was tossed out in 1948. What happened to him after that. He became the Australian Ambassador to the United States of America. Then there was a bloke by the name of Major-General Rankin, who was tossed out in 1947. Let us look at a few of the other notables who were tossed out. Earlier tonight the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred to the fact - I shall not repeat what he had to say  - that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  who was then the honourable member for Indi, was hoisted out in 1947. What for? It was because he called one of your predecessors a gangster,  Mr Speaker.  It was shocking conduct. 
 No,  Sir. The  late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, was removed from the House in 1946 when he was honourable member for Fawkner. Last but not least, the right honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies was tossed out in 1949. All 1 can say is that the honourable member for Wills is in very good company. I am certain that in the not too distant future we can look forward to his being referred to as  Sir Gordon.  Apparently one of the pre-requisites of a knighthood is to be tossed out of the House. I do not know whether you fit into that category,  Mr Speaker.  A vicious attack has been directed against the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition by the supporters of the Government, but I draw the attention of the House to the fact that although  Sir Robert  Menzies and the late  Mr Harold  Holt were removed from the House the Leader of the Opposition has never been suspended. He was removed from the House on one occasion but was brought back. It is important to bear this point in mind because it shows once again the number of mistakes which this Government has made. Some time ago the Leader of the House had to apologise when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who was then the honourable member for Yarra, was removed from this place. 
There are any number of arguments to support the action which was taken last night by members of the Opposition. We regret that we had to take the action which was taken, but we had to bring to the attention not only of the Government but also of the people of the country the way in which democracy is being suppressed in this Parliament. We hope that in the not too distant future the Parliament will sit on more days than it does at present so that honourable members will have an opportunity to speak on Bills in which they are interested. We saw the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  being gagged in the debate on the Dartmouth proposal by the Leader of the House. Who would be more interested and concerned with the waters of the Murray, the Mumimbidgee and the Darling than the honourable member for Riverina? But the Leader of the House came into the chamber and viciously moved the gag to prevent the honourable member from speaking any further. The House should sit on more than 51 days in a year. If the House were to sit on the number of days on which the House of Commons in Britain, the House of Commons in Canada and the House of Representatives in the United States sit there would be no need for the Leader of the House continually to come into the chamber and gag debate in order to push legislation through. I hope that in the not too distant future the House will be sitting on more days than it does at present. 
by leave - There are several points in the statement just made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  that I think need some further clarification and on which I think honourable members are entitled to more information. Firstly, I should like to know whether the Minister is satisfied that when the pilot altered course the 'Oceanic Grandeur' was on course, or whether the patch is incorrectly marked on the charts? I would like some more information about the difference in the charts that was set out in paragraph 9 of the circulated copy of the statement just delivered by the Minister. Paragraph 9, in parts, states: 
This position has been stated by the Hydrographer to be coincident with that of an existing 6 fathom 1 foot shoal which on Admiralty Chart 3783 lies approximately 400 feet south of the recommended track and on Australian Chart 293 some500 feet south and is the patch referred to in paragraph 8. 
In discussions that I have had with experienced navigators my attention has been drawn to the question: In such confined waters why is there a difference of 100 ft in 2 charts? I would just like some clarification on this point. I would be quite happy to agree to give the Minister leave to reply to the questions - to this one in particular - that I am asking. 
In paragraph 7 of the circulated statement the Minister made reference to the recommended track which takes a ship over the 5 fathom 5 ft patch. Paragraph 7, in part, states: 
This alteration 2 miles before the position of touching is common practice with pilots to give a safety margin to southward of the S fathom 5 feet patch which the recommended track passes over. 
Just let us have a look at the real position had the 'Oceanic Grandeur' maintained the recommended track. There was a limited clearance of 35 ft - that is at the 5 fathom 5 ft patch. There was a tide at that stage of 4 ft 10 in which gave a clearance of 39 ft 10 in. The still water draught of the tanker, according to the Minister's statement, was 38 ft 8 in which gave a clearance of 1 ft 2 in. We should also have a look at what the Minister said in paragraph 10 of his statement, which reads: 
Because the vessel would be squatting, that phenomenon whereby a large vessel proceeding at speed settles deeper in the water, contact with the pinnacle would have been inevitable. 1 suggest that if the ship had been on the recommended course over the 5 fathom 5 ft patch, with only 1 ft 2 in to spare under perfect conditions - under still water conditions - there was a very serious possibility that the ship would have struck in any case. The ship would not necessarily have struck the pinnacle, the position of which apparently was not known to any of the pilots using this channel. So even under normal still water circumstances, 1 ft 2 in was not sufficient clearance. The pilot, apparently realising that there was this limited clearance, had moved into deeper water. This comes back to my original question of whether the ship was on course when course was changed. As far as coastal waters are concerned, any coastal master would not take his ship within li miles or 2 miles of such limited clearance. Yet, this risk was taken in these waters and apparently was still being taken up until the time of this incident. Even when one looks at the depths which were available under perfect conditions - and 1 am quoting figures that apply to perfect conditions only - one realises that the change of course from the recommended track to a 6 fathom 1 ft patch which gave a depth of 37 ft plus the tide depth of 4 ft 10 in, gave a total depth of 41 ft 10 in. The still water draught of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' being 38 ft 8 in, this gave a clearance of only 3 ft 2 in less whatever was involved as far as the squatting of the ship was concerned. The practice that the Department has allowed to continue is a dangerous one. 
So that it cannot be said that attention was not drawn to this fact, I would like to read a letter written by an experienced mariner which appeared in the Queensland Littoral Society Newsletter, copies of which I think all honourable members received last week. I refer to page 17 of this publication. 1 do not want to take up the time of honourable members by reading the whole of this reference but if it is required I shall do so. Under the heading 'The "Oceanic Grandeur" Incident', the publication states: 
The 'Oceanic Grandeur' incident, a neardisaster which might have been avoided, began almost 3 years ago. 
In a letter to the Secretary of the Great Barrier Reef Committee,  Dr P.  Mather of the University of Queensland, Lieutenant Commander F. T. Roberts RAN (Ret.) (in April 1967) drew (he Committee's attention to the danger of large tankers moving through Torres Strait waters. Commander Roberts referred in particular to the tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' of 58,062 D.W.T.- 
He named the ship, and this is most important: with a draught of 38 feet.  His  letter reads in part, The latest sailing directions by the authority of the Marine Board of Queensland state, "Considerable ingenuity would be needed to navigate a deep-draught vessel of 38 feet draught with safety in the Prince of Wales Channel. ' 
It was in the Prince of Wales Channel that the 'Oceanic Grandeur' struck the uncharted object. The publication continued: 
They also state, "This route cannot be considered a safe route for a vessel of 38 feet draught." ' 
In response to this letter, the Great Barrier Reef Committee wrote to the Portmaster of Queensland, Captain J. Beckingsale, forwarding Commander Roberts' information and received the reply (in part): 
Regarding the element of risk by deeply laden tankers grounding in the Torres Straits and Great Barrier Reef areas thereby causing widespread pollution ] feel that the danger whilst present is remote.' 
I emphasise the last part of the statement: The danger whilst present is remote.' Commander Roberts was 3 years ahead in his fears of what could happen and what ultimately did happen in Torres Strait where this tanker went aground. As I have said I consider the risk was too great because a 3 ft clearance under perfect conditions was totally inadequate. There has been negligence on the part of the Department of Shipping and Transport in allowing ships of this tonnage, carrying the amount of cargo with which this tanker was laden on this occasion, to use these passages. There has been negligence on the part of the authorities in allowing ships of this size to use these passages. The Department has adopted the attitude: 'It cannot happen here. We will give it a go and hope for the best.' As the Captain said in his letter to Commander Roberts: 'The danger whilst present is remote.' The danger was present and it was not remote. Commander Roberts was only a matter of some 3 years out in his prediction, naming the ship which finally struck. 
I am pleased to note in the concluding passages of the Minister's statement that this question of the continued use of the Strait by ships of this size is being considered. I think it should go even further. That is not sufficient. Tankers of all tonnages should be completely excluded from Torres Strait and Whitsunday Passage. They should be made to go around the outside into the open sea, thus eliminating the possibility of some irreparable damage being caused to the pearl industry or the Great Barrier Reef itself. I am pleased to see that the Minister is at least considering the size of tankers which may be permitted to use the Strait. I trust that we will receive a statement from the Minister in due course that the discussions have resulted in tankers being completely excluded from this section of the Australian coast. There are just a few other points on which I would be pleased to have a reply. Is the Department going to blow the tops off all the 5 fathom 5 ft patches around the Australian coast or is it to restrict these activities to the confined waters of Torres Strait, Whitsunday Passage and like passages? Finally, will there be a court of marine inquiry, and if not, why not, having in mind what could have eventuated as far as this incident was concerned in which millions of dollars worth of damage could have been caused. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England- Minister for Shipping and Transport) - by leave - The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has raised several points.  His  last question related to whether or not the intention is to remove all 6 fathom patches from around the Australian coastline. This obviously is not our intention either generally or as far as this particular object is concerned, as the honourable member will ascertain from re-reading the passage relevant to the rock itself. He will realise that the obstruction to which the passage in my statement refers is to the pinnacle of rock on which the 'Oceanic 
Grandeur' itself grounded. As far as the discrepancy to which the honourable member referred is concerned, and the fact that there is a variation between the 2 charts, it is obvious that this pinnacle of rock was unknown. It is something which appeared on no charts and consequently there does appear to be a need to establish an exact sounding of the depths in the channel, and it is towards this end that part of the recommendation of Captain Eccles is directed. In the result, when the pinnacle of rock has been removed the location of the shoals will also need to be exactly pinpointed so that in the future a later dated chart will be able to be used by ships passing through the channel. 
In other words, the Admiralty charts and Australian charts will be brought up to date. 
Is 3 ft 2 in, minus squatting, a safe margin? 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle)- by leave - The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  clearly stated that under the best circumstances therewas 3 ft 2 in, less squatting; he has used that term. 
Do you propose appointing a court of marine inquiry? 
With a ship of the size of the 'Oceanic Grandeur', carrying the dangerous cargo that it was carrying, does the Minister not consider that some independent authority- 
That was a departmental inquiry which is completely different. 
Whilst the recommendations are acceptable I still feel that sufficient inquiry of an independent nature has not been conducted. All we have is departmental justification for its own inaccurate and impractical system of working and that is what should be brought up to date. I do not think it is satisfactory. There is only one way to clean it all up and that is to have an independent inquiry to determine what has been happening and whether the practices followed by the Department of Shipping and Transport have been safe practices in the best interests of shipping and the people as a whole. Until such time as such an inquiry is conducted I consider the present report unsatisfactory. 
I wish to refer to the Government's decision to permit Burns Philp and Co. Ltd to sell its Australian ship Moresby' which is a 3,820 dead weight ton ship built in Newcastle in 1965. It has since been engaged on the Australia to New Guinea trade manned by Australian deck officers, engineers and crew at Australian rates of pay and under Australian conditions. The only conclusion one can come to is that Burns Philp and Co. Ltd wish to dispose of this ship and continue to do as they are doing at the present moment - that is, have their ships either chartered from overseas or registered overseas so that they can use cheap labour. 1 want to refer to a few ships which this company either owns or charters at present. First of all there is the 'Montoro', a 3,800 dead weight ton ship chartered in London in1 956. In February 1970 the company changed the crew, which at that time was a Malay crew, to' a New Guinea crew. I want to give a comparison of the wages paid to these overseas crews. When the 'Montoro' had a Malay crew the bosun was paid $98.60 a month, an able seaman received $52.22 per month and a greaser received $54.81 per month. When the company changed from a Malay crew to the New Guinea crew it was able to pay the bosun $39 per month as against $98.60 for the Malay bosun, and the able seaman and greaser were paid $26 per month. This company is not worried about who they employ. All they want is the cheapest possible labour. The 'Montoro' has Australian officers and engineers and Chinese cooks, stewards and fitters. 
The 'Tulagi', another ship owned by Burns Philp and Co. Ltd is a 2,360 dead weight ton ship. She was built in London in 1955. In 1968 it changed from a Singapore Chinese crew to a New Guinea crew and on 4th November 1969 changed to a 
Solomon Island crew. This same ship employs a mixture of Solomon Islanders and  Singapore  Chinese cooks, stewards and fitters. The chief cook received SI 16 per month, the stewards $52.22 per month and the second cook $58 per month. The same company chartered other ships. One is the Marsina', which is owned by the China Navigation Co. Ltd. It has European mates and engineers and a Hong Kong crew; the Sira', which is a Norwegian flag ship, has European officers and engineers and a Singapore crew. The wages and conditions provided are of a' much lower standard than those to which Australian seamen are entitled. I will give a comparison between the rates and conditions provided for New Guinea seamen, Solomon Islanders, Chinese and the rest of them and Australian seamen. An Australian bosun, for example, would receive $58 per week, an able seaman $54 per week and a greaser $54 per week. Just compare those rates of pay with the rates paid to New Guinean seamen on those ships. 
I want to emphasise one particular point at this stage. I do not object, and the Seamens' Union does not object, to New Guinean seamen- being employed on ships operating in the Australia-New Guinea trade. We object to the Australian seamen being removed. We object to Chinese crews from Singapore and Hong Kong being employed on this New Guinea-Australia trade. We believe that mixed crews of Australian and New Guinean seamen should be used. If the Government wants to put the New Guinean seamen on one ship and the Australians on the other, then that is all right as far as I am concerned. However. I strongly object to the Government allowing Burns Philp and Co. Ltd to dispose of its ships. It is disposing of them one by one and is chartering ships from overseas in order to use cheap labour and to avoid paying Australian rates of pay and working to Australian conditions. 
One would think that Burns Philp was going bad and was losing money. However when one examines the company's financial statements, as published in the Labour daily, the 'Daily Telegraph', of 3rd December 1969, one finds that Burns Philp and Co. Ltd made a profit, as at 30th June 1969, of $5,668,023. It was able to declare a dividend of 121%. The profit of over $5.6m represented an earning rate of 24.9%. This was not a flash in the pan for this company. In 1965 it declared a dividend of 10% and an earning rate of 26.5%. In 1966 its dividend was 10% and its earning rate 31.9%. The dividend in 1967 was 10% and the earning rate 26.1%. In 1968 the dividend was 121% and the earning rate 28.6%. This is one of the wealthiest companies in Australia. It is well known that it is not a small company. It is not a meat pie show. Last year it had a turnover of $120m. Yet it sloops to this type of trading. It is prepared to dismiss all its Australian seamen so that it can engage cheap labour, whether New Guinean or Malay. I have cited the example of this company being prepared to get rid of Malays because it had to pay them too much, and then engaging New Guinean workers. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has on numerous occasions drawn to the attention of the Government the exploitation of labour in New Guinea. This case is a further example of the exploitation of labour. 
This Government is allowing Burns Philp to dispose of its ships. It should force the company not only to retain the ships it owns at the present time but also to engage Australian and New Guinean crews so that the trade between New Guinea and Australia can be carried on on a joint basis. I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  to have a good look at this matter. 1 ask him to tell us why he has allowed Burns Philp to sell the 'Moresby', a ship built at the State Dockyard in Newcastle about 5 years ago. 
This is not an isolated example of the exploitation taking place in the AustraliaNew Guinea trade. The Karlander-New Guinea Line Ltd, a large shipping company, has some 6 ships operating on the AustraliaNew Guinea trade. The 'Solott' has a New Guinea crew. So also has the 'Silidre Timur', the 'Salmaua' and the 'Saidor'. The Sletholm' has a Chinese-Hong Kong crew, as does the 'Sletsjord'. One of the worst features of this, apart from the exploitation of cheap labour, is the fact that many of the officers and crew are not qualified or certificated. I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that officers of his own Department stated, at the recent inquiry into the sinking off Darwin of the 'Sedco Helen', that one of the reasons for that incident was that there were insufficient qualified seamen and certificated officers on board at the time. Possibly the same thing could happen in the case of ships I have mentioned. I do not want to point the bone at anyone but the facts are available. 
I want the Minister, in reply, to tell the House why he approved the sale of the Moresby' and why he is allowing Burns Philp, a wealthy company, to exploit labour in the Australia-New Guinea trade. This concerns not only Burns Philp but other companies which are operating services between New Guinea and Australia and are using cheap labour and are working men in conditions which are well and truly below those applying to Australian seamen. 
I preface a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport by pointing out that in February,  Mr Davis  Hughes, M.L.A., Minister for Public Works in the New South Wales Government, met a deputation representing the Newcastle City Council, the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce, the Newcastle Chamber of Manufactures, the Hunter Valley Research Foundation and the Newcastle Trades Hall Council, as well as Federal and State members of Parliament, all of whom are interested in building a new graving dock at the State Dockyard in Newcastle.  Mr Hughes  assured the deputation that after a thorough investigation his Government had decided to build a new graving dock 900 feet long and 150 feet wide with a clearance of 30 feet over the sill. Did the Commonwealth Government offer a shipbuilding subsidy of 33% when the State Dockyard had previously decided to build a floating dock? When did the New South Wales Government apply to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance to build this new graving dock and when may it expect an answer? Has Cairncross Dock in Brisbane closed until August? Has this resulted in Australian tankers and bulk carriers requiring docking facilities having to go to Singapore, Hong Kong and other ports outside Australia for docking and repair? Has the closing of Cairncross Dock emphasised the serious shortage of large docks in Australia and the need for a new graving dock capable of docking the large tankers and bulk carriers operating on the Australian coast? 
Once again we have been subjected to one of the Fascist-like ravings of half truths and inaccuracies that we have become accustomed to hearing from the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  The matter that I wish to touch on in the limited time available to us in the debate on the adjournment motion is the major fire that took place in Whyalla on Saturday night when the 'Amanda Miller', a ship under construction, was apparently completely or almost completely destroyed. One of the things that concern me at this stage is that this Parliament has not received a report by way of a statement on this incident from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  who I understand is going overseas tomorrow. I understand that an inquiry is under way at the present moment between the Australian Shipbuilding Board and Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, an inquiry from which the owners of the 'Amanda Miller', R. W. Miller Holdings Co. Ltd, have been specifically excluded. I understand that the company has made inquiries and has requested that it be admitted to the inquiry and permitted to take part but has been definitely and positively excluded from it. According to Press reports and other information available to me, the company has already contributed between $3m and $4m towards the cost of the construction of this ship. Working on the basis of a 33% subsidy, one is entitled to believe that the Australian Shipbuilding Board's contribution at this stage is about $2m, by way of progress payments. Therefore the Parliament is entitled to know just what is happening with $2m of our money which has been invested by way of subsidy in the 'Amanda Miller'. 
There are so many gaps in the accounts concerning this unfortunate accident that I think a public inquiry is required. This Government is developing a policy of completely excluding public inquiries. There was a private inquiry into the disastrous Port Hedland air crash on 31st December 1968. The Department of Civil Aviation carried out the inquiry, brought down certain findings and then refused to permit a public inquiry into it. This was another hole in corner job. The Minister for Shipping and Transport recently made a statement on the grounding of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' to the north of Australia. When 1 asked for a public inquiry into the matter he said: 'Not at this stage. An inquiry is being conducted by the Department.' These hole in comer methods are just not good enough. These matters should be subjected to public scrutiny so that all persons involved or interested could be in a position to take part in the inquiries. 
As 1 said a moment ago, there are several aspects of this whole incident that need clearing up. First of all we have to bear in mind that the workmen finished work on this ship at 3 o'clock on the Saturday afternoon. In the vicinity of 10 p.m. the crew of a tug which was lying off the slipway noted that the ship was on fire. There are very strong rumours prevalent at the moment - in fact 1 have heard very strong reports - to the effect that the fire was noted at about 9 p.m. Six men had been working on the ship approximately 30 minutes to an hour before Stannard's tug crew noted that the ship was on fire. Honourable members should bear in mind that when Stannard's tug crew saw that the ship was on fire all of the outside of the forward section of the ship was ablaze. I mean that the staging around it was ablaze, not that the steel was burning. The Minister should give us some answers to these questions tonight. What time was the general manager of the Whyalla shipyard advised that the 'Amanda Miller' was ablaze? What time did Stannard's crew note the fire? What time did the fire actually start? We want to know what time the security guards started to do battle with the fire? It must be realised that the reports to date say that the fire started in the keel blocks of the ship. As I know something about shipbuilding I want to bring to the attention of honourable members the fact that the keel blocks under a ship are large pieces of hardwood timber, anything from 12 to IS inches square and from 4 to 6 feet long. These blocks were ablaze. 
Honourable members have had an opportunity, as I have, of seeing photographs of the fire showing the blocks ablaze. I ask: How would it be possible for a fire on a ship out in the open, as the 'Amanda Miller' was, not to be sighted by the watchmen on duty that night long before it was sighted? The Minister has seen the ship, as 1 have. I have not seen it since the fire, but both he and I saw it on the one occasion. How did the fire start? We must remember that the men finished work at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, and it was not until 9 or 10 o'clock at night that the fire was noted. These are important things thai require some explanation. If the watchmen were carrying out their duties at hourly or 2-hourly intervals - I believe in this case they made 2-hourly inspections - why was the fire not noted long before it was? Is there a fire attendant working on these ships while they are under construction, as is the case in some of the shipyards throughout Australia? Was there a fire attendant constantly going around this ship to make sure that there was not a fire? Where you have men working with electric welding and where they have oxy-acetylene burning and where there are hot sparks flying everywhere there is an ever constant danger of a fire. What I want to know is: Was there a fire attendant on the ship while it was under construction, and did that fire attendant carry out a close inspection of the ship for at least 1 hour after the men ceased work? Furthermore, are watchmen's duties so substantial - as we often find they are in these places - that they have time only to race from point A to point B, from point B to point C, and from point C to point D, put their key in the clock and then race on to the next point; that they have not time really to have a look around to see whether there are fires or anything else requiring their attention? This is another question to which I think the Minister should give us an answer. 
How far apart are the fire hydrants, and where are they located on the slipway? Were they located in a position, as I believe they were on this occasion, where the firemen could not get near them because of the nature of the fire? Why were they located in such a position? Why were they not located in a position where they could be easily accessible for the connection of hoses? How many hydrants are there along the slipway? Are chemical fire extinguishers located at central positions so that at least they can be trained quickly on to a fire which has broken out? How often is the equipment tested? When was the equipment which was used on this occasion last tested to ascertain whether it was serviceable and in a fit condition to fight a fire such as this one? Furthermore, from Press reports it is apparent that there were on board the ship large number of oxy-acetylene bottles :iud propane bottles which contain highly inflammable gases. Why were so many of 4,Ar bottles stored around the ship in such large quantities that when the fire broke out they became a hazard to the men fighting the fire? 
Why was the BHP fire fighting unit out of action, unserviceable, for 2 months? What alternative arrangements had the company made to fight a fire during the period when that fire unit was out of action? After all, BHP knew that it was outside the limit of the town where it could call on the town fire brigade. What alternative arrangements had it made? Unfortunately, I have to race through these matters because of the limited time at my disposal tonight. BHP used the town fire brigade that night for only one reason, that is, that the men on that fire brigade were volunteers. Because of the type of men they are, they were prepared to go out and give a hand because there was a fire under way. One of the things that strikes me is the fact that the Minister, in reply to a question by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  yesterday, said: 
. in my opinion the circumstances of the fire were such that no reasonable man could have expected even the most adequate of fire fighting equipment to extinguish the blaze once it became substantial. 
The fact of the matter is that there was no equipment with which to extinguish the blaze. There was just no equipment there. The men were trying to fight the fire with inadequate facilities. Even in the first hour of the fire, which is the most important time of any fire, there was insufficient water pressure to combat the blaze. This is where the real trouble lies. There was insufficient water pressure there to put out any semblance of a fire. Why was not the fire reported much sooner than it was? I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: When is this Parliament going to be advised of what happened there? Can we expect the fire commissioner's report to be tabled in this place? Why cannot we have a full public inquiry, instead of a hole in the corner inquiry which is so often held into these matters? 
es asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd, in August 1968, import a jackup oil drilling barge named 'Jubilee'. 
Was an import licence necessary: if so what were the conditions of the licence. 
Could this barge have been built in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice:  ls he able to say whether the United Suites Government subsidises the United States of America owned Matson Navigation Company Shipping Line: if so, what subsidy is paid. 
I move as an amendment to the motion of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp): 
That all words after 'That,' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'so many of the recommendation!, of the 
Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works regarding the development of the RAAF Base at Pearce, Western Australia, which deal with living accommodation be referred back to the Committee for further consideration to ensure that adequate sound proofing is provided for new accommodation'. 
In moving the amendment I draw the attention of honourable members to the interim report presented to this Parliament in September of last year by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. Paragraph 14 of the report states: 
Your Committee, in the course of inspections of RAAF bases in various places in Australia, has noted the proximity of existing and planned houses for RAAF personnel and families to sources of aircraft noise generated by RAAF aircraft. Your Committee is concerned at this apparent indifference towards the ordinary comfort of persons committed to living on these Service bases and would commend measures to mitigate the effects of aircraft noise to existing homes and recreational buildings. Your Committee urges reconsideration of plans already approved for residential development on RAAF bases so as to avoid unnecessary exposure of Service personnel to aircraft noise. It also commends these considerations for personnel in future planning of RAAF bases. 
This Government was responsible for the appointment and the reappointment on 2 further occasions of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. The Government has gone to great pains to emphasise the point that it was responsible for having this important subject raised at the International Civil Aviation Organisation conference, lt became an important topic for discussion at that conference. The Government's own Committee, on which it has 4 members and the Opposition has 3 members, unanimously recommended to this Parliament that something should be done about the various Royal Australian Air Force bases or Service bases as a whole to provide adequate sound proofing of living accommodation. At the various bases which we visited, for  example.  Williamtown in the Newcastle district. Pearce - the very base in question - and Richmond, we found on inspection one thing in common. That was that the accommodation was built alongside and in fact very close to the runways but all that we could get in reply to the questions we asked of officers and other people that we interviewed at those places was that they had no complaints. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  as a reasonable man: What would be the position of any Service officer, airman or anyone at all who complained about the noise on a RAAF base? What would be the position of his family if he complained about it? I do not have to answer that question because it is obvious that no-one would complain about it. 
No-one can deny the fact that there is a noise problem at airports throughout Australia today and this same problem exists on RAAF bases but to a greater extent. We took sound readings of various aircraft using airports including Boeing 707s, Boeing 727s, DC8s and smaller aircraft such as Electras and Friendships. Honourable members who represent electorates adjacent to airports know that there is an aircraft noise problem. Service fields accommodate Macchi trainers and no-one will suggest for a moment that the Macchi is a nice silent type of aircraft that you cannot hear. I do not want to give the actual sound readings for the Mirage aircraft as they are incorporated in the interim report of the Committee but they show that the Mirage aircraft is the noisiest aircraft operating in Australia today. 
This Government has yet not made up its mind whether it is going to buy the Fi ll or the Phantom. These aircraft, I believe, are even noisier than is the Mirage. The Public Works Committee has brought down its report wherein it disregards altogether the recommendations of the Aircraft Noise Committee. Something has to be done and done at a very early date about the noise problem. J report this because I think it is worthy of repetition: The Aircraft Noise Committee also recommended that these considerations should be made for personnel in future planning of RAAF bases. We made that recommendation at a time early enough for the Public Works Committee to give it serious consideration and to act on the Aircraft Noise Committee's recommendations. 
1 know it is a joint committee and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to accept its report as it accepted the Aircraft Noise Committee's report. 1 understand that thanks to the initiative of some of the members of the Public Works Committee this matter was again dealt with by that Committee. This is shown in the later pages of the Com mittee's report. This matter was dealt with and the matter of aircraft noise was again resurrected. On page 14 of the Committee's report reference is made to the fact that there is a noise problem and that the Department of Air is considering that problem. The Department is going to proceed with the construction of sleeping accommodation for 306 service personnel. Surely .the problem involved cannot be treated with the contempt with which the Committee is dealing with it or the Department is dealing with it at this stage. These men are entitled to the consideration of this Parliament so that adequate soundproofing of their accommodation can be provided. The accommodation recommended is for all ranks. 1 would like to quote from the Committee's report. Paragraph 33 of the report deals with officers' sleeping block and laundry and extensions to officers' mess. The report states: 
In addition, a 2-storey sleeping block, accommodating S senior and 24 junior officers, will be constructed adjacent to the mess. 
Further on, in paragraph 35, which deals with senior NCOs' sleeping block and laundry, the report states: 
The sleeping block will accommodate 48 senior NCOs on 3 Poors with the bedrooms grouped around a central service core. 
Paragraph 37 - airmen's sleeping block - states: 
This standard 3-storey building will accommodate 148 airmen. 
Surely these men are entitled to adequate protection against noise, which at this stage is not going to be reduced but will  continue  to be increased, as we realise when we know that 43 Macchi aircraft arc based at Pearce. 
All I want is an assurance from the Minister that this matter will be referred back to the Committee. I have not taken into consideration the sleeping accommodation which will also be provided in the new fire station. The new fire station will be able to house 5 fire brigades. Paragraph 31 of the report states: 
Fire station - the standard  fire  station proposed  will  house  4  fire engines,  duty  crew sleeping quarters  and  will include a duplicate display panel  tor  the  fire  alarm system. 
These men are entitled to some consideration by this Parliament. It is for this reason that I have moved my amendment so that the sections of the report dealing with accommodation can be referred back for further consideration. I am not saying that the Department cannot go on with all the other things that have been decided upon in regard to the technical improvement at Pearce. I am not hindering that in any way whatsoever. The Department can go ahead with these matters. There are reports available today to the Department of Air showing how it can soundproof buildings. Only last Thursday the Aircraft Noise Committee sitting in Sydney received evidence from experts as to what can be done - what should be done to provide protection against aircraft noise. There are any amount of reports in the United Kingdom on this subject. There is the Wilson Committee report which has dealt with this matter extensively. There is information available to the Department of Air so that at least it can act with some regard for the men who are in its service and who are signed up for periods of 6 years - men who are the frontline troops of this country. 1 ask the Government to accept the amendment. If the amendment is forced to a vote I ask honourable members to vote to support it so that the people for whom they express concern so often in this place will be looked after. Here is an example where they are not prepared to provide these people with adequate, decent sound proof accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Was Ansett Airlines given permission on Sunday night 8th March 1970, to fly a Boeing 727 aircraft from Melbourne to Sydney at 11.00 p.m. and return from Sydney at approximately 1.00 a.m. Monday morning 9th March. 
If so, why was this company permitted to break the 11.00 p.m. curfew at both Sydney and Melbourne airports. 
asked  the  Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice:  ls he able to say whether the Yokohama Marine Court on 18th March 1970 commenced an inquiry into the loss of the 'Bolivar Maru' which sank on 5th January 1970; if so, does he know the finding of the Court. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Government made grants to industry for research over the past 2 years. 
Was the Carlton United Brewery granted $31,440. 
If so, in which field of research was the money spent. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
During 1969 how many (a) ships and (b) tankers passed through the Torres Strait. 
What was the tonnage of the ships. 
Who were their owners and charterers. 
What was their country of registration. 
On what date did they pass through the Strait. 
What cargoes were being carried. 
What was the originating port and port of destination in each case. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the design of the bulk carriers 'Darling River', Iron Hunter', 'Bogong' and other ships of similar size built in Australia in the last S years in any way similar to the Japanese-owned bulk carriers Bolivar Maru' of 54,000 DWT lost on 5 January 1970, and the 'California Maru' of 62,000 DWT lost on 10 February 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On how many occasions during 1969 was the 11 p.m. curfew broken at: 
Sydney Airport; and 
Melbourne Airport. 
On how many occasions when the curfew was broken was permission granted by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What fire righting and fire prevention facilities are available in Australian shipyards. 
Can he say how these facilities compare with those in Japanese, British, Swedish and West German shipyards. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many dredges were built in Australian shipyards during the last 10 years. 
At which shipyard was each built. 
What was the date of completion of each dredge. 
Who is the present owner. 
What is the size and type of each dredge. 
What was the cost of each vessel. 
Which of the dredges are still working in Australia. 
How many dredges were imported into Australia in the past 10 years. 
Who is the present owner of each of these vessels. 
What is the size of each dredge. 
What were the conditions of entry of each dredge. 
What was the date of entry and the dutypaid on each of these vessels. 
Which of these dredges are still working  in  Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Is he able to list the countries in which there are regulations requiring the fitting of storm chokes to oil and/or gas wells. 
asked the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Are storm chokes fitted to all nil and/or gas wells in Australia. 
Are there any Commonwealth or State regulations requiring the fitting of storm chokes to oil and gas wells in Australia. 
 Mr Speaker,  it is obvious that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has been whistling in the dark and hoping that if he talks long enough he may be able to convince himself, but certainly not the people of South Australia, that Hall will be re-elected. The matter to which I wish to refer tonight is the recent fire at the Whyalla shipyards when the 'Amanda 
Miller', a tanker which was well under construction, was almost totally destroyed. This fire broke out on 18th April 1970. On 22nd April, on the adjournment debate here, I asked a number of questions of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  These were questions to which I considered at that time, without having inspected the ship, it was necessary for the Minister to provide honourable members in this place with answers. In reply to me the Minister said: i  have not made a statement to the House, but 
I intend to make a statement when  1  have the facts before me which I believe the House should have at its command. 
Although that statement was made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport on 22nd April it is now 2 1st May - almost a month later - and no statement has been presented to the Parliament on what happened at Whyalla where in the vicinity of $2m of Commonwealth money, involved by way of subsidy, was lost because of a fire. On 8th MayI placed on the notice paper 3 questions, Nos 969, 970 and 971. If the Minister does not know the answer to the questions now I will give him the answer. If the Minister is being correctly advised on what happened and what is happening in connection with that unfortunate event he should be able to answer these 3 questions. The first question was made up of 6 parts, the second was made up of 8 parts and the third was made up of 6 parts. If the Minister has been correctly advised he should have been able to answer them long before now. But, as I said a moment ago, if he docs not know the answers I will give them to him. In this way we might be able to have some of these questions removed from the notice paper. 
The most important part of this matter is that on 22nd April in reply to me in the adjournment debate the Minister gave an undertaking that he would make a statement to the Parliament on what happened on that occasion, but here it is a month to the day later and we have had no reply. I am pleased that the Minister is in the chamber. I gave him notice thatI would be making a statement tonight which would concern him. I hope that he can give some information as to when he will make a statement on the lire that occurred on 18th 
April and, most important, about when he proposes to answer the 3 questions which are of vital concern and in which many people are interested. 
I notice that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this place, is present. He is aware of what I want to speak about soI shall deal with the matter that concerns him.In reply to question No. 644 on 12th May the Minister answered some questions which I had put on notice dealing with the breaking of the11 p.m. curfew at Sydney Airport and Melbourne Airport. With regard to Sydney Airport the Minister advised me that between 1st April 1969 and 3 1 st March 1970 there were 350 movements by jet aircraft during the curfew period from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m., that of this total 178 were special flights arranged to meet the heavy traffic demands of holiday periods such as Christmas. New Year, Easter and other school holidays, and that the remaining 172 were scheduled services delayed unavoidably by adverse weather. 
I accept the explanation for the 172 aircraft which were delayed because of adverse weather which probably caused a bad  connection  with flights coming in from other cities. These are circumstances which we can all appreciate. I do not think any of us would like to see people delayed unnecessarily because of adverse weather or because of the late arrival of an aircraft. So I accept the explanation regarding the 172 aircraft which broke the curfew from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. In the case of the 178 aircraft which broke the curfew during that 12 months the explanation is not acceptable to me. I know that the explanation is not acceptable to any honourable member on this side of the House whose electorate is involved with the problem of aircraft noise. It is time for the Department of Civil Aviation, and particularly the Minister for Civil Aviation who apparently has granted permission for these flights, to review the policy and not allow airlines to operate in curfew hours. 
So far as Melbourne is concerned, the answer discloses that in the period from 1st May 1969 there were 69 movements of which the Minister approved involving regular transport aircraft. 
This information shows that over a period of 20 days during the Christmas holidays there were 44 movements consisting of 16 departures and 28 arrivals. During Easter 1970 there were 36 movements, consisting of 14 departures and 22 arrivals over a 6-day period. During the AugustSeptember school holidays there were 1 1 movements, consisting of 3 departures and 8 arrivals. All these figures relate to Melbourne. So the same thing applies there. 
The Department should not approve of scheduled flights such as these. On another occasion Ansett Airlines of Australia applied for, and was granted, permission for a Boeing 727  t  leave Sydney at 1.07 a.m. The purpose of this flight was to take a computer to Melbourne which had been ordered by the Melbourne Stock Exchange. Here was a case where the Department should not have granted permission for this machine to be transported by aircraft from Sydney to Melbourne in the curfew hours. It is obvious that even though the Government gives lip service to doing something about aircraft noise, in reality it is doing nothing. One thing that is obvious is that the airlines today have insufficient aircraft. There are numerous cases where aircraft passengers are unnecessarily delayed. I saw 2 instances just recently. On 30th April I was booked to travel from Sydney to Melbourne to Adelaide on the 2.15 p.m. flight out of Sydney. Everyone was on board the aircraft. The motors were started up and we thought we were on our way. Then all of a sudden the motors were cut out and we were tipped off because there had been an hydraulic fault in the aircraft. That meant that instead of getting out of Sydney at 2.15 p.m. in fact I got out at 7.15 p.m. This was because the aircraft on which I was to have travelled to Melbourne at 2.15 p.m., if I was to make the connection to Adelaide from Melbourne, was unable to make the connection. So I had to sit around twiddling my thumbs until 7.15 p.m. A number of other people were unfortunate to be in the same position as myself. 
We saw an incident, in my opinion of maladministration on the part of TransAustralia Airlines. On Tuesday, 19th May, flight 421 which usually leaves Sydney at 8.30 a.m. was ready to depart. We sat there until about 8.55 a.m. when we were suddently advised that because flight 499 from Newcastle was not able to make the connection, which would be flight 499 to Canberra, it had been decided to transfer all the passengers in Sydney who were booked from Sydney to Canberra onto flight 421. I am not objecting to this. It is something that they should do more often. But the fact of the matter is that the TAA people in Sydney knew that the flight from Sydney to Newcastle that morning would not be able to land because Newcastle was fog-bound. I was fortunate enough to get out on a Masling aircraft. They knew that the Friendship, flight 499, would not be available, and while they were making up their minds what to do the aircraft was still circling around over Williamtown, Newcastle, waiting to land. There should be people there who aTe able to make decisions on the spot. 
In relation to the shortage of aircraft - and it is obvious that there is a shortage of aircraft - until such time as additional DC9 and Boeing 727 aircraft become available to supplement planes already in service, the airlines should be giving consideration, if necessary, to chartering aircraft from overseas so as to ensure that the curfew hours will not be broken during holiday periods. This would also ensure that when an aircraft is unserviceable at least there will be another aircraft to replace it. I hope that the Minister and the Department of Civil Aviation through TAA will give serious consideration to rectifying this anomaly. 
This Bill is to provide for the construction of a railway from Port Augusta to Whyalla in South Australia and for purposes connected therewith. The construction of this railway cannot be looked at as the construction of just 1 railway, lt must be treated, first, as a project that is essential for the development of a rapidly expanding section of South Australia. It must also be looked at as part of the overall pattern of standardisation of railway gauges throughout Australia and the extension of that particular railway system. Over the years, the Federal Parliament has attempted - and I give the various governments concerned full credit for this - to expand and develop standardisation, but many of the States have a very bad record in this field. Therefore, we have to look at the whole question of standardisation of gauges right back to 1921, when a royal commission was appointed to examine and bring down a report on the advisability of standardisation. As a result of that report one section of line was constructed and completed. It was an important link. I refer  to  the Kyogle to Brisbane section which enabled standard gauge line traffic to travel straight through from Sydney to the Queensland capital, Brisbane. 
Very little was done until 1944 when the late E. J. Ward, who was Minister for Transport in the Labor Government, asked for a report on standardisation, and the report was prepared by  Sir Harold  Clapp. Once again there was no great activity in the matter. In 1949, after the States, and in particular the then Government of New 
South Wales, were unable to agree to do anything about it,  Mr Ward,  on behalf of the Chifley Labor Government, presented to this Parliament the Railway Standardisation (South Australia) Agreement Bill. There are some very interesting facts in this Bill and the associated agreement. I seek the approval of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sfnclair)  to incorporate in Hansard a few clauses of this agreement which set out very clearly what the responsibilities of the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments were in the matter. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the clauses in Hansard. 
PART 11- WORKS FOR THE STANDARDISATION OF RAILWAY GAUGES 
The State shall carry out or execute, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the following works and undertakings, namely: 
Conversion to standard gauge of the entire South Australian 5' 3" gauge system and of the 3' 6" gauge lines of the South Eastern Division, the conversion to standard gauge of existing locomotives and rolling stock suitable for conversion, and the construction of standard gauge locomotives and roiling stock to the extent necessary to replace the existing capacity of all units unsuitable for conversion to standard gauge. 
Conversion to standard gauge of the 3' 6" gauge lines of the Peterborough Division of the South Australian Railways, the conversion to standard gauge of existing locomotives and rolling stock suitable for conversion, and the construction of standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock to the extent necessary to replace the existing capacity of all units unsuitable for conversion to standard gauge. 
The provision of terminal facilities rendered necessary by the conversion of any line specified in the foregoing provisions of this clause. 
PART HI - FINANCE 
(1.) Seven-tenth of the cost of the standardisation works set out in clause 5 of this Agreement shall be borne by the Commonwealth and three-tenths of such cost shall be borne by the State. 
PART IV- SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS 
The Commonwealth shall undertake: 
the conversion to standard gauge of the 3' 6" gauge lines of the Commonwealth Railways from Port Augusta to Alice Springs, the conversion to standard gauge of existing locomotives and rolling stock suitable for conversion, and the construction of standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock to the extent necessary to replace the existing capacity of all units unsuitable for conversion to standard gauge; 
the construction of a new standard gauge railway from Alice Springs to Birdum and the construction of the standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock necessary to operate this line; and 
the conversion to standard gauge of the 3' 6" gauge Commonwealth Railway line from Birdum to Darwin, the conversion to standard gauge of existing locomotives and rolling stock suitable for conversion and the construction of standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock to the extent necessary to replace the existing capacity of all units unsuitable for conversion to standard gauge. 
The Commonwealth shall bear the cost of carrying out the works specified in the last preceding clause. 
I thank the Minister. Before leaving the agreement I would just like briefly to draw attention to several factors in the clauses. In PartII, clause 5, the agreement states: 
The State shall carry out or execute, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the following works and undertakings, namely: 
Conversion to standard gauge of the entire South Australian 5 ft 3 in gauge system and the 3 ft 6 in gauge lines of the South Eastern Division . . . 
Conversion to standard gauge of the 3 ft 6 in gauge lines of the Peterborough Division of the South Australian Railways . . . 
The lines were the responsibility of the State Government. The Federal Government had responsibility for the conversion to standard gauge of the 3 ft 6 in gauge line of the Commonwealth Railways from Port Augusta to Alice Springs. Also, clause 21 states that the Commonwealth shall undertake: 
The construction of a new standard gauge railway from Alice Springs to Birdum and the construction of the standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock necessary to operate thisline; and 
The conversion to standard gauge of the 3 ft 6 in gauge Commonwealth Railway line from Birdum to Darwin . . . 
The fact of the matter is that very little of this agreement has been honoured, but admittedly portion of it has. The Port Augusta to Alice Springs line has been upgraded but it has not been converted to the standard guage. The construction of a new standard gauge railway from Alice Springs to Birdum has not been undertaken. The conversion to standard guage of the 3ft 6in line from Port Augusta to Alice Springs also has not yet been undertaken. So when we look at the whole picture we find that very little of this agreement has been honoured. I think there is one particular part of it that has not been honoured and it is important. It may be said it has nothing to do with the Port AugustaWhyalla standard gauge conversion. The Adelaide-Port Pirie line is important because if one reads the report presented to the Minister in June 1966 it is very clear that the construction of this new section of railway was deferred until this time because of the failure of the Commonwealth and South Australian governments to complete the standardisation of the AdelaidePort Pirie section of that line. As far as the standardisation of this section is concerned. I was critical of the Government's decision some 18 months ago when we had a Bill before this House dealing with standardisation. I said then that the Adelaide-Port Pirie section could have been part of the overall programme of standardisation of the Sydney-Fremantle line and the upgrading of certain sections of New South Wales line. Standardisation of the Adelaide-Port Pirie portion should have been part and parcel of that plan just as this Bill we have now before us to construct the Port AugustaWhyalla section should have been part of the standardisation programme. 
We have seen the completion of the eastwest line which has, since the first official train went through on 23rd February this year, been operating with passenger traffic. Freight has been travelling on the line since November last year. So the whole section has been operative for 6 months but it will be a couple of years before the Port Augusta-Whyalla section is brought into the overall plan. Even at this stage there is no indication of whether or when the Government will proceed with the Adelaide-Port Pirie scheme. Again we have this stop-go policy adopted by the various governments with regard to standardisation instead of standardising all the branch lines, such as Adelaide-Port Pirie and Port AugustaWhyalla, at the one time. There is not a shadow of doubt that this Bill should have been before this Parliament over 2 years ago so that the proposal before us could have blended in with the general scheme of standardisation. The Adelaide-Port Pirie proposition likewise should have been brought in at the one time so that all the work could have been done together. There has been no justification over the years for the failure of the Commonwealth and the South Australian governments to complete the standardisation of the Adelaide-Port Pirie line, which should have been connected to the Trans Continental Railway. 
The next thing we should have from the Government is some scheme for the standardisation of the Melbourne-Adelaide line so that at least all the capital cities of Australia might be connected on the standard gauge of 4 ft 81 in. As far as this Bill is concerned not a great deal can be said about it but I wish to criticise the Minister over the scant information made available to honourable members who are asked to support this proposition. Once again the Cabinet is treating the Parliament as if it was a rubber stamp. The Cabinet members are the brains. They know everything. We have to trot along behind and accept everything they toss up to us without any facts and figures being presented to us. I defy the Minister to indicate anywhere in the second reading speech or anywhere in the Bill where honourable members can gain any information about the actual cost of this railway or why the proposal was not adopted in 1966. It was 9.30 last night before the Minister gave me a copy of the section of the report which was presented to him in 1966. The further report was presented to him by the Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways,  Mr Smith,  late last year. So from the point of view of the average honourable member there is no information. He has to accept as gospel what the Minister says, without an opportunity to analyse the figures. 
I have made a very brief examination of the figures and I find a few things of interest. If we go back to the 1966 figures, which were available to the Minister, they show that track construction costs would total $3,030,120 and the cost of rolling stock would be $1,629,000. I do not want to go through each individual item. I would be quite happy to incorporate the tables in Hansard so that everyone may peruse these figures at a later stage, because I think they are important. So with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard these tables. 
I thank the Minister for that assurance. I believe it is important. 1 take it from the report that the earth construction works are to be carried out by contract labour or on an outside tender basis. 
What about the track laying? 
But will the track laying be done by Commonwealth Railways, which I presume has the best track laying equipment? 
Will the tenders be compared with the price that Commonwealth Railways can do it for? 
I accept that assurance that Commonwealth Railways will at least be given an opportunity to construct its own railway. I come to the schedule dealing with level crossings. Has the Minister given any consideration to installing barriers at each of these level crossings? We know from experience that there is always some galoot who is prepared to give it a go. Probably 9 times out of 10 he will succeed, but on the tenth occasion he may miss out. We had a recent unfortunate tragedy in South Australia in which some 16 passengers on a bus were killed. According to a coroner's report, the driver was under the influence of alcohol. These things happen. On the New South Wales north coast just recently some 16 or 17 young children were killed in a bus fatality. I do not know whether the driver gave it a po. The children were killed in a level crossing smash. There may not be a train along a railway line every half hour. There will probably be only 4 trains a day - 2 each way or maybe 3 each way. In these circumstances people are more inclined to give it a go. 
Flashing lights are to be installed at these level crossings, but I am wondering whether television could be introduced. This is done in a lot of places. Even though barriers are in operation, they are operated from a central point, using television. I am wondering whether this would be a practical proposition. Some of these level crossings are reasonably close to Port Augusta. I ask the Minister to give this some consideration. We do not want somebody giving it a go and not succeeding. 
1 know. But a lot of level crossings are to be equipped only with flashing lights. In my opinion we should not be constructing more level crossings with flashing lights. We should think in terms of barriers. Level crossings should be under the control of a central operator working with the aid of a television set. There should be one person responsible for opening and shutting gates. We should not be constructing more level crossings. The Opposition supports this Bill. We think it should have been introduced years ago to assist the development of this rapidly expanding section of South Australia. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Leader of the Opposition and the Minister for External Affairs have the use of a Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft on their recent visits to New Guinea and Indonesia respectively? Did these men extend open invitations to Press organisations to send their representatives with them? Can he say why he changed this procedure on his recent visit to Japan, when he issued non-transferable invitations to certain selected journalists? Can he say why journalists on these flights were carried free of charge and not, as in the past charged the equivalent of commercial first class rates for a flight, which is also the practice when journalists accompany the  President  of the United States of America on VIP aircraft provided by him for journalists to accompany him?  Is  he aware that responsible members of the Press gallery are genuinely concerned with this change in policy and in particular with his action in extending nontransferable invitations to selected journalists as they believe it may compromise some members into believing that if they write the truth they will not be invited to accompany him again on trips? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many road accidents were there annually in each State during the last 10 years. 
How many accidents involved two or more vehicles. 
How many persons were (a) killed and (b) injured. 
How many of the drivers were under the influence of (a) alcohol, (b) drugs or (c) some illness which reduced driving efficiency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries submitted any firm proposal for the purchase of jumbo jets for use on internal routes. 
If so, which aircraft are recommended, and when is it intended to introduce them. 
Will their use result in a better service or a reduction in the frequency of flights. 
Will their introduction result in a reduction in fares and freights. 
What sparked the raising of the present matter of public importance by the Opposition was the decision of the Government to cancel the order which it placed with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the British Aircraft Corporation to design an advanced trainer-ground attack aircraft to the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. The RAAF, through the Department of Air, laid down the major requirements and said: 'This is the type of aircraft we would like you to design'. So this Australian organisation which has been in existence for some 35 years went to work on it as a joint defence project with the British Aircraft Corporation. Now all of a sudden, as a bolt from the blue, a decision is made that it does not meet our requirements and the Government wants to cancel the order. 
The Government has talked about what it is doing for the aircraft industry and what it has done for it, but the general attitude of the Government over the years has been typical of Conservative governments in this country for the past 70 years. In the early 1900s when the Australian Labor Party was moving and working for the establishment of an Australian Navy, a Royal Australian Air Force and an Australian Army, it was the people who occupy the benches opposite today - the Conservative element, whether it was the United Australia Party, the Liberal Party or the Conservatives; the anti-Labor force in this country - who at all times decried the efforts and the capacity of the Australian worker and Australian industry to produce these things. The same thing was said about the shipbuilding industry in the period from 1900 to 1930, and the shipbuilding industry was finally closed down. I do not have to remind honourable members of the criticism that was levelled at the Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Ben  Chifley, when he and his Government were responsible for the establishment of the automobile industry in Australia. Today it is one of the largest employers of labour in Australia. I acknowledge that it is over capitalised. We have too many motor cars being produced in Australia today, but honourable members cannot deny that it is a first class industry and is able to compete. If it were not so heavily over capitalised with so many different types of motor cars being produced, it would be in a much stronger position. 
That brings me to the point I would like to make here. The Government has talked for some considerable time about rationalising the Australian aircraft industry. What has it done about it? It has talked about it, but we have never got down to anything practical on this point. To me it appears to be running a commentary by various Ministers for Defence and various Ministers for Supply who make a statement and think that that will tide us over for the next 6 months. They think: That will shut them up. We have got them out of our hair'. The former Minister for Defence,  Mr A.  Fairhall, made a statement in Newcastle on 7th February. In it he said: 
The major contract, which could amount to $13m, has been signed with the General Aircraft Corporation of California, US, for the Australian manufacture of 100 wing sets and engine nacelles for a 36-seat feeder-route airline (known as the GAC-100). 
What has happened to it? That contract was signed 18 months ago. They have not driven a rivet yet. They have not cut a plate. No work has been done by the Government Aircraft Factory for that aircraft. The contract being signed shut the industry up for 6 months. That quietened the spokesmen for the industry. That got them out of the Minister's hair. We have had rationalisation statements made by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson).  We have heard the Minister talk about what the Government is going to do and how it is going to rationalise the Australian aircraft industry. We have heard talk but have seen no progress. Then there was a statement recently by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in which he said: 
The Government is to set up new machinery to work closely with Australian industry in a programme to achieve increased sales to the American and other overseas defence industries as an offset against Australian purchases of defence equipment. 
What has been the result? This was an excellent opportunity for the Government to develop an aircraft and use the knowledge and know-bow of one of the largest aircraft manufacturers in the world today, the British Aircraft Corporation. That organisation has produced some of the best aircraft in the recent decade or the last 20 years, aircraft comparable with any produced throughout the world. Its BACIII, is comparable in size, performance and capacity with the DC9. The Royal Australian Air Force saw fit to buy two BACH ls for its VIP flight in preference to the DC9. That again was an excellent opportunity to work in close collaboration with that large organisation which has the know-how and could transfer to the Australian industry the capacity to design aircraft, or to work towards that end. If this had cost a few million dollars then so what? The American Government recently lost $600m in grants to the Boeing company in an endeavour to design a swing wing supersonic transport. It is now a dead project Boeing finally advised the American Government that as far as it was concerned that could not be done at economic rates which would enable the aircraft to compete with the Concorde or some of the other aircraft which may be designed. 
The Opposition is trying to get this Government to assist an industry which is ' not a minor one of insignificant consequence. The aircraft industry is a major industry. Over the years it has employed 18,000 or 19,000 men and women. The peak level of employment at the various establishments operated by de Havilland is about 5,000. But at present, in round figures, it is employing about 2,500 employees, only about 66% of the company's capacity and only 60% of those people are working on aircraft. The remainder are working on other things merely so that the company can retain them. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation today is employing some 2,700 men and women. This is about 80% of its capacity. The same thing can be said about the Government Aircraft Factories. They have a capacity of about 3,000 but are employing now only about 2,070. The aircraft industry has the ability to produce, yet the Government is doing nothing about it. 
A lot can be said about the defence requirements of the Australian forces but I want to talk about commercial aircraft requirements. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table of figures compiled by the Parliamentary Library Research Service relating to imports of commercial aircraft. 

<graphic href="068131197006051_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

The figures relate to aircraft imports in the period 1964-65 to 1968-69. The table discloses that in the case of aircraft with an empty weight exceeding 5,000 lb, there were 314 imported in that 5-year period at a value of $196,698,000. In the case of aircraft with an empty weight of less than 5,000 lb there were 1,493 imported at a total value of $29,086,000. The value of all commercial aircraft imported in that period, together with spares, was $535,857,000. 
I think the Australian aircraft industry needs support. We should be forcing the airline operators and aviation organisations generally to do something to ensure that the Australian industry is preserved. One cannot deal with all these things in the short time available in this debate. I say that there should be a 4-point policy for this industry. Firstly, military aircraft manufacture should be in accordance with a clear cut Government policy and funding procedure. Secondly, the Government should be planning a light aircraft industry based on the requirements of general aviation and commuter airlines. Thirdly, the Government should aid the aircraft industry with substantial offset payments from overseas. Fourthly, the Services and the commercial airline operators should be forced to make early decisions about the type of aircraft they require so that the Australian aircraft manufacturing industry will be in a position to approach the companies concerned in order to sub-contract the work and to offset payments with a view to Australian industry getting its share. The Opposition accepts the fact that we cannot build 747s and Fills but we could at least build a lot of other aircraft. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships are trading between ports in Australia and the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
In which country were the ships built. 
Who are the (a) owners, (b) charterers and (c) Australian agents of the ships. 
In which country are the ships registered. 
What is their tonnage. 
What is the nationality of the crews. 
What conditions apply to the crews and what wages are paid. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I refer to a statement made by his predecessor, the then  Mr, now Sir Allen  Fairhall, on 7th February 1969. Under the heading Contract for Manufacture of Aircraft Wings in Australia' the then Minister was reported as having said: 
A major contract, which would amount to $13m, has been signed wilh the General Aviation Corporation of  California,  United States, for the Australian manufacture of 100 wing sets and engine nacelles for a 36 seat feeder route airliner (known as the GAC100). 
Has this contract been signed? If so, on what date? As 16 months have elapsed since  Sir Allen  Fairhall made this statement, can the Minister say when production of these 100 wing sets and nacelles commenced? If production has not yet commenced, can he give any indication to the House when it will commence? 
The Bill before the House is the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Bill 1970, the principal objective of which is to ratify an agreement that was entered into under the Tokyo Convention of 1963. This Bill deals with offences on aircraft and very briefly I will set out its provisions. It requires contracting States to provide for their criminal law to apply aboard their aircraft - that is, a flag law - on international flights, and it specifies that contracting states may exercise jurisdiction over offences committed on board aircraft. It defines the powers and responsibilities of the aircraft commander who finds that a person has committed or is about to commit a serious offence against the flag law of the aircraft or an act likely to endanger the safety of other persons on the aircraft. It also defines the powers and duties of contracting states in relation to offenders on board aircraft, including taking them into custody, making preliminary inquiries and deportation. Contracting states are required in cases of illegal seizure of aircraft to take all appropriate steps to restore control of the aircraft to its lawful commander. It is important to bear in mind that the Tokyo Convention does not apply to aircraft used in military, customs or police service or to aircraft that are on the ground. The Tokyo Convention definition of an aircraft on the ground relates to the period after the aircraft has landed and prior to when the motors are started for the aircraft to leave the terminal area. 
The object of the Convention is to restore aircraft and cargo to the rightful owners and to facilitate the resumption oft heir interrupted flight. Any offence committed on the aircraft is not necessarily a crime against international law but it is determined by the internal law of the contracting states. Honourable members are entitled to ask just how the Tokyo Convention of 1963 came about. It was organised by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, better known as ICAO, which is a part of the United Nations Organisation. It has 116 member nations. That will give honourable members some idea of what ICAO is and the import of this Convention. It is obvious that nations today are greatly concerned with the amount of hijacking that is taking place. I will deal with this aspect later on. 
One thing which concerns me very greatly is the fact that the recommendations of the Convention become operative as from 4th December 1969, although the conference was held in 1963. It has taken this Government all this time to make up its mind whether to ratify the agreement and whether there is any advantage in being a party to it. All honourable members are entitled to have some explanation for this delay. I am greatly concerned that the various nations have taken so long to ratify this agreement. WhenI sought information about this matter the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  supplied me with a table setting out the names of the countries which have ratified the agreement and certain other information. With the concurrence of honourable members I will incorporate that table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="068131197006095_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table discloses that as at this date only 43 countries have signed the agreement and only 22 have ratified it. To me this is a disappointing state of affairs when one realises that there are some 116 member countries of ICAO who were represented at the conference. Yet with all the hijacking that is taking place in the world today only 22 countries have seen fit to ratify the agreement. This Government is one which until this time has not seen fit to make any recommendation on this matter or to bring down legislation in this Parliament. We have heard at different times the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  state very proudly that Australia ranks third in the world in the use of domestic aviation facilities, ninth in the world in international air traffic and sixth in total aircraft movements. In Australia, where civil aviation is so important, it has taken this Government some 7 years to make up its mind whether to ratify the agreement. Australia should have been one of the first countries to indicate where it stood and legislation should have been brought before this Parliament a long time ago. 
Many countries have been lax in their efforts to sign the agreement. In fact the country most affected by hijacking, the United States of America, has been more lax than any other country. From the information which I have at my disposal it was not until 5th September 1969 that the United States saw fit to ratify the agreement. Since that conference was held in Tokyo a number of attempts have been made to gel other countries to sign and ratify the agreement. In fact at the International Civil Aviation Organisation Convention in Buenos Aires in September 1968 the USA raised the matter of unlawful hijacking of civil aircraft and as a result the Legal Committee of ICAO at its February meeting in 1969 asked all nations affiliated with ICAO first to ratify the Tokyo Convention and, if necessary, implement any additional legislation which the sub-committee of ICAO subsequently recommended. The recommendation which that Committee put forward was: 
Any person who on board an aircraft in flight 
unlawfully, by force or threat thereof, interferes with, seizes or otherwise wrongfully exercises control of that aircraft in order to change its itinerary, or 
attempts to perform such an act, or 
is an accomplice to a person who performs or attempts to perform such an act, shall be guilty of a penal offence. 
The conference also made the following recommendation dealing with the extradition of hijackers: 
The offence shall be deemed to be included as an extradition offence in any extradition treaty existing or to be concluded between the various Contracting States. 
The Contracting States which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty or reciprocity shall recognise the offence as a case of extradition as between themselves. 
The   offence  shall be treated, lor the purpose of extradition, as if it had been committed not only in the place in which it occurred, but also in the territory of the Slate of registration of the aircraft. 
This committee, which met in May 1969, set up from among its members a special committee of 1 1 members including, as I understand it, a representative of Australia, to deal with future acts of unlawful interference with civil aviation. The committee deals only with the aeronautical aspects of cases of hijacking and it has met frequently to consider the format of a questionnaire to be sent to the states concerned with aircraft incidents. The Committee is also examining the general problem of hijacking with a view to recommending action to discourage and prevent unlawful interference with aircraft, based on discussions the committee has had with other interested international bodies. I might at this stage ask the Attorney-General to indicate in his reply what progress has been made by this Committee. I personally have not been able to obtain positive information as to what actual results the committee has had and what countries have elected to bring in additional legislation, if necessary, to discourage and prevent, whenever possible, the hijacking of aircraft. As I said earlier I would like later to deal with this matter further. 
As recently as last Friday a report appeared in the Press of an incident which occurred in the US in which some fellow who had a hate on with the Taxation Department in that country had felt that he had been badly treated over some paltry sum of about $430 went to the extent of hijacking an aircraft. If he had been successful he could have brought about the destruction of that aircraft and the loss of the lives of the people on board. It is obvious that that individual was mentally deranged in some way or another and was suffering from an intense persecution complex. This is the kind of problem which faces those countries which are trying to do something about the problem of hijacking. As I said, I would appreciate n if the Minister could give to honourable members some indication of what has happened about the recommendations made by the Legal Committee of ICAO. 
In December 1969 Australia joined with 27 other sponsors in the United Nations in proposing draft legislation for adoption by the Sixth Committee which is the Legal Committee of the UN. We also joined with other states in publicly deploring violent interference with international civil aviation which endangers the lives of persons in no way involved with political conflicts in some areas of the world. At the TwentyFourth General Assembly of the United Nations the question of hijacking was again taken up in the Sixth Committee, and it might be of interest to honourable members if I were to read the resolution ultimately adopted by that Committee on 1 2th December 1969. The item is General Assembly Resolution 2551 and it states: 
The General Assembly, 
Deeply concerned over acts of unlawful interference wilh international civil aviation, Considering it necessary to recommend effective measures against hijacking in all its forms or any other unlawful seizure or exercise of control of aircraft, 
Mindful thai such acts may endanger the life and health of passengers and crew in disregard of commonly accepted humanitarian considerations, 
Aware that international civil aviation can only function properly in conditions guaranteeing the safety of its operations and the due exercise of the freedom of air travel, 
Calls upon States to take every appropriate measure to ensure that the respective national legislations provide an adequate framework for effective legal measures against all kinds of acts of unlawful interference with, seizure of, or other wrongful exercise of control by force of treat thereof over, civil aircraft in flight; 
Urges States in particular to ensure that persons on board who perpetrate such acts are prosecuted; 
Urges full support for the efforts of the International Civil Aviation Organisation directed towards the speedy preparation and implementation of a convention for appropriate measures, inter alia, with respect to making the unlawful seizure of civil aircraft a punishable offence and to the prosecution of persons who commit that offence: 
Invites States to ratify or accede to the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, signed in Tokyo on September 14. 1963, in conformity with the Convention. 
The Tokyo Convention had been ratified only a matter of 8 days prior to that. It was ratified or became law on 4th December 1969 and this resolution was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations only some 8 days later, lt is clear that members of the General 
Assembly were fairly unanimous in adopting the Convention. Once again that indicates the concern of people throughout the world about the extent of hijacking. 
The United States further disclosed its concern because on 16th December it convened a conference in Washington. Thirteen countries were invited to attend that conference to discuss what could be done about hijacking. Once again Australia was one of the countries to be invited. The conference unanimously agreed that hijacking seriously threatened the safely of international civil aviation; that solutions should be sought by all available means; and that a comprehensive and co-ordinated approach with maximum international cooperation was essential. It was also agreed that all states which had not already ratified the Tokyo Convention should be urged to do so as soon as possible. In the meantime, pending the enactment of national legislation it was decided that other countries should implement the provisions of Article 11 of the Tokyo Convention dealing with hijacking as though they had ratified the Convention. So that honourable members will know what is contained in Article 11 of the Convention I will read it. It states: 
Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft 
When a person on board has unlawfully committed by force or threat thereof an act of interference, seizure, or other wrongful exercise of control of an aircraft in flight or when such an act is about to be committed, Contracting States shall take all appropriate measures to restore control of the aircraft to ils lawful commander or to preserve his 'control of the aircraft 
In the cases contemplated in the preceding paragraph, the Contracting State in which the aircraft lands shall permit its passengers and crew to continue their journey as soon as practicable, and shall return the aircraft and its cargo to the persons lawfully entitled to possession. 
It is obvious to honourable members from all of these resolutions which have been carried - at the Tokyo Convention in 1963, then in subsequent meetings in Buenos Aires of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the reference to ICAO's legal committee, the resolution of the United Nations, then the United States convening a conference of countries interested in this matter - that hijacking is causing great concern today in civil aviation circles. 
Fortunately we in Australia have been lucky. 1 think we have only had 1 offence that could be classified as hijacking. On 14th May this year some fellow boarded one of Ansett's aircraft and demanded to be taken to Brisbane. I would say that that was possibly the nearest offence to hijacking that has taken place in Australia. 
Let us put it this way: Probably he was under great stress. I have some figures with me which make interesting reading. They disclose that a lot of the people who have hijacked aircraft throughout the world likewise have been under great mental stress at the time. So far as Australia is concerned, internally we have an Act called the Crimes (Aircraft) Act which was introduced by this Government in 1963. Information I have discloses that there have been only 5 convictions under this legislation. They were as follows: In May 1965, impersonating a Commonwealth officer on board an aircraft, fined $20 plus costs; in December 1964, making a false statement inferring intention to endanger safety of an aircraft - a bomb hoax - a bond of $20 against good behaviour for 12 months. He got out of that charge pretty lightly. He also must have been a little bit upset. The next case was in August 1965 when a person was charged with being in possession of a firearm on an aircraft. This resulted in the imposition of a $200 good behaviour bond for 2 years and $200 surety. The next case was in August 1967 when the charge was one of making a false statement inferring intention to endanger safely of an aircraft - a bomb hoax - for which the fine imposed was $75. In April 1968, a person was charged with carrying explosives and other dangerous goods while a passenger on an international flight. This resulted in a fine of $300 plus costs. That was the first time we got fair dinkum. Then, under the New South Wales Crimes Act, in November. 1964 a person was charged with larceny involving an aircraft. That person received a bond and surety of $200 plus compensation for damages. In March 1968 a person was imprisoned for 18 months for the illegal use of an aircraft. 
Of all those charges there are probably only 2 cases in which we were fair dinkum; first, under the Commonwealth legislation, when a person was fined $300 for carrying explosives and other dangerous goods on an international flight, and secondly, in March 1968 when a person was imprisoned for 18 months for illegally using an aircraft. At this stage I do not know what has happened to the fellow who tried to hire an aircraft, or borrow it, to take him from Sydney to Brisbane. 
Taken all round the situation is quite satisfactory. The Crimes (Aircraft) Act imposes severe penalties because a person who takes control of an aircraft by force or violence or by the threat of either can suffer a penalty of up to 20 years imprisonment. The death sentence is applied if there is destruction of an aircraft with intent to kill or with reckless indifference for life. The Crimes (Aircraft) Act applies to any Australian or foreign aircraft, either in flight between 2 Australian States or Territories, or between Australia and overseas countries, or any aircraft wholly outside of Australia. There are also air navigation regulations which prohibit the carrying of firearms on an aircaft, even by the crew. These regulations preventing people from carrying firearms on board an aircraft are excellent ones. There is an exception in that approval can be obtained from the Director-General of Civil Aviation.I think it is as well to make sure that air crews are not allowed to take firearms on board because many things can happen. If a pistol or gun is fired on board an aircraft many things could happen which could bring about the destruction of that aircraft. The cabin of a pressurised airliner could be depressurised; the oxygen lines could be hit and this in turn could cause a fire or explosion; some electrical gear could be broken which could cause a short circuit resulting in the aircraft catching fire. 
From Australia's point of view we may have covered the internal position fairly well. Australia is fortunate not to be faced with the turmoil that exists elsewhere in the world today. The United States has huge racial problems and is faced with the proximity of Cuba. There is general turmoil today in the United States and South America. The same can be said about Europe and the Middle East where wars and hatred exist. We have our political differences in Australia but we are not faced with the problems that exist in other countries. It is interesting to look briefly at the facts and figures. This legislation does cover the eventuality of crimes aboard aircraft but the main thing to remember is that in these instances we are dealing with people. The whole problem is that when dealing with people one has to contend with all sorts of things. I have some interesting figures contained in an extract from the 'American Journal of International Law', volume 63 of October 1969. It gives a list of the successful aircraft hijackings between 1st January 1968 and 8th September 1969 and also the States of registration of the successfully hijacked aircraft and the United States air carriers which have had aircraft hijacked between 17th February 1968 and 8th September 1969. The document is available in the Parliamentary Library. I understand that the American Journal of International Law' is a reputable journal that is published in the United States of America. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate it in Hansard. 

<graphic href="068131197006095_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

These tables disclose that from 1st January 1948 until the end of 1960 there were 135 hijackings. In the period from 1st January 1969 to 8th September 1969 there were 46 hijackings and in 1968 there was a total of 30. For the whole of 1969 there were approximately 60 hijackings. So one can see that out of a total of 135 hijackings 90 occurred in the years 1968 and 1969. It is obvious that in those 2 years there was a substantial increase. I do not want to make a speech about Communism versus the West but 1 want to draw attention to the fact that none of the Communist countries has signed the Tokyo Convention. Yet if one examines the table that has been incorporated in Hansard one will find that Communist countries are subjected to hijacking as are other countries. Bulgaria has had 1 hijacking, Cuba has had 7, Czechoslovakia has had 7, Hungary has had 2 and Poland has had 1 . I am referring to the period from 1948 to 1969. I have not taken into consideration the case that was reported at the weekend in which a young fellow held a bomb at the pilot's head and said: 'Right. Take me off to Denmark or else we will all go.' Poland had had 1 hijacking prior to that. Rumania has had 2 hijackings, the Soviet Union has had 1 and Yugoslavia has had 2. 
It is interesting to note that the United Kingdom has had only 1 hijacking. I understand that that occurred in 1967 when a charter aircraft carrying  Mr Tshombe  was forced to land in Algiers. After that took place those concerned with the hijacking removed  Mr Tshombe  from the aircraft and the aircraft was permitted to leave. These figures give some indication of the extent of hijacking in the world today. It may be of interest to honourable members to take a cross-section of the events that have taken place. In 1961 a United States aircraft was detained for 3 weeks in an effort to recover certain Cuban aircraft which had been attached by a court order in the United States. The Cubans tried to blackmail the Americans into releasing some of their aircraft in return for the aircraft that had been hijacked to Cuba and which they, were holding. Finally a settlement was made on the basis that the American company received back its airliner and the Cubans obtained some patrol boats which had been detained by the American authorities. A Venezuelan aircraft was detained in Cuba for 4 days while the Cubans demanded 531,466. On another occasion an American aircraft was hijacked to Cuba and on the way over the hijacker demanded the personal belongings of the passengers. When the aircraft arrived in Cuba the Cubans returned the money to the passengers. I give these few examples because I want to convey to honourable members that while most of the hijackings take place while aircraft are flying from America to Cuba, Cuba is not altogether a mecca for hijackers. On many occasions the Cubans have detained hijackers and many of them are still in prison in that country today. 
As I said earlier, countries are greatly concerned about hijacking today. When one realises that between January 1968 and October 1969 on American , aircraft alone 2,916 passengers and crew have been hijacked one gets some idea of the number of people involved. Therefore the Bill that is before the House is worthy of consideration. In the Middle East we have seen some fairly vicious actions. Aircraft have been blown up and attempts have been made to destroy aircraft. We have read  in the news the stories* - I do not know whether they are distorted but it is claimed that they are factual - of gun fights having taken place between Arab guerillas and security guards on Israeli aircraft. There was a case in August 1969 of a Trans World Airline Boeing 707 aircraft being held by the Syrians. When the passengers, with the exception of some of the Israelis, were released Trans World Airlines got their 707 back. These are some of the things which have occurred and which 1 think are worthy of mention. 
I have in my possession some information released by the United States Department of Justice during 1969 which discloses the types of people who are hijacking aircraft in the United States. The summary which has been made available covers the period to which I have referred. Of the people known to have hijacked aircraft 14 had criminal records, 4 were wanted for offences ranging from passing bad cheques to the attempted murder of a policeman, 3 were military deserters, 2 had domestic relations difficulties and 6 were discontented with living in the United States of America. Cuban refugees and American citizens were dissatisfied with life in the United States and the refugees decided to go back home. They hijacked some aircraft. There were 3 cases of kidnapping for political reasons. One of them involved a Cuban who had become an American citizen. The aircraft was hijacked in order to kidnap the captain. In addition to the cases I have mentioned, 10 mentally disturbed people were involved in hijackings. Honourable members can see from these facts that very few of the people involved in hijacking in the United States of America are people who want to get out of the country for political reasons. The cases that concern me most are those involving the 10 mentally disturbed people. Such people do not think clearly. They have an obsession of some type or other. There was a case last week of a fellow in an aircraft in America who had a persecution complex against the United States Supreme Court and the taxation department. He felt that he had been wrongly treated by them. Such people are liable to do anything. 
Every effort should be made to stop hijacking. As to how that is to be done,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  your guess is as good as mine. Between 196 1 and 1969 in the United States of America 24 people were arrested on charges ranging from piracy to concealing weapons. Of these 13 cases have been disposed of and the remainder are still awaiting court action. 
It is interesting to see just who were involved. There were 8 adults convicted and sentenced to terms of imprisonment ranging from 1 to 21 years. Four servicemen were court martialled, 4 juveniles were sent to reformatories, and one person was acquitted on the grounds of insanity. Records of hijackings have been kept from 1961 until 1969. Four of the people who had successfully hijacked aircraft to Cuba had returned to America. One came back via Mexico. Three of them who came back via Mexico finished up in Canada, and the Canadian Immigration Department caught up with these people and deported them to the United States of America. Of all those people who have been responsible for hijacking aircraft to Cuba, some have gone back to America and found themselves in trouble. No doubt they were the people who were given sentences ranging from 1 to 21 years. 
One could give numerous examples of the hijacking which has taken place. I do not propose to do that. I feel that I have fairly extensively described the types of people who are hijacking aircraft today. I feel this gives the impression of what is taking place. Whilst the Bill sets out to ratify the Tokyo Convention, I do not know whether it will do any good. When you decide to have hare pie, you first of all have to catch the hare. The same principle applies here. Before we can deal with the hijacker we have to catch him. The main thing is to stop the hijacking. As I have said, there were 135 cases of hijacking up to the end of last year. Judging by the figures, very few of these people have been apprehended. I do not know what the real solution to the problem is. I do not know whether this legislation will be of any great value internationally, because up to date, as I said earlier, we have not had the strain of a hijacking. None of our aircraft have been involved in it as Australian carriers. We are very fortunate in this, and let us hope that it continues in this way. 
However, I feel that there are probably a number of things that could help to overcome this problem. For example, a young fellow who hijacked an aircraft to get out of Poland late last week held a hand grenade at the head of the pilot and said: "You either take me to Copenhagen or you will go to other places.' Greater freedom of movement between countries may have the effect of minimising hijacking. Those people who are dissatisfied with living conditions in the United States at least should be allowed to leave the country and . return to Cuba. This could also be said about the Pole, and about people living in East Germany or Czechoslovakia. Al] of these people wanted to get out of the country. I know that it is difficult to get out of some countries. It is much more difficult to get out than it is to get in. But I feel that the freer movement of people between countries is one of the methods that should be looked at on an international level. If a person does not want to live in a country, why should he be compelled to stay there? If he wants to get out, the Government of the day should release him. I know it is easy to say that when we live in this country where movement is quite free. In other countries this does not apply and the authorities have pretty hard ideas on it. I make this plea and express the opinion that it would eliminate at least some of the hijackings. It would not have eliminated the hijackings that took place in the Middle East in recent years when the hijackers have set out to get people. It would not have eliminated the hijacking of the British aircraft on which Tshombe was a passenger. The hijackers were out to get that person and they got him. But at least where people want to move from one country to another they should be allowed to do so. Barriers or prohibitions should not be placed on their movement. 
As far as dealing with hijackers is concerned, I think that the Communist and Fascist countries have the same problems. If honourable members read the paper that I tabled earlier they will find that Portugal and Spain, which are Fascist countries in my opinion, have had the problem of aircraft being hijacked. The Fascist countries, the Communist countries, and the Western powers all have the problem of hijacking. They have to get together. I know the Convention makes provision for it. I know that the International Civil Aviation Organisation at the Buenos Aires Conference in 1968 made recommendations in relation to the deportation of people. I think the authorities have to get together on this and make sure that when a hijacker takes an aircraft into a country the same situation does not- apply as applied to aircraft taken to Sweden or the aircraft which was hijacked last week and taken to Copenhagen. In those cases the persons concerned were dealt with by the court in that country. There is only one way to settle it and that is to send the hijackers back to the country from which they came. Then they will know that when they hijack an aircraft they will not get away. When they land the aircraft in some place they will be deported back to the country from which they came. T think this will eliminate some of the hijacking that occurs when people do not want to live in a country. If they want to leave they should be allowed to leave. I know that has problems too. That is airy-fairy and it sounds good, but we know in international affairs today it is not a practical proposition. But at least it is a practical proposition for the various countries to get together and say: Any hijacker who lands in our country will immediately be deported to the country from which he came.' They should be able to get some agreement on that. 
The International Federation of Airline pilots and its various branches - the American Airlines Pilots Association, the British Airline Pilots Association and our own people here in Australia - have been talking about imposing an embargo on flying aircraft to any country which does not penalise a hijacker. To my way of thinking this is certainly outside international law. They "are taking the law into their own hands. But to me it is common sense. If ah aircraft is being flown from one country to another that is not prepared to observe the terms and principles of the Tokyo Convention and to penalise those people who hijack aircraft, I agree that the International Federation of Airline Pilots should say: That country is out. We will not fly any aircraft into that country until such times as it adopts the principles of the Tokyo Convention and is prepared to penalise hijackers.' I know that is taking the law into your own hands, but I think it is possibly one of the most effective ways of dealing with those people who want to hijack aircraft just for the sake of getting away from a particular place. 
There is a lot of talk in airline circles today of X-raying passengers, their luggage and the cargo. I think we have to realise what is involved because of the numbers of people who are travelling today. Just imagine the number of airports throughout the world today which deal wilh internal services. Australia is an island continent and all of our aircraft operating internally are controlled completely here. When we consider that flying from .one country to another in Europe is just like Hying from Sydney to Melbourne or Sydney to Brisbane, we have to try to appreciate the difficulties of these countries. It would be a mammoth task to introduce equipment that will X- ray the passengers, their luggage and the cargo which is going on board an aircraft to try to find whether they are carrying any bombs or whether they have any firearms in their possession. All that could be done is to try to get a line on the people who have troubles and investigate them. This in itself is a mammoth task. 1 think the Australian Post Office has made a practical approach to this problem in relation to mail sent to Israel, i understand that if a person wants to send a parcel to Israel he has to deliver it to the Post Office in an unwrapped or an open condition. The officer accepting the parcel examines it and says: 'Yes, that is all right. There are no bombs in this. There are no firearms. There is no risk of you blowing up an aircraft.' Possibly that is one way of countering the destruction of aircraft. I would not like to estimate the cost, first of all, of installing X-ray equipment at every international airport and, secondly, of operating it. To me it is a mammoth task, lt all comes back to the countries themselves getting together. I think there should be greater co-operation between the various countries. Countries may have different political ideologies but they should come together and work together to try to solve this problem which is not confined to any one country. Whilst America has the greatest number of aircraft hijackings a number of other countires experience the same problem. 
The Opposition supports this measure. 1 personally question whether it will achieve anything of any great moment but at least it is an attempt by countries that are troubled by and have a major problem with the hijacking of aircraft to meet the situation. We are prepared to have Australia sign the Convention, even though it is a belated signature, it having taken the Government almost 7 years to decide to ratify the Convention. We support it because we think it is a step in the right direction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is he able to supply particulars of the salaries and conditions applying to (a) pilots and (b) flight engineers flying (i) Boeing 727 (ii) DC9 and (iii) Boeing 707 aircraft in (A) Australia, (B) the United States of America, (C) the United Kingdom, (D) West Germany and (E) Sweden. 
by leave - I join with the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, in expressing my appreciation to the representatives of the various Government departments who were most helpful and co-operative in the work of the Committee. I also express appreciation to him - the honourable member could not do it himself - for the manner in which he, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  have worked. It has been a difficult matter to sort out and they have done a good job on it. There are a couple of points in the report to which I would like to refer. All except one of the recommendations were unanimous and I was odd man out on one with which I will deal in a moment or two. I hope that the Department will take due heed of recommendations 11 and 12 on page 2 of the report. Recommendation 1 1 is as follows: at Sydney during the hours of curfew (11 p.m. to 6 a.m.) movements be confined to operations over Botany Bay except in cases of emergency. 
I asked a question recently about the number of movements out of Sydney during curfew hours. When I spoke during the the adjournment debate on the subject I expressed the opinion that normal flights being held up as a result of inclement weather or unserviceability of aircraft could be accepted as one of the facts of life. Unfortunately people delayed in those circumstances have to be carried at that time of the night. We did find from the answer to the question I asked that some 170-odd movements out of Sydney were scheduled flights. 
Yes. I thank the honourable member for his assistance. The movements were jet movements. There were turbo prop and piston engine movements other than the movements I have spoken about. These were all scheduled flights that were permitted at holiday time. I said that in my opinion Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia have insufficient aircraft to meet the requirements of the travelling public today and that the departments, the Government, and these 2 airlines should do something about rectifying the matter. We who travel all the time find consistently that when we go to an airport to catch a plane at a particular time it is held up because a plane - not the plane serving the ports to which we wish to travel - could not get out of some other port because of weather or unserviceability. There is clear evidence that these 2 airlines are completely undermanned and have insufficient aircraft. If they are not prepared to get sufficient aircraft to meet their requirements I do not think people should be unnecessarily disturbed in the hours of sleep between 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. The airlines will have to make do with what they have if they are not prepared to buy more aircraft. 1 would also like to draw attention to recommendation 12. lt should be borne in mind that strong pressure is being exerted to lift the curfew in certain places, such as at Tullamarine Airport. Once a start is made to break down the curfew in 1 place extreme pressure is imposed for other places to keep up with the Joneses. This is imposing great pressure on other airports to follow the lead in lifting the curfew. The fact that Perth has no curfew is unfortunate for the people who live there. There are a considerable number of people living adjacent to the airport who would welcome a curfew at Perth. All I can say to those people who are conducting the campaign at the moment to lift the curfew at Tullamarine - some people say there is no curfew there at this stage - is that I think there should be a curfew and I am clear and frank about it. The airlines can work between 6 a.m. and 1 1 p.m. and that should be sufficient for most people who want to travel. All the airlines are worrying about is being able to carry freight in the main in that time. Let them find airports that are completely isolated.  have been saying for some time in this place that it is time the Department of Civil Aviation came up with some recommendations on the construction of new airports so that they will not cause any inconvenience or nuisance to people. Tullamarine in its initial planning stages probably met this requirement to a very limited degree but unfortunately since the site was selected the Department of Civil Aviation has tried to do it on the cheap. Instead of buying sufficient land and saying: This will remain rural land', people have been allowed to encroach almost onto the boundaries of Tullamarine. The mistake has been made and if the airlines want to operate passenger or freight services at night the airports should be kept sufficiently away from residential development. They can do what they like as long as they do not disturb anyone. 
All recommendations but one were carried unanimously and that was No. 16. I was the odd man out there. I give credit to my friend, the honourable member for St George, for being able to convince the Committee that he was right in suggesting that the angle of approach to Sydney airport should be increased from 2.76 degrees to 3 degrees. I give him full marks for convincing the Committee that this should bc permitted. It is only at those airports throughout the world where there is a problem with the approach path that an angle greater than 2.76 degrees is permitted. The angle of approach at some of the major airports is below 2.75 degrees. I will cite some of them. At Athens the angle of approach is 2.75 degrees; at Auckland in New Zealand it is 2.5 degrees; Bangkok, 2.5 degrees; Christchurch. NZ. 2.5 degrees; Djakarta 2.6 degrees; Frankfurt 2.7 degrees; and at Kuala Lumpur it is 2.9 degrees. Originally it was 3.3 degrees at Kuala Lumpur but when pressure was put on it was reduced to 2.9 degrees. At Kennedy Airport in New York it is 2.63 degrees. At Orly in Paris it is 2.75 degrees. 
I could cite a few others. At the same time I admit that at Amsterdam it is 3 degrees. In the United Kingdom the authorities appear to hive introduced a more or less universal system with an angle of approach of 3 degrees. I do nol know the reason for it because at Heathrow. which, as honourable members who have bren to the United Kingdom know, is the major airport there is no approach pattern problem. Aircraft could come in easily at 2.75 degrees or 2.5 degrees. They have no hills to contend with such as they have at Bombay where the approach path is 3.3 degrees. The authorities there had to spend a considerable amount of money to remove the tops of some of the hills. 
I appreciate the problem of the honourable member for St George, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and my mate the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  but I also appreciate the problem for the pilots. One has to appreciate that increasing the angle of approach from 2.75 degrees to 3 degrees represents a rate of sink for aircraft of between 80 feet and 100 feet per minute. I am concerned about the safety of people in aircraft. I appreciate the problems of people who live near airports but I have been assured by people in a position to know that the reduction in noise will be so infinitesimal that it will not matter. It will have no effect on those people. Admittedly, at certain points beneath the approach to the east-west runway at Kingsford-Smith Airport there will be a psychological effect. People will not have the impression that they can touch the aircraft by putting up their hand. At least the aircraft will be another 80 feet or 100 feet higher. There will be a psychological effect but there will be no marked reduction in the noise level. 
I understand that the internal and external airlines have no strong objection about the decision to increase the angle of approach to 3 degrees. However if people get the idea of trying to increase it beyond 3 degrees there could be very strong objections from the operators on technical grounds. 1 do not know the reaction of the pilots but the airline operators do not want it increased beyond 3 degrees. If the recommendations of the Committee are adopted then the angle of approach has been taken to the maximum. Admittedly there are airports in the world with greater angles of approach but the circumstances there are different to those in Australia. 
In my opinion there is only one real answer to the noise problem at Mascot, Adelaide and Brisbane. Probably, as a member of the Committee, I should not prejudge the matter but from the evidence already presented to the Committee I am firmly of the opinion that there is only 1 solution for those 3 airports. Probably, to a lesser degree, it is the same at Perth. The only solution is that alternative sites must be selected immediately and not in 3 err 4 years time. This is the only way in which positive practical relief can be given to the people who have a hell of a problem to put up with, particularly at Mascot. The Department of Civil Aviation should be making this decision. The Opposition, as honourable members are aware, wanted to increase the Committee's terms of reference so that it could come up with a recommendation. The Committee could do the job. There are a lot of experienced men on the Committee and they have been inquiring into these problems. However, instead, the matter is in the hands of the Department. We know how often government departments shelve things and keep them out of sight until such time as the Government finally makes a decision, whether favourable or unfavourable. As the position stands at the moment it is my humble opinion that the only solution for the people of Sydney is to get Mascot out of the way. 
1 thank the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  for tabling that report. We knew that he had it and would be making its contents known at some point in lbc debate. I thought it would be appropriate for him to do so at this stage so that honourable members who wished to speak on the Bill would have this information in their possession. The Bill before the House is an amendment to the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act. which was introduced in 1967 and amended in 1.968. This legislation implemented the recommendations of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference - probably better known as the Woodward Committee - which was set up by  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies in October 1965, when he was Prime Minister. At that time there was great industrial turmoil on the waterfront. The Waterside Workers Federation and the Federal Government were almost in a head on conflict. Stoppages were the order of the day. In all, the state was reached where work was almost impossible. The waterfront had come to an almost permanent halt, and something had to be done. 
As a result of conferences between the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government at that dme it was finally resolved that the Conference should be appointed.  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C. was appointed by the Government as the  Chairman.  The Conference was made up of representatives of the Association of Employers of Waterfront Labour, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and the Department of Labour and National Service. The Conference mct and deliberated for a considerable time. Finally it submitted a report to the Minister on 13th April 1967. The legislation was introduced in this place on 31st October 1967. With very limited time to study the legislation, the Opposition was required, some 26 or 28 hours later, on 1st November to debate it. lt must be obvious from that very brief summary that I have given of what took place that the legislation on that occasion was hastily thrown together, In 1968 a further amendment was introduced to overcome some of the technical and administrative problems which had not been foreseen on thai occasion. In the Bill before the House at present not only is a change proposed in the general constitution of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority but also an attempt is made to cure some of the problems associated with administration. 
The Bill (hat we are now asked to debate provides for the continuation of permanent employment in the stevedoring industry for an additional 2 years from 1st July 1970 until 30th June 1972. The Bill amends the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority from a 3-man authority io a l-man authority; that is, from a chairman and 2 member's to  a  director, lt also provides the necessary machinery to establish that position. The Bill grants statutory backing to the National Stevedoring Industry Conference by reconstituting it as the Stevedoring Industry Council. As 1 said a moment ago, the Bill also corrects some of the administrative anomalies that have crept into the legislation. The Opposition supports the legislation but feels that rather than having the Director as the sole member of the authority it should consist of a 3- man directorate, not necessarily as it is at the moment with 3 full time, permanent members, but with a permanent director and 2 part time directors. One should be from the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, and one from the Waterside Workers Federation. Representatives of those 2 organisations could work with the Director, assisting him and advising him on the functions and operations of the Authority. 
The Opposition feels that, with the setting up of the Stevedoring Industry Council, this tripartite principle could be transferred into the operations of the directorship of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. That principle has worked for some considerable time with a chairman and 2 members. Why not retain it but change it to a level where it contains direct representatives of the employer and employee authorities that I have just referred to? We feel that the legislation should have been introduced much earlier. People in the industry have been greatly concerned about what is going to happen to them and their permanent employment. We do not feel that there is any risk of the Government not proceeding with its policy of permanent employment on the waterfront. The general feeling is that the egg has been scrambled and there is not much risk of its being put back together again. 
The legislation having been introduced here in 1967, the Government has had 2 years to determine what it is going to do with it, what its policy is going to be, whether it is going to continue its policy of permanent employment and how it is going to continue with it. Yet at this late hour, with a matter of just a few more weeks to go until the expiry of the existing legislation which terminates on 30th June, we have this Bill brought to us on the basis that it is another piece of temporary legislation for another 2 years. 
I refer to the matter of permanent employment of waterfront labour at ports throughout Australia. I understand that Whyalla is to be granted a system of permanent employment in the very near future and that discussions are taking place at Darwin in regard to this matter. Permanent employment should have been granted to Townsville, Hobart, Burnie and Bundaberg in the last 2 years because they are ready for it. The waterside workers and the employers both want it and therefore it should be proceeded with as early as possible. The Department of Labour and National Service has been a little lax in not having brought this legislation down and had decisions made about the introduction of permanent employment. The stoppages on the waterfront that have occurred in recent months can be explained and justified. The introduction of permanent employment and the establishing of the Stevedoring Industry Council are commendable. The Opposition supports the scheme. It will bring about some degree of stability to the waterfront industry which has been a most turbulent one. History shows that there have always been strikes and trouble on the waterfront. The proposed scheme can bring about some degree of permanency of employment and stability for the men and for the industry. 
The setting up of the Stevedoring Industry Council is an excellent idea. It creates direct participation for the industry. The employer representatives and the union representatives at the highest level of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Waterside Workers Federation will meet regularly to discuss the problems. Previously if a dispute arose ofttimes the men went on strike. The employer would not talk to them and the tribunal would not talk to them because they were on strike. Strikes were imminent. They were certain to take place on certain days. Now we have an organisation which is able to meet, to call the parties together and overcome the problems that are in existence. I should like to see the Stevedoring Industry Council or the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority examine, or, if need be, some separate organisation created to examine and investigate the whole ramifications of the waterfront today, not only on the basis of employment but also on the basis of the organisation of the industry, the provision of machinery, the organising of ports and the development of ports. At the present time in Australia 44 different port authorities conduct their affairs on the basis of the development, construction and provision of wharfage and all the other matters. I should like to see a number of these authorities eliminated or a central authority, such as the Stevedoring Industry Council, created by the Government to do this job. 
In the United States of America there is a New York Port Authority in which 2 States are involved. They were unable to operate individually so they drew up legislation to establish the authority. People talk about the United States as being the great land of free enterprise. Here is a Socialist organisation if ever there was one, the New York Port Authority which conducts all the shipping operations in New York. That Authority conducts airports such as Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark. It is examining the development of Triborough This is all being carried out by a Stateowned instrumentality and if necessary the facilities arc leased out to other people to operate. At Kennedy airport the Authority owns all the facilities. It either makes the land available or constructs the terminals and then leases them out. The same thing applies to the shipping port section; the Authority owns the facilities, builds them and, where necessary, leases them. This is what we should be looking at here in Australia. 
At Tokyo, Kobe. Rotterdam - which is the largest port in the world - and even London, the facilities are either State-owned or are owned by a city council and are operated by government authorities charged with the responsibility of developing the ports. Instead of dealing with employment, wages and so on, the Commonwealth Government should be moving into a much broader field of the stevedoring industry. One can pick up newspapers at different times and find references to the inefficiency of and the poor conditions that prevail in Australian ports. An article in the 'Daily Mirror' of 5th May 1970 states: 
New South Wales ports inadequate for future. 
Port facilities in New South Wales have no hope of roping with cargoes of the future unless they are given far more shore space. 
This conclusion was reached today by delegates of the Captain Cook Bi centenary symposium in Sidney. 
Here is another example: 
Dock congestion causing eight hours delay. 
A leading Sydney exporter is complaining that trucks delivering cargo for New Guinea-bound ships are often delayed up to eight hours because of traffic congestion to the wharves. 
The exporter is one of a growing list of shippers and ship  owners  to complain that inadequate facilities in the Port of Sydney are becoming an increasing problem. 
Another example is to be found in the Australian Financial Review' of 24th March, when the  president  of the Australian Road Transport Federation said: 
The scandalous  ranks  of  trucks  which form up outside Sydney wharves  are a blot  on the largest ami busiest port in the Commonwealth.  1 do not wan; to develop this point any further. 1 think I have made the point sufficiently thai ports in Australia are in a bad state. They are not as efficient as they should be. There should be some central organisation with finances available to develop them. After all, the Commonwealth' Government controls the finances of this country and it is in a position to make money available. We should be planning and developing ports throughout this nation. I do not wish to attack one authority as against another but I know of one case where within 20 miles 2 Slates, possibly on the basis of parish pump politics, are developing ' 2 deep sea ports. That is just a waste of national resources. We should have a co-ordinating authority to deal with such matters. 
As to transport facilities, too often the States through their railway systems are channelling freight back to their own capital cities when it would be much cheaper and much easier to direct it to the capital city or an export port of an adjoining State. There is a great need to have coordination through a central transport planning authority. Another feature which concerns the Opposition is the revolution (hat has taken place in the carriage of freight. An enormous change has taken place as a result of the introduction of containerisation, roll-on roll-off types of ships, stern loaders, side loaders, the Scandia type of ships, and unit loading. Containerisation has superseded the conventional type of ships with great holds and in some isolated cases shore cranes. We now have ships with cranes and the handling gear for the movement of cargo from ship to shore or from shore to ship. This revolution has had a widespread effect on the waterfront today. 
Only (his week the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  announced that the population of Australia has now passed the 121 million mark. Whilst Australia's volume of imports and exports is continuing to increase we find that the work force on the waterfront has dropped from 22,744 in 1964-65 to 18,040 in 1968-69, which is the latest year for which figures are available. During the last 5 years 4,704 men have left this industry. Some investigation should be undertaken by the Department of Labour and National Service or some other responsible body associated with the industry to find out just what is happening. Is the introduction of containers in the best interests of Australia's economy? Does containerisation represent economy? Does it represent a burden being imposed on one section of the community? 
With the possible exception of Fremantle, Sydney and Melbourne, all the ports of Australia are facing some problem as a result of the introduction of the types of ships I have referred to. An urgency motion was moved in this House and in the Senate by honourable members and senators concerned with the welfare of the people of Tasmania. That motion complained of insufficient shipping facilities for Tasmania and also increased freight charges. The Port of Newcastle has its own problems. The waterfront unions are continually meeting to discuss problems within the industry. Employers, through the Chamber of Commerce Shipping Committee, are continually meeting in the endeavour to solve problems created by the introduction of containerisation and similar types of shipping. The same can be said about the Port of Albany in Western Australia, Portland, Adelaide, Brisbane and all other ou '-ports. 
Before the introduction of containerisation these ports had a regular flow of ships which picked up particular cargoes. This applies particularly to Portland and Albany where for many years conventional ships called to pick up wool and at the same time loaded and discharged general cargo. Now, as a result of containerisation, the wool is being shipped in containers to the central port which in Western Australia is Fremantle, in New South Wales is Sydney, and in Victoria it is Melbourne. The result has been that ships which previously called at these out-ports to pick up wool now have to collect the wool at the central port and do not collect or discharge general cargo at the outport. This in itself is having a serious effect on labour. The frequency of visits by ships has been reduced. Previously in some ports there may have been a weekly, a monthly or a 3-monthly visit by ships of a particular line to pick up certain commodities. Monthly visits have now become 3-monthly or 4-monthly visits. As a result people who export particular goods have had to find a means of stowing those goods and of transporting them to the buyer, which invariably means that the cargo has to be sent from the port where it was previously shipped back to the central port or to one of the three which I have referred to - Fremantle, Melbourne or Sydney. 
This problem should be examined by a government department, whether it be the Department of Labour and National Service, the Department of Shipping and Transport or the Department of Trade and Industry. The problem is growing day by day because of the effects that it is having on industry. I know that industries in Newcastle in my electorate are greatly inconvenienced, particularly in the shipment of mineral sands, phosphate and the like. Whereas they had a regular calling of ships on a set timetable, they now have to ship through Sydney. 
Even organisations like the Newcastle Branch of Aid-Retarded Persons New South Wales are affected by containerisation. The Newcastle Branch of this body has built up a connection with an importer in Malaysia and regularly ships large quantities of paper to Malaysia. From this the organisation receives considerable revenue and it provides employment for people who need specialised type of employment. The branch rang me recently to tell me that it had so much paper it did not know where to put it. Its officers could hardly move in its establishment which was so stacked with paper. The organisation could not get a ship to call to take the paper away. Although only a small amount of profit is involved, the collection and export of this paper provides employment. However, the organisation cannot afford the cost of shipping the paper to Sydney for export to Malaysia. This is another of the problems that has arisen as a result of the changeover from conventional type shipping to containerisation. 
In the last report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority reference is made to the amount of time lost by men in the industry. I address my remarks to the number of cases in which hours have been lost not as a result of the employees' actions but as a result of delays occasioned by employers, invariably the shipowners. In many cases hours have been lost because gear for handling cargo has not conformed with the Navigation (Loading and Unloading - Safety Measures) Regulations. This is the responsibility of the employers of waterfront labour and the shipowners. In 1964-65 there were 148 cases resulting in a loss of 14,494 hours; in 1965-66 there were 108 cases involving 13,530 man hours lost; in 1966-67 a total of 14,425 man hours were lost; in 1967-68 there were 140 cases with 17,526 hours lost; and in 1968-69, which was the worst year, there were 243 cases costing 22.446 hours. Thus in the last 5 years, because of employer negligence, 82,421 man hours have been lost. 
When the. Stevedoring Industry Authority is critical of the trade union movement for taking strike action I feel that it should also try to rectify the situation to which I have just referred. All of the stoppages could have been avoided if management, employers of labour and shipowners had been prepared to rectify the things about which the men went on strike. Let me instance some of the faulty gear involved in 1968-69. There were 45 cases of defective winches and/or cranes involving the loss of 2,990 man hours; there were 27 cases of defective ships gangways and 1 ,264 hours were lost: defective cargo runner splices  -  22 cases and 3,081 hours lost; and defective hold ladders  -  1 1 cases and 324 hours lost. There is no justification for ladders in ships holds being defective. There is no justification for gangways being defective or for winches and cranes being defective. There were 85 cases of unmarked or defective items of cargo gear, and these involved 1 1 ,560 hours tost. These are all items that should have been rectified by the shipowners or by employers of waterfront labour. If they had been reclined it would have eliminated one of the features of waterfront employment that needle men in the industry or. for that matter, in any industry. Men do not want to work under unsafe conditions and frequently they have to take the action of stopping work to get these defects remedied. 
Prior to the commencement of this debate the Minister made a statement during which he said: 
There will be no retrenchment of the ASIA staff within the next 12 months except in those ports in which permanent employment is introduced in that period. 
We accept the position that when permanency is introduced into a port there are problems associated with it, but if it is adequately planned in advance and men are acquainted with what their position will be many of the problems associated with redundancy can be overcome. However there seems to be a contradiction in that statement when it is compared with the roneod copy of the Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
True, further potts may become permanent ports over the next 2 years, but this is simply in accordance with the intention and authority of the Temporary Provisions Act introduced in 1.967. Thus, 1 do not anticipate that the enactment of this legislation will have any direct effect on the employment position of ASIA staff. 
I ask honourable members to note that in that quote he referred to 2 years, yet in his statement 12 months was mentioned. Later in his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Over the next 2 years the Government will be giving detailed consideration to what the permanent role of a statutory authority in this industry should be. 
Again he mentions 2 years. Later, he said: 
However, I reiterate once again that there should be no cause for concern about redundancy on a major scale within the next 2 years. 
wonder whether the Minister has become confused. I hope that I am not. In a document drawn up after an agreement with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Federated Clerks Union he spoke of a period of 12 months. He gave an assurance of 12 months continuity of employment. Yet in his second reading speech he has referred all the way through to 2 years. I repeal the final' quote from his speech: 
Hovever, I reiterate once again that there should be no cause for concern about redundancy on a major SCale within the next 2 years. 
I hope that there will be no redundancy in 
3 or 4 years. The Government should bc prepared to give some consideration to my suggestions which I know have the support of the industry and the support of my Party. The Opposition believes that the Austraiian Stevedoring Industry Authority should be extending its activities to encompass those matters to which I have referred. If need be, a complete stevedoring unit could be set up to carry out the work of stevedoring and, most importantly, it could work with the States or with authorities in the States in developing ports. After all it is through ports that Australian imports and exports are transported. If we do not have first class ports that are comparable in efficiency with overseas ports obviously we are placing an additional financial burden on our trade which makes it more difficult for our exporters to compete on the world market. 
The Opposition supports the legislation. The provision relating to the Stevedoring Industry Council is an improvement, lt will put on a permanent basis something that has been temporary. People in the industry were not sure whether it was going to continue or what its function would be in the future. Now that it has been put on a permanent basis we hope that when the new legislation is brought down within the next 2 years everyone in the industry will know where they are going, particularly those people in the Federated Clerks Union who at present are greatly concerned about their future. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt) [3.91-1 support the Bill and in so doing want to trace somewhat briefly the history of the trade union movement in respect of the waterfront. Originally the waterfront unions came into being because of the imposition of shocking conditions in The Rocks area of Sydney in the 1870s, 1880s and 1890s when waterfront employees were a disorganised force of people who were traded upon by independent shipowners and were subjected to the most frightful conditions imaginable, as were their counterparts of that day in the United Kingdom. One of the founders was a person who became Prime Minister of this country. This man, who had led the Labor Party, apparently forgot later the very sound principles that he had learnt in his early years and became the Prime Minister of Australia as leader of another Party. 
Organised labour commenced from that point of time. The union has indeed been, in the eyes of our political opponents, an extremely boisterous and militant union, because the people now on the Government benches have never endeavoured to understand the waterfront industry and its problems. They have never endeavoured to understand the system, if one may refer to it as such, of exploitation by those of greed of those who were expecting a fair share of what they were entitled to for their work and because of the conditions under which they worked and a whole host of other things. The industry during the course of the mid- 1920s or late 1920s was lorn asunder by industrial strife when one union was set against another. During the depression years one of the most shocking systems of engaging labour in this country or any other country - at least by western standards - was introduced. It was one of the most shocking systems ever imposed on the waterfront industry. This was the bull system of picking up labour. Under this system men were given favours by bosses because they were prepared to settle a bar score for the bosses or were prepared perhaps to pay other bills that the bosses would run up generally in waterfront business houses. This is a system that can indeed only be described as shocking. 
Where then did human dignity manifest itself? How far can one push a human being and expect him not to realise that he is a human being? During the course of the late 1930s men throughout Australia who had been subjected to these intolerable conditions realised that they had little to lose by taking the form of action that they did take in the late 1 930s and early 1 940s. They demanded such things as a rosier system that had as its purpose the taking away from the bosses, the foremen and the bulls of the industry the right to he rc-employ-sd day after day whereas their fellows in the industry were getting no monetary return whatsoever. What was wrong with the very fine principle that the amount of work available in the industry should be shared by all in the industry? Under the bull system 15% got everything that was going and all the monetary  it-turn,  and everyone else had to share absolute and utter poverty. From this state of affairs grew the combined action of union men who expressed themselves in a very militant fashion. This was brought about, of course, by the conditions under which they were expected to slave. They came up against the system of the masters, the absentee employers, the shipowners, the shipowners' agents, the stevedoring companies, the shipowners' imported supervisors and all these other attendant difficulties.. Of course, as soon as the union saw that the labour position in the late 1930s and into the 1940s was such that they were in a better posi-lion industrially, is it any wonder that it resorted to the type of action that it was forced into in a desire to win conditions of no less value than those in industry generally? There were . many bitter fights in regard to these matters. 
During the early 1940s, after the Treasury bench here was vacated by the political opponents of the trade union movement generally, the Stevedoring Industry Commission was set up. There was provision on the Commission for what one would like to be able to regard as being equal representation. There was representation for the employers, which gave the shipowner representation because of his right to appoint those representatives who were managers of stevedoring companies and the like. Also there were representatives of the trade union movement - namely of the Waterside Workers Federation. While one does not dispute that there were disputes during the war years - and much criticism flowed to the organisation because it took strike action - at least I was one who was in the field and realised the union's position. I did not in any way criticise it for the form of action it was forced to take to ensure that its members would not return to a form of the treatment after the cessation of hostilities that had been imposed on them for many scores of years. However, there were many conditions that the union saw fit to act against, such as men working around the clock continuously - working on the job for scores of hours, almost, at a time. The union saw fit to introduce a shift system into the industry. Was there anything wrong with this? Everyone else in industry had these conditions. But the conditions could not be obtained without head on clashes with management and the like. 
After the war years the union had to resort to very strong and firm militant action to win the condition that workers in the industry were not required to stay on the job, not just for 24 hours but for something like double and more. Of course, this led to industrial disputation. There was some difference of opinion between the government of the day and the union about the Stevedoring Industry Commission which led to the removal of the 2 representatives of the Federation. Later the Australian Stevedoring Industry Board was set up, and representation was denied to the Federation. This laid the foundation for many a bitter struggle that ensued over the years and continued to make itself felt within the industry right up to 1965. During this, period the Federation was engaged in some struggles about conditions that other unionists had enjoyed and, of course, which some unionists had not enjoyed. This placed the Federation, very proudly, in the forefront as a condition winner for a number of organisations, a role which it still continues to play very admirably on behalf of the whole trade union movement. The Federation ought to be commended for adopting that line. I hope and trust that the union will continue to do that. 
I would, of course, deplore that in this day and age the union would have to continue to resort to industrial action to achieve those worthwhile gains - worthwhile in the eyes of its membership and the eyes of the leaders of the trade union movement who represent that membership. The industry wanted such things as annual leave, payment for sick leave and payment for public holidays. But the union was not able to achieve these simple conditions that had prevailed for many years in other industries throughout the Commonwealth. Any case put forward by anyone in the industry, be it the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, which was set up in about 1956, the employer organisations, or any direct representation by the Federation through the Australian Council of Trade Unions which is the recognised head of the trade union movement - and these bodies met consistently - was not acceded to. The requests of the trade unions were not accepted on such matters as the simple conditions of annual leave, public holidays, guaranteed shifts. As a result, unsettled conditions started to manifest themselves. Pensions were mentioned many, many years ago also. Pension rights were not achieved for some considerable time after. 
Let me continue along in this speech, as it were, to what happened in 1965. Continual disputes occurred throughout the industry. We in the Australian Waterside Workers Federation were accused by almost all Government members of being led by Communists. We were anarchists and all sorts of violent, frightful things. Many legislative measures moved against the trade union movement in this chamber by the Government were directed against the Federation in the stupid and forlorn hope - the Government was misguided then; I hope that it does not continue to be misguided in the future - that such measures in fact would overcome the problems of an industry fraught with problems. 
The Government, the Department of Labour and National Service and the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority were never prepared really to examine the industry at its grass roots. Many a committee was set up. One such committee was the Bastin Committee which delivered a report on permanency and other provisions for the industry. The Government shelved that report. It looked at it occasionally, ft was not prepared to do anything constructive about the recommendations in that report. Bastin finished up disgusted no doubt because, despite his efforts, the Government took no action with respect to some of the grass roots problems associated with an important industry in the transport field to which he drew its attention. 
In the early 1960s, the Government commenced a vicious campaign. This was done with the Austraiian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Before I proceed to deal with that, I draw to the attention of the House a matter that 1 did not intend to mention. In that time, 2 strikes took place. One was held in 1954 and lasted for 2 weeks; the other, held in 1956, continued for approximately the same time. Each of these strikes would have been avoided if some proper and clear understanding had existed, in the first instance, on the claims made regarding margins and, in the second instance, on the right to recruit. Neither of these 2 long drawn out strikes in which the workers struggled on for 3 weeks would have been necessary if commonsense had prevailed and the employers, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, and the Government ministers of the day had been prepared to sit down, realise the merits of the claims and consider them on a proper basis. 
I come lo the 1960s When the Waterside Workers Federation and the trade union movement on the waterfront were attacked viciously on disciplinary measures. Breaches or alleged breaches by nien, including foremen and supervisors, in the main capital city ports, were reported. These men were marched up before the Authority and were suspended for 1 day, 2 days, 4 days, or even up to 3 weeks. Naturally, their fellow workers were incensed by such vicious injustice. No right of appeal of any type was available to any tribunal or inquiry. No rights of appeal, in the real sense of the term, existed. The burden of proof was with the individuals concerned, the trade union organisations and in every direction other than those who were intent on this stupid idea that they would destroy the militant action of waterside workers and would deny to them their rights to set about winning further conditions for themselves, by application of this most vicious system of discipline. 
A system known on the waterfront as the hostage system' was introduced. This was one of the most vicious schemes ever introduced industrially in this Commonwealth. Let me illustrate what happened. If you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I were suspended and our mates went out on strike in support ot us. the Authority would say: 'Well, you are suspended for a normal working day*. In 2 ports in Australia, sonic 5,000 or 6.000 members - a paltry number of men - could be out on strike because of some intolerable condition of employment that affected you and me. A waterside worker who was at home on that occasion unable to work would be informed that he had been suspended for that day or for the period of the stoppage. To the suspension for 1 day might be added another day's suspension, and so on and so on. With measures such as these being imposed upon workers in the industry, how could the Government and others concerned hope to achieve industrial peace in this field in Australia? These people were proud and glad to call themselves Australians. 
In 1965 a most vicious piece of legislation was introduced into this House by the then Minister for Labour and National Service, the present Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  That legislation was introduced in the forlorn hope that it would cure once again the ills of the waterfront industry. I sat in the Opposition gallery in this chamber as I see people sitting in it this afternoon. I found it almost impossible to restrain myself as I listened to the then Minister for Labour and National Service deliver his second reading speech. My feelings at that time were the same as they are at this moment as I consider this legislation. Casting my mind back, I remember that my feelings were those of absolute disgust to think that there were people who purported to have any common sense at all and who were endeavouring to introduce a measure of that type in the hope that it would cure industrial ills and bring about industrial peace. I was filled with a feeling of disgust that they were born in the same country as I. 
That legislation provided for and sought to aid and abet any small number of men in ports like Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane and Hobart who to gather together and to form themselves into a trade union organisation correctly regarded as a scab organisation. That organisation was given the blessing of the Minister of the day and the Government of the day in order to pit the loyalties of one man against another man and to aid and abet as well as to encourage it. That was the thinking of members of the Government some of whom, unfortunately, are still here. They thought that they could overcome such industrial unrest by that type of legislation. 
This belief is shown in all these Hansards that I have before me on my desk. It would take me a considerable time to refer to each passage and to read it. The Communist element is mentioned God knows how many times. The present Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  won his way into this House by witch hunting on the waterfront. This won him a position on the ministerial front bench of the Government. He was successful because of his witch hunting and head hunting on the waterfront and because of the fact that he could name who were and who were not 
Communists. But, finally, he had to back off because he could not say that some 26,000 members of the trade union movement working on the waterfront are all Communists; nor could he say that all the officials in the trade union movement were Communists. At the time when he was making these allegations, I was sitting on the Federal Council of the organisation. I have sat as a member of that body since 1959. I am not going to say in this chamber what my attitude was regarding what the Minister may have thought or what he may still think. The point I want to make is the absolute stupidity of the Government of the day in thinking for a moment that it could cure the industrial ills of this industry by such action. 
What then did it do? Have honourable members opposite ever sat down to reflect on what their Government did in 1965? The effect of the action of the Government was to unite the Australian Waterside Workers Federation and its members more than ever. All members - man to man, gang to gang on the waterfront, port to port, output to mainport and mainport to capita] port - were determined that they were not going to allow that type of legislation to break their ranks. Honourable members must realise that this was just what they were able to do. 
They, in association with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, took over the role of the negotiator. The then  President  of the ACTU sought to confer with the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who at that time became more closely associated with the waterfront. He became Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports. The  President  of the ACTU was able to confer with the then Prime Minister who had this somewhat false title bestowed upon him. He was able to convince the Prime Minister that in fact the trade union movement was rallying on the basis that it would not cop this type of legislation. As a result of that legislation and unknown to the government of the day an inquiry was set up and discussions took place for some considerable time. I was engaged in some of them. Recommendations were sent to stop work meetings from time to time throughout the length and breadth of the country, progress reports of what was taking place at those conferences were presented and finally the vast majority of members of the trade union movement associated with the waterfront accepted from their leaders the concept of permanency on the waterfront, at least at capital ports in the initial stages. The Bill before us this afternoon  -  I almost said tonight' by habit - makes provision for a continuation of the permanency agreements throughout the Commonwealth. We do not oppose the Bill in any way, shape or form but permit me to say, if 1 may, if the Government, in view of the increased efficiency and throughput on the waterfront today, and having regard to the shocking mistakes of the Minister for Trade and industry  (Mr McEwen)  and the Federation in wrapping themselves up in the containerisation programme, had had enough commonsense, decency and recognition of this, it would have removed by this Bill those lousy clauses that it was so stupid to put on the statute book in .1965. lt is never too late to hope that the Government might do this but it will not be given the opportunity. The. Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  sees lit to interject at the last stage of my speech. I told him once before in this House that Attorneys-General come last so I will put him last. He and the Government he supports have been so muddled in their thinking on the various amendments - this is perhaps one of them  -  that they have put in the Stevedoring Industry Act that his Department is unable even lo interpret the rubbish that the Government has included in the Bill from time to time. He would be hard pressed to state points with clarity let alone an interpretation of the measures that they in desperation have seen fit lo put through. I wind up on the note that the Government will not be in charge of the next Bill relative to the mailer that comes down after some 2 years. The Party occupying the Opposition benches today will be the Government, lt is the only Party which recognises the industrial rights of wage and salary earners generally, and it will take care of them because it understands people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a .second time. 
In Committee 
The BUI. 
 The Opposition has concurred in the incorporation in Hansard of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  for the simple reason that honourable members are desirous of getting home. We accept that this weekend is a holiday weekend, and therefore we do not propose to be unnecessarily awkward. But I draw attention to the fact that at this late hour of the session the Parliament is being treated as a rubber stamp and new legislation is being introduced. An example is the way that this Bill, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill and Australian National Airlines Bill have been brought in. I was approached at about 4 o'clock this afternoon and asked whether I was prepared to proceed with a debate on these measures. I agreed on the pure and simple basis that if we did not proceed with the Bills this evening it could well be that we would have to wait until the August session to deal with them. In the event of there being an accident between now and then the unfortunate dependants of anyone killed or seriously injured in that accident would be entitled only to the existing damages of some $15,000. Although we hope that there will be no accidents, we want to ensure that if there is an accident a person's dependants will be entitled to the maximum rate of damages now proposed in this Bill. 
This measure provides for an amendment to the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act to increase the amount of compensation or damages from $15,000 to $30,000. In the case of loss of luggage or baggage the increase proposed is from $200 to $300, and in the case of hand luggage the proposed increase is from $20 to $30. The Opposition is not opposed to the principle of increasing these payments. Honourable members on this side of the chamber feel that because of inflation and Government policy they can agree with the Government that $15,000 today is not a reasonable amount to be paid by way of damages. Therefore we accept the proposition to increase the amount to $30,000. 
Another pleasing feature of the Bill is that in future the rights of passengers travelling on air taxi flights, charter flights and joy rides will be protected and passengers will be entitled to damages in the same way as if they were injured or killed in an accident on a licensed airline flight. This is an improvement to the legislation. It is long overdue and the Act should have been amended a considerable time ago to include this provision. I hope that the Government will introduce at an early date the proposal contained in the latter part of the speech delivered by the Attorney-General. That proposal provides for interim payments to a dependent spouse and dependent children of a passenger killed in an aircraft accident. This also is long overdue. In the event of an accident, because of the delay involved in inquiries which have to be conducted, a dependent spouse with children could be in the unfortunate position of knowing that some time in the distant future she would receive a lump sum payment of $30,000 but that in the meantime she would have difficulty in making ends meet. I know that it will be said that she would be able to apply for a widow's pension, but that is not the answer. The Government should amend the Act as early as possible to include the provisions mentioned in the second reading speech. 
The Opposition is concerned about the limit of liability. Members of the Opposition have always considered it to be a most unsatisfactory state of affairs that airline operators have been excluded from an obligation to pay unlimited damages in the event of a person being killed in an aircraft accident. The most that a dependent spouse or dependent children will be able to receive in damages will be $30,000 under this Bill. 
Why should it? 
I agree with that. Do not misunderstand me. I can assure the honourable member for Chisholm that members of the Australian Labor Party believe that there should be no limitation of liability. We have only to pick up a newspaper to read cases of people being badly maimed. It is not rare to see awards of $50,000, $60,000, $70,000 or even $100,000. Why should the insurance companies who insure people travelling in motor cars have to meet this commitment when the transport systems, whether they be rail or air, be excluded from it? There should not be any exclusion. If the court of the land says that a person has suffered a certain amount of disability why should he not be compensated? Why should the airlines and the railways be permitted to impose a maximum liability of $30,000? It is unfair, it is unjust and it should be removed. 
I was pleased to read a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 18th and 19th September 1968, question No. 585. The answer from the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Mr Swartz,  clearly establishes that the United States Government is trying to do something about this problem in a most practical manner. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition and the answer that was given. 
Civil Aviation: Carriers Liability (Question No. 585) 
Has Qantas Airways Ltd made an arrangement with the United States Government to enter into special contracts with all passengers on journeys to, from or through the United States for a limited liability of  $us75,000  inclusive of legal costs or $US58,O00 exclusive of legal costs in heu of the limited liability of $ Al 5,000 set by the Warsaw Convention as amended by the Hague Protocol? 
Has Qantas also made an arrangement to waive certain defences available under the Convention? 
When did Qantas make these arrangements? 
Has the Government considered making similar arrangements with the principal carriers operating air services to, from or through Australia? 
Has the Government considered amending the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act to substitute a similar liability in regard to air carriage within Australia? 
Has the Government consulted with the States and other nations and the airlines on this matter; if so, on what dates and with what results? 
On 15th November 1965, the United States Government served notice of denunciation of the Warsaw Convention with effect from 15th May 1966. At the same time it indicated it was willing to negotiate a new international agreement preserving the benefits of the Convention but with an increase in the limit of liability to around $US 100,000 per passenger. This high figure was considered more appropriate having regard to the income and cost structure in the United States. Several countries, including Australia, made representations to the United States pointing out the serious affects that denunciation of the Convention would have for civil aviation. After protracted -negotiations, the Government of the United States approved an interim agreement made between the international airlines operating to that country, including Qantas, and a' number of US domestic carriers, whereby the carriers agreed that the limit of liability for death or injury to passengers on  services including a point in the United States as a point of origin, destination or agreed stopping place was raised to $US75,000 including legal fees and costs, or $US58,O00 .exclusive of such fees and costs where the claim is brought in a country where costs are awarded in addition to damages. The United States then withdrew its notice of denunciation of die Warsaw Convention. 
The agreement provides that the airlines will not avail themselves of the defence, provided in Article 20 (1) of the Warsaw Convention, that they have taken all necessary measures to avoid damage or injury to passengers or that if it was possible to take such measures. 
Qantas entered into these arrangements in May 1966, and the agreement became effective on 16th May 1966. 
As a result of the action taken by the United States, the International Civil Aviation Organisation has undertaken a study of the provisions of the Warsaw Convention and Hague Protocol, including the limits of liability. Australia has taken an active part in this study and will be represented at the international conference which is expected to be arranged to consider the outcome of the ICAO study. The Government believes it would be inappropriate to alter, unilaterally, the Warsaw/Hague provisions in relation to services to, from or through Australia prior to such a conference. 
The Government is currently examining the question of amending certain provisions of the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act, including the limits of liability, insofar as they apply to domestic air services. 
No detailed consultation has yet taken place with the States on the limits of liability on domestic air services, but the State Ministers for Transport were advised of the Commonwealth's proposed review of its legislation, including the limits of liability, during the recent Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting. As mentioned above, the Government has taken part in negotiations regarding the international limits leading to the study of the matter by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. These negotiations have largely been conducted through ICAO and have taken place over a period of the last 3 years. The domestic operators were asked for their comments on proposals to amend the legislation as it affects them on 29th July 1968. No replies have yet been received. 
The answer to that question indicates that it is proposed at a meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation to submit a proposition that the limit be lifted to $100,000. That amount is fair and reasonable. If a person can go into court and establish that the loss of the breadwinner has cost them something which could be compensated for by $100,000 then we are getting nowhere near it. The Opposition is still completely opposed to any limitation, but at least the Americans are approaching the matter in a fair and reasonable manner. They are talking about a reasonable amount of compensation. 
As a result of negotiations the United States Government threatened to denounce the conditions of the Warsaw Convention unless the airline operators lifted the amount of limited liability. The denouncing of the conditions of the Convention would really put civil aviation in a turmoil. As a result of that action it is now possible for a person travelling on an American aircraft or any aircraft operating through the United States of America to have a coverage of $US58,000, or approximately $A52,000. Honourable members might bear in mind the next time they travel overseas that any person travelling with a round the world ticket on an aircraft which takes him through the United States of America is covered by the American system of liability. It is important to bear this in mind. If a person leaves Australia and travels to New Zealand, Japan, across the United States of America, to London and down through Europe and back to Australia, he is entitled to the insurance coverage which the American Government has laid down for persons travelling on aircraft operating to, from or within the United States of America. This is true. This astounds honourable members on the other side of the House but it is factual, because I have checked these facts. I am not making an idle statement. I obtained the information from the legal officer of Qantas so that I would know our position. So I can at least back up my statement. If need be, I can name the gentleman, because I made the inquiry quite openly as if I were a passenger and that is the assurance I was given. So when honourable members vote against the amendment I intend to move very shortly they must realise what the position is. 
I repeat, any person who has a round the world ticket, or a ticket to the United States of America, provided it is with one of the 60-odd airlines that have entered into this agreement with the United States - and bearing in mind that unless airlines enter into this agreement they cannot operate through America - and the journey includes a city in the United States, named on the ticket, is entitled to the coverage to which I have just referred. The amount of the limited liability is $US58,000 or. i round terms $A52,0Q0. However, if a person Mies from Australia and names his point of destination as New York and his ticket states he is flying 'Australia-New York-London-New York-Sydney' and when he arrives in London he then decides to extend his holiday and travels around Europe from London to Paris, Rome, Vienna and back to London he is not covered on that portion of his journey should anything happen. If the aircraft is in a crash and he is killed or in any way injured his dependents have no claim in respect of that section of the journey. But so long as his flying trip passes through the United States he has the coverage I am talking about. 
So when honourable members opposite vote against this amendment which I intend to move on behalf of the Opposition they should be aware of what they are doing, because at the present time our national airline, Qantas, is completely covered. It is paying these insurance premiums. That is no thanks to this Government, but thanks only to the United States Government for having imposed this condition. It is wide ranging, but the facts are there, and I challenge the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  who is at the table, to deny that what I have said is true. I hope that the information he is now getting is sufficient to convince him that what I have said is true. That is the position as far as we are concerned. Another thing which concerns me on this question of the limitation of liability is that an airline can be most negligent in the maintenance of its aircraft. I will just refer to a couple of serious accidents that have occurred in this country. Let us take the crash at Port Hedland on 31st December 1968. A subsequent inquiry clearly established that it was caused by negligence on someone's part because a bush in an important part of the structure of that aircraft was hammered into position and not put in by the normal method that would be adopted by any experienced engineer. If that is not negligence then I do not know what is. The inquiry into the Winton air disaster some years ago clearly established that it was due to negligence because a part of the engine of that aircraft had been put in the wrong way. It was put in upside down. 
I could cite a number of accidents that have occurred in Australia where it has been evident from the inquiries conducted that there was negligence as a result of which aircraft have crashed and people have lost their lives. Why should the airline operators in these cases be in the privileged position of not being required to pay maximum damages? It is quite easy to overcome this. It has been said that if any set amount is removed from the Act the dependants of a deceased passanger will have to go to a court and establish their entitlement but in this way they can get $30,000 without any trouble at all. As dependants of a deceased passenger and in view of what his income had been they are entitled to $30,000 compensation. Why should the airline operator who has committed serious breaches of the regulations be excluded? If a passenger is killed in a motor car accident it is the accepted thing in the courts today that the driver must have been negligent otherwise the accident would not have occurred. The courts determine the amount of damages to be awarded to the deceased passenger's dependant spouse or children. The same thing should apply to the airline industry. Airline operators are in ari unfair and privileged position and this privilege should be taken away from them immediately. 
I admit that as far as international operations are concerned we should wait until the next meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation takes place, which I understand. is to be in 1971, when this proposition to remove the limitation of liability can be dealt with on an international level. However, there is nothing to prevent this Government from accepting the Opposition's proposal in regard to Australia's internal airlines. The Government may, of course, say that it has already negotiated an agreement with the State Premiers. In that case there is nothing to prevent the Government from negotiating fresh agreements with the Premiers which can then be brought into this House. I do not think that any State Premier would object to something that is fair and reasonable such as removal of the limitation of liability. We on this side of the House realise what is taking place and on behalf of the Opposition 1 move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
While not opposing the passage of the Bill, the House is of opinion that the limits of liability  under International Convention are unjust and therefore requests that the Government take action to have the injustice rectified by pressing for a revision of the International Conventions to increase the limits applied in the absence of negligence and to remove the limits where negligence is proved and, in the meantime, to take action similar to that taken by the United States Government in 1965 and 1966, that is, to obtain agreement with the international airlines operating to this country and our international airline, whereby the limit of liability for death or injury to passengers on services including a point in this country as a point of origin, destination or agreed stopping place will be raised to an amount of $A52,000.00 exclusive of legal fees and costs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Is the amendment seconded? 
 I seek leave to move 3 amendments together. Two of the amendments propose the insertion of new clauses and the third . is to omit clause 7 and insert a new clause in its place. 
 The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  says that the Opposition is trying to give the passenger the best of 2 worlds and that the amendments provide for a movement away from the accepted and customary procedures in respect of civil aviation. We plead guilty to that because we consider that civil aviation has been living and moving in a very privileged sphere for too long and that it is time it was taken out of this field of privilege and of limited liability. My interpretation of the Workers Compensation Act is that it permits a dependent spouse or dependent children to accept the amounts laid down in the Act of so much for death and so much for loss of limb or, if they feel that they have a common law action that they can take where the employer has been negligent, they can go to the court to try to get a greater amount by way of damages. If they miss out there they can take the amount prescribed by the legislation. This is the provision that the Opposition is trying to write into this legislation. If a dependent spouse or dependent children feel that an airline operator has been negligent - and I could go into extensive detail if circumstances permitted in respect of cases where I think there has been negligence in airline accidents - they should be entitled to the best of both worlds. We admit that we are trying to take airline operators out of the privileged class and to give their passengers the opportunity of taking, to use a popular term, the money or the box. We feel they are entitled to do so. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Very briefly, the Opposition supports this Bill and the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill, which will follow this Bill. As I said in a debate earlier this evening, civil aviation has been in a privileged class. I am pleased that in one particular field the Government has removed civil aviation from that privileged class. The Bill repeals section 66 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-66. This Bill indicates to honourable members that the privilege in relation to airlines has been removed. Formerly if a passenger were travelling in an airline bus from the city terminal to the airport, or vice versa, and were involved in an accident, limited liability would apply. If a passenger were travelling in a private bus and were involved in an accident and injured, be could take the case to court and liability would not be limited. The passenger on the airline bus would be entitled to only limited damages. If the passenger were killed, his dependants could take the matter to court and would get only limited damages. This provision should never have been written into the Act. I am pleased to see that the Government is removing it from the Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
by leave - I thank the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  for giving me leave to make a statement. Once again I regret that 1 have to rise at this time of the evening. I also regret that I have to speak at some length on the Minister's statement. I have read it and the paper that has just been tabled. 1 find so much of the Minister's statement and so much of the report so difficult to understand and so unhelpful in working out just what happened on the night concerned that I must speak to the statement. The first comment I wish to make is that I regret that up to this stage the Minister has been unable to answer question No. 969, which I placed on the notice paper- 
They are in the process of being answered, are they? 
I have not yet received them. But I accept the Ministers assurance that some time today or some time in the near future I will receive answers to questions Nos 969, 970 and 971. But I cannot accept the Minister's explanation in respect of question No. 972. It was a very simple one to answer. A phone call to the fire commissioner in Adelaide would have provided the answer to lt. Yet it lay on the notice paper from 8th May until today. So I cannot accept the Minister's explanation in respect of that one. 
One thing that strikes me in regard to the report is the attempt to throw the blame on to a boilermaker and an apprentice. At page 7 of the report details are given of the fires that allegedly took place. I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that when gouging is being carried out on this type of work - I am talking on a subject about which I know a fair bit - there is a lot of spark. A nozzle is fitted to burning gear and it throws a lot of spark, lumps of red hot slag drop on to the floor of the slipway or wherever the burning is being done, and it splashes. 
Just to allow this type of work to be carried out and then to have an inspector come along at some later stage and not carry out a real and close inspection, in my opinion, represents criminal negligence on the part of the builder. I do not want to give the impression that I am having a crack at BHP because I am not. I consider that this incident shows a serious case of negligence. The more one reads the report, the more one must come to this conclusion. 
Here we have a case where a boilermaker and an apprentice were carrying out work of a dangerous nature - that is probably the only way the work can be described - as far as the safety of the ship was concerned. It was work as I indicated a moment ago - I do not wish to repeat myself - where a lot of hot metal was flying around. A 25 knot wind was blowing at this time. So, this hot metal could have been blown around. Sparks and hot metal could have lodged in almost any place and caused the fire at some later stage. The fire inspector should have been placed in a position to observe these things. The watchman, whose duty it was to go around and look for fires, should have been warned that gouging had been carried out. Gouging is not something which occurs occasionally. It is a regular procedure in building ships of this type. This man should have been charged with the responsibility by his employer of carrying out a very close and thorough investigation to make sure that no hot metal was left around in areas where a fire could be caused. 
The Minister in his statement said that the hot metal had landed somewhere and that it just lay there. Then, when the wind changed direction, apparently the fire just blew up. To use the Minister's own words: 
After some hours of smouldering a fire flared up perhaps due to a change of wind. 
I ask honourable members to look at appendix 2 to the report. It shows that at 3 p.m. the wind was from die north at 25 knots. At 9 p.m., half an hour before the fire was detected, the wind was from the west at 9 knots. But the slipway is oriented to the north west. So, the position is this: Whether the wind blows from the north or from the west it will be blowing almost down the slipway. If a fire were to break out as a result of these men having worked there earlier in the day surely a 25 knot wind which blew sometime during the afternoon and which changed direction sometime between 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. could have flared up a flame. I draw attention to (hat fact. 
I turn to another part of the report in which it is stated that the night watchmen proceeded around at 4.35 p.m. They left the main gate at 4.35 p.m. They completed the patrol in 65 minutes and returned to their office. This is the important part: It is disclosed at page 9 of the report that the first patrol was from 4.44 p.m. to 6.26 p.m. The second patrol was from 7.14 p.m. to 9.22 p.m. The report goes on to say: 
This placed him along the road in front of the Amanda Miller' on 5 or 6 occasions up to 9.25 p.m. and there was nothing unusual that he observed from the roadway. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to one fact. It is that at 9.35 p.m. there was a huge flame which was visible from another part of the steelworks industry. At 9.25, when that inspection was completed, the report states - and I repeat it: 
. there was nothing unusual that he observed from the roadway. 
The next paragraph of the report stales: 
He did not make an inspection beneath the Amanda Miller' or along the slipway crane track during the shift. 
Why not? What is wrong with making such an inspection? He should have been under the ship. He should have gone down under it every time that he carried out an inspection. Once again I want to qualify my remarks by saying that I am not blaming the inspectors. Their duties are laid down by the company. Yet a ship costing millions of dollars was being built and dangerous work was being carried out around the ship. I emphasise that point But the night watchman did hot make any inspection beneath the 'Amanda Miller' or along the slipway crane track during the shift. What the heck is the use of carrying out an inspection if you do not carry out a close inspection and get down underneath the ship? In other shipyards I have seen men burning and welding and a man has been standing by with a portable fire extinguisher. If something went wrong and a fire broke out he could put the flames out. 
I will admit that fire fighting equipment was available at the Whyalla shipyard. That is mentioned in the report, and I accept it as a fact. But the point is that trouble occurs after men cease work. If a fire begins while men are on the job they can see it and put it out very quickly. Inspections were carried out from 4.44 p.m. to 6.26 p.m. and from 7.14 p.m. to 9.22 p.m. In my opinion, the inspections were too casual. They should have been much more detailed and thorough. The report states: 
Up to 9.35 p.m. no sign of - the fire beneath or around the 'Amanda Miller' was reported by any shipyard or steelworks personnel. 
The lighting around the 'Amanda Miller' was described as brilliant. 
At approximately ,9.35 p.m. a flare was seen by the Weighbridge Attendant at the vehicle weighbridge in the steelworks area. 
The weighbridge attendant saw the flare. He immediately rang the security officer who was sitting in an office. The security officer could see the fire from where he was sitting. The reason given for the security officer not having seen- the fire previously was that there was a bright desk lamp in front of him. All right, I accept that, but probably other people will not accept it. To me it is a very paltry explanation for his not seeing the fire. The report continues: 
The events to 9.35 p.m. suggest that the fire which was started in the blocks of the starboard launching way by the gouging operation near the end of the day shift was not effectively quenched and later produced sufficient heat to cause smouldering in the timber blocks and eventually fire. 
I am not questioning that that did cause the fire. But what I am saying is- that the blame for this fire should and must not be sheeted home to the men who were working in the shipyard. The blame lays in the inadequate inspection procedures which the company had laid down. I keep coming back to the point that the night watchman did not make an inspection beneath the Amanda Miller* or alo'ng the slipway crane track during the shift. Dangerous work was being carried out but sufficient supervision was not given to guard against a fire such as that which happened at the shipyard. 
Another interesting fact is that the fire was first noted at 9.35 p.m. in -the blast furnace area of the steelworks. The security officer was immediately advised of it by telephone. So both the weighbridge attendant and the security officer were aware of the fire at 9.35 p.m. To me, the sensible and logical thing for them to do was ring the shipyard watchman and advise him that there was a fire. There is no doubt that at this stage it was a serious fire. But did these men do that sensible and logical thing? According to the report they did not. They then collected the head security officer and went around by vehicle to the shipyard gate. On . page 14 of the report it is stated:  the Weighbridge Attendant, the Blast Furnace Security Officer . . . picked up the Security Officer, drove to a Security Store to pick up some fire fighting equipment, then drove to the Shipyard Main Gate where they were let into the Shipyard by the Main Gate Watchman at aproximately 9.50 p.m. The Main Gate Watchman was unaware of the fire at the 'Amanda Miller' at this time. 
That means that for 15 minutes someone could at least have been trying to do something. The security staff' in the shipyard could have been trying to do something in that 15 minutes to put the fire out, but they were not, because they had not been advised. This is another breach of the part of the company. This report, at page 15, reads like a Gilbert and Sullivan comedy. It says: 
Some minutes were lost before a hose was connected to a hydrant at the bow of the 'Amanda Miller'. Three lengths of 100 ft hose were finally run out and an initial effort was made to fight the fire from the starboard side. This was at 9.57 p.m. 
Bear in mind, the fire was first noticed at 9.35, so this took place 22 minutes later. The report continues: 
The water flow was lost after a few minutes, probably due to the hose being burnt through towards the forward end of the ship. 
Should this type of thing happen? I suggest it should not. The report continues: 
The BHP Steelworks Fireman arrived at the Amanda Miller' with a BHP fire unit at 10.03 p.m. about the same time as two Shipyard safety officers arrived on the scene. 
The fire was noted at 9.35, so that was 28 minutes after. That is officially noted in this report The report goes on to say: 
Seeing the seriousness of the situation, he immediately called radio control to call the Whyalla Town Brigade and all BHP and Shipyard Firemen that could be mustered. 
This is after the fire had been raging for some 28 minutes. I give credit to the Whyalla Town Brigade that the bells were rung at the fire station at 10.05 p.m. and the town firemen were on the scene at 10.18, 13 minutes later. The question I ask is: Why, when the fire was first noted - and from this report it was obviously at that stage a bad fire - was not the town brigade alerted - at 9.35 p.m., instead of 10.05 p.m., 30 minutes later? These are the things that really concern me. 
Then more farce. The report continues: 
The Shipyard General Manager and other Shipyard senior officers arrived at 10.10 p.m. The Maintenance Engineer reaching the Main Gate at 10.20 p.m.- 
That is all right; I can understand their being a little delayed - immediately checked the fresh water main pressure which was 95 to 100 lb/sq. in. On arrival at the slipway he saw that the fire was threatening the main transformer and returned to the substation with the Electrical Engineer and cut power from the slipway area. This was at 10.34 p.m. Various attempts were made to supply water to the suctions of the pumps, but these were unsuccessful. 
The time  -  10.34 p.m., 59 minutes after the fire was reported. The report continues: 
However, at approximately 10.50 p.m. an examination of the isolating valve for No. 4 Slipway was made and this was found to be partially closed. On fully opening this valve full pressure was obtained in the hydrant main. 
That is the position. At 9.35 the fire is reported, and it is not until 10.50 p.m. that somebody finds this serious error which caused water to be withheld. It must be obvious to honourable members that it was in this first critical hour that the fire really got out of control and that the 'Amanda Miller' was doomed. The photographs in this report show oxy-acetylene and propane bottles, containing substances which are highly inflammable, scattered all over the ship. This shipyard works to a different procedure to other shipyards. The shipyard where I worked for so long works on the basis of having no  more  than half a dozen oxy bottles on board a ship. The rest of the equipment is connected to lines that have been put right through the shipyard so that if a fire such as this occurs they will not be in the position where they have highly inflammable oxy-acetylene or propane all over the ship which, if the ship catches fire, becomes a ready made fuel to keep the fire going. If any honourable member examines the photographs he will see large heaps of welding leads all over the ship. I accept this state of affairs. This is unavoidable. It is quite probable that there were 70, 80 or even more welders working on the ship at the time. Welding leads would be excellent  fuel  in a fire. I do not think that one could get anything better, than rubber to  burn  other than oil or, as in this case, oxygen and propane bottles. I am certain that the shipyard must review its method of operations. It should have a much safer system; I do not know whether it has since been changed. As did the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  I went over there to have a look at the shipyard. I waited until about a week or 10 days after the fire before doing so. I saw a lot of things which he would have seen. I accept the situation as far as welding leads are concerned, but I cannot accept that the shipyard was operating under safe working conditions when propane and oxygen bottles were lying around the ship. Oregon blocks were also used. Some shipyards use hardwood blocks, but this yard saw fit to use  Oregon  blocks, which are highly inflammable. There was tallow all over them because they had been used for a number of years. Tallow is used to grease the way so that a ship will slip down into the water. Tallow is also highly inflammable. Once the fire got under way it would be hopeless to try to stop it. 
I feel that the people who were responsible for fighting the fire in the shipyard were remiss. I know that it is all right to talk after the event, that one can always be wise the next day, but people who are trained in handling fires should have realised these things. The valve was partially closed and they were getting only a trickle of water through. That should never have occurred because during their training they should go through the process of checking to see that everything is right. They should check to see that the hoses have not been cut in half or have holes in them. They should also check to see that the valves are operating efficiently. As far as I am concerned, this is all part of the fire drill. 
But why was the Whyalla town fire brigade not called much earlier? It was called over half an hour after the fire had been first reported. When it was obvious that the fire was very bad why was not the Port Augusta fire brigade contacted and asked to come to the fire? There are 2 brigades at Port Pirie - a full time brigade and a back-up brigade. Why was the backup crew of the Port Pirie brigade not taken to Port Augusta to replace the Port Augusta fire crew so that it could assist in fighting this fire? Why was the fourth executive officer from Adelaide not alerted much earlier? If I remember rightly, he did not arrive at the fire until 7.15 a.m. although the fire had been reported at 9.35 p.m. the previous day. Why was he not at the scene of the fire much earlier? Why did it take him 9 hours and 40 minutes to get to the fire? 
The Port Pirie fire brigade did not arrive at Whyalla until 4.15 a.m. on the Sunday, which was 6 hours and 40 minutes after the fire had been reported. This fact appears at page 18 of the report, which states: 
It does appear that any possibility of effectively dealing with the fire under the conditions pertaining had faded by 1 1 p.m. 
A fire engine should have been able to get from Port Augusta in about an hour. A back-up machine could have come from Port Pirie to Port Augusta. A fire engine from Port Augusta should have been at the scene of the fire no later than 11 p.m. There are so many things wrong with this that I regret to say that I cannot accept the contents of this report. I ask the Minister: Will we get a copy of the report from the South Australian Fire Brigades Board? Is it to be tabled? Will we be told what actually happened? What is the interpretation of the Fire Brigades Board of what happened? I cannot understand why the Government tables a report on this matter in the Parliament without including in it a report from the Fire Brigades Board. They are the experts. 
It might be but the Commonwealth has $lm involved in this fire. 
The Commonwealth may be insured but all that that means is that the Government will have to pay higher premiums the next time it wants to take out a policy. Insurance companies will be a little warier in the future when insuring ships under construction. The answer by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  to question No. 944 asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is an indication that probably fire fighting facilities in shipyards are not satisfactory, particularly when one reads that the Minister advised the Leader of the Opposition that there should be fulltime fire fighters in every shipyard and that they should work on a 24 hour basis. I do not want to incorporate the question in Hansard but for the information of honourable members it appears at page 2887. Now that the Commonwealth Fire Board has made this recommendation about Cockatoo Island, I think that wherever the Commonwealth has ships being built on which it is paying subsidy, the Board should be asked to send an inspector to inspect the fire fighting equipment, make recommendations and give advice. I am confident that the shipyard management would be only too happy to have inspectors visit their establishments and would accept their advice. If Cockatoo Island warrants a fulltime fire officer then I think that every shipyard in Australia, particularly the larger ones such as Evans Deakin, the State Dockyard and Whyalla, should be able to afford them. 
I reiterate what I said earlier. I do not think that the boilermaker and the apprentice should have the blame sheeted home to them. Let us forget for a moment that boilermakers and I are members of the one union, but at least I know a little bit about shipbuilding. The blame has to be sheeted home to the employer for having failed to lay down a system of inspection which would require the night watchman to go over the ship not once but continually after the men had finished work. I have fished at night in the State Dockyard after men have finished work. It is one of the best fishing spots in Newcastle for jewfish - or it used to be. Other men also have fished there at night. I have seen the watchman making his rounds night after night, going over ships to make sure that there were no fires. I think a similar procedure should be followed at Whyalla. I hope that the workmen on the job, the boilermaker and the apprentice, will not be blamed. I do not blame the watchman for having failed to carry out his duties. All I say is that the duties of the watchman were not extensive enough to ensure that an accident like this did not occur. 1 hope that the lessons that have been learned from this fire will ensure that there will be no similar fires in the future because they are disastrous to the industry. I give credit to BHP because none of the men lost time as a result of the fire. Those who could not be employed usefully in the shipyard were transferred to another part of the company's establishment - the steelmaking section - and in this way continuity of employment was ensured. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say what land reform and social legislation has been passed and brought into operation in South Vietnam since 19567 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Is he able to give the estimated number of foreign troops in Cambodia. 
From which countries did they come. 
When did these troops first occupy any part of Cambodia. 
Has the Cambodian Government publicly acknowledged and aproved of their presence. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
At what time and by whom was the fire on the 'Amanda Miller' reported and to whom was it reported. ' 
At what time was the fire reported to the Whyalla Fire Station and at what time did the brigade arrive at the fire. 
What was the wind force and direction at the time the fire was reported. 
At what position on the slipway did the fire start and what caused it. 
Were any men working on the slipways between 3.30 p.m. and the time the fire was reported; if so, what work were they doing. 
Is a watchman detailed to keep the ship under observation; if so, at what points was he required to click a bundy and at what times after 3.30 p.m. did he click it. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What fire fighting equipment is there at the Whyalla Shipbuilding and Engineering Works. South Australia. 
How many fire ladders were available on the day the 'Amanda Miller' was on fire and how much foam equipment was on or adjacent to the slipway. 
How many pumps were used to fight the fire and were they powered by petrol driven motors or electricity. 
If powered by electricity, was there an independent supply or was power from the main supply line to the slipway. 
Has the South Australian Fire Brigade Board been called upon to prepare a report on the fire; if so, will he table this report in the Parliament or will he advise me of its contents. 
Have the police investigated the possibility of sabotage. 
When will the coroner's enquiry be held 
Has the South Australian Government taken any action to hold a full and independent public inquiry into the cause of the fire and everything associated with it. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: (I.) Has he any information associated with the reticulation of water, the mains, valves and pressure utilised at the lime of the fire on the Amanda Miller. 
Is the Engineering and Water Supply Department of South Australia responsible for (he reticulation of water within the Broken Mill Proprietary Company Ltd boundary. 
Was there a failure of water pressure resulting from outdated flanges on the water main extending from the trunk main leading up to and alongside the slipway or was therea failure for some other reason. 
What ancillary or back-up water resources were utilised to fight thefire. 
Is there a fire float in the Port of Whyalla. 
Is a fire float considered essential to afford minimum protection for a major port. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Is he able to say what trade unions there are in South Vietnam and what is their membership. 
Have any trade unionists been imprisoned since 1956; if so, for what reason. 
Will the Government arrange and finance a fact finding interchange of trade unionists between the 2 countries. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many people are employed' directly and indirectly iti (a) shipping, stevedoring and ship building, (b) railway, and (c) road transport activites. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: ls he able to state what amount was spent from Commonwealth aid road funds on (a) street lighting and (b) traffic control equipment and signs by each state during the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the ship 'Boonaroo' owned by the Australian National Line operated in the last 2 years at less than half its capacity; if so, when, and between what ports. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
ls there an acute shortage of qualified marine surveyors, particularly those with marine engineering qualifications, in his Department. 
Have recruiting campaigns in Australia and overseas failed almost completely to attract suitable officers. 
How many marine surveyor positions are occupied by officers not fully qualified. 
From which British Commonwealth countries has the Department recruited marine surveyors. 
What has been done to attract young Australians to seek a career in maritime safety so essential to the well-being of an expanding shipping industry. 
Is it a fact that, whereas salary increases of 30% have been granted to Second Division officers of the Public Service in the last 3 years, marine surveyors have received no increase since December 1966. 
If so, is this a major reason for failure to recruit satisfactory staff. 
Have repeated approaches for a measure of salary justice been made to the Department and the Public Service Board by the officers concerned. If so, with what result. 
Will he take action to restore the salaries of marine surveyors to their former relativity with the maritime industry from which they are recruited. 
Will he introduce an assisted training scheme to enable young officers to obtain the highest maritime qualifications so necessary for the proper performance of their duties and safety of life at sea and so assist the Department to observe properly the elementary principles of good management and forward planning in this most vital safety matter. 
Is there a great and growing concern amongst maritime unions for the safety of their members and for the safety of the public who travel by sea. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: ls he able to say, what were the annual freight charges for the past 10 years on goods carried within Australia by (a) sea, (b) road, (c) rail and (d) air. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping  and  Transport,  upon  notice: 
Were all Australian National Line ships operating at maximum capacity during 1968 and 1969. 
If not, did any of these ships at any lime operate at less than half their capacity. 
If any ship operated at less than half its capacity, what was (a) the name of the ship and (b) the ports between which it operated. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Commonwealth Fire Board's recommendations of 2 April 1970 that firefighting at the Cockatoo Island (N.S.W.) Dockyard should be entrusted to professional firemen on a 24-hour a day basis (Hansard, 3 June 1970, page 2887). 
Has this recommendation been brought to the notice of shipyards receiving Commonwealth subsidies; if so, when. 
Will he arrange with each shipyard receiving subsidy for (he Commonwealth Fire Board to inspect the yard to recommend procedures and assist with firefighting equipment. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice 
Can he say what is the turnout time in South Australia of: 
a fire station manned by volunteer firemen and 
a full brigade station. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many people are employed directly or indirectly in the aircraft industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Whatwas the (a) longest and (b) short-term Commonwealth Bond interest rate on1 January 1950. 
On what dates since1 January 1 950 were these rates increased, and by how much. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say what has been the annual investment in all forms of transport and ancillary industries for the past 10 years, and in particular, in 
air transport, 
shipping, shipbuilding and stevedoring, 
road transport, and 
railway activities. 
 I oppose the proposition that we adopt a 4-day sitting week. I consider that there are many reasons why honourable members should not commit themselves to a 4-day week. Firstly, we have no guarantee from the Government that the sittings will continue for any length of time or that honourable members will be given the opportunity of debating at length measures brought before the Parliament. Let me state a hypothetical example. Suppose that in the autumn or spring session of Parliament there is sufficient business for 60 sitting days. If a 4-day week is introduced the Parliament will sit for 15 weeks. If there is a 3-day week the Parliament will sit for 20 weeks and that will mean that the Parliament will be in recess for a much shorter time. For 20 weeks honourable members will have access to Ministers and will have the opportunity to raise matters of national importance in this Parliament during the 3-day week. If business is completed in 15 weeks Parliament will be in recess for a much longer period. Then the only way honourable members will be able to raise matters of importance to their electorates, their parties or the people as a whole will be by writing to the Prime Minister or the Minister in question. We will not be able to subject Ministers to continuous questioning, raise matters of urgency, speak on adjournment motions or do other things that honourable members are entitled to do under the Standing Orders to bring to the attention of the Parliament matters which concern them and their electorates or the nation as a whole. For that reason alone we should dispose of the proposition for a 4-day week which has been put before us on the supposition that honourable members will travel less, that it will involve less travelling between their electorates and this place. On one occasion a senator stated in my company that one would think that the sitting hours of this Parliament were framed to provide business for the airlines. I am not concerned with the airlines; I am concerned with doing a job in my electorate and doing a job in this place. With a 3-day week we will be in a much better position to bring matters continually before the Parliament. 
If the Government had proposed to us tonight: 'Whether it be a 3-day week or a 4- day week we will sit from the first Tuesday in February to the last Thursday in May' - 'that is a silting extending over 4 months - I would agree to a 4-day week. If the Government were to say also: 'In the Budget session we will sit from the first Tuesday in August to the last Thursday in November' - that would be the minimum sitting period - yes, there would be some sense and logic in a 4-day week. But the way I see it - I emphasise this - is that this is an attempt to close this Parliament as quickly as is possible so that the Executive will be able to continue to rule and dominate the affairs of the Parliament. We would become increasingly a rubber stamp for the Executive, whether a Labor Government or a Liberal-Country Party Government was in office. 
There are many other points to be taken into consideration. I see a member's responsibility as something more than attending in this place. If you consider the number of members who speak in the Parliament you will agree with me that some honourable members rarely participate in debates. In fact a former member of this House had the proud reputation of having made only 1 speech during the whole of his time in the Parliament. It is not a matter of the number of times that a member speaks in this place. If some honourable members want to become a rubber stamp for the Executive, that is a matter for them. As I see it, a member has 2 responsibilities. Firstly, he is required to be here as often as he can while his health permits him to do so, and if his health deteriorates to the extent that he cannot be here then the sooner he resigns the better. Secondly, a member has a responsibility to his electorate and to his constituents. I know that most honourable members attend their offices daily when the House is in recess. 
Another matter concerns me greatly. I have established an understanding in my electorate that I am in my office every Monday except in exeptional circumstances - one such occasion arose when my Party held a meeting on Monday of this week - or should a committee of which I am a member meet on that day. I might add that when a Monday sitting is suggested I always try to use my influence with the committee not to sit on that day. The proposal before us is to sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the second week. That will throw members out of their routine in their offices. At present their constituents know the days on which their member can be interviewed. Whether it be a Monday, as in my case, or a Friday is immaterial but at least let us have some set days on which we can be in our offices so that our constituents will know when they can interview their member. With the present 4-day sittings my secretary and 1 rarely leave my office before 8 p.m. on Mondays and there have been occasions when we have not left until 9.30 p.m. I do not think this is a fair go. Under the proposed arrangement we will not be in our electorate offices for a period of 10 days. Further, according to the programme which has been outlined a member will not be in his office on ordinary working days which I classify as from Monday to Friday. 
If honourable members decide to change the Standing Orders to provide for the proposed sitting days we will have to look at the question of the payment of overtime for the staff we engage. At present the payment of overtime is not permitted. Ministers are all right. They can bring their staff on duty whenever they wish to do so and pay them overtime, but as far as other honourable members are concerned the position is different. If the 4-day sitting week is introduced we should be given authority to bring in staff on a Saturday and a Sunday to clear the business which has accumulated in our offices while we have been in Canberra, and to pay the staff overtime. 1 suppose most people try to stick to a S-day week, but in industry if it is necessary to work overtime on a Saturday and a Sunday the staff concerned is paid overtime. I cannot see any reason why, under the circumstances which may be created here tonight, we should not have the opportunity and the right to bring in staff over the weekend to dispose of correspondence and other business which accumulate in our offices while we are away, and to pay the staff overtime. These matters must be taken into consideration. 
Another matter which has been raised is that if we sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the second week honourable members who have to travel long distances will stop over in Canberra on Saturdays and Sundays. I have spoken to a few honourable members who live in Western Australia and other far distant places and they all have indicated to me that if the House rises on Friday afternoon of the first week they will pack up and go home. I know that I will go home. I have no intention of remaining in Canberra on Saturdays and Sundays. If that is what the Standing Orders Committee has in mind, I am one who will not cooperate with it. As far as I am concerned 1 will be going home as soon as I can get out of this place. Travel will not be saved by the introduction of a 4-day week. Possibly things will only be complicated for members. I oppose the proposition. We cannot move an amendment. There will be a straight out vote for or against it. But if the proposition is adopted, when the Minister proposes his next motion at least let us look at the possibility of working on the same 4 days in the 2 weeks that we might sit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to say how many people are employed directly or indirectly in the airline industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the annual expenditure on 
new runways, or extensions to runways; 
maintenance of runways; 
navigational aids; 
meteorological services; and 
buildings during the past 10 years. 
What was the return from the use of those assets or services during each of those years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did a 6-year old child accidentally pull an exit lever and open an escape window on an Ansett DC9 aircraft at Sydney Airport on 14th May 1970. 
If so, did the child or the parent pull the lever as a diversion during an incident on the aircraft. 
Are these levers set so that a 6-year old child can open a window. 
If an escape window on a DC9 aircraft is accidentally opened whilst the aircraft is in flight, could a fatal accident occur. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In recent weeks have there been savage increases in Australia-United KingdomEurope conference shipping freights on north bound and south bound services? Is the Government satisfied that these freight increases are justified?  If  not, what positive action has been taken to prevent the decision of the conference line from being implemented? Did representatives of conference lines who appeared before the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes give assurances that the introduction of containerisation on the Australia to United Kingdom trade would prevent any increases in freight rates? 
I join the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  expressing some opposition to the Committee's recommendations. I concede that the Public Works Committee has a responsibility to examine all aspects of a proposal submitted to it and to determine the most economical means of constructing an undertaking, whether it be an airport runway, a mail exchange or anything else. No doubt the Committee has examined this proposal from the point of view of economy and on the evidence presented to it has reached its conclusions regarding extension of the runway. But 1 do not believe that the Committee has paid sufficient attention to the problem of noise which will be created by the proposed extension. 
I am a member of the House of Representative Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. My colleagues and I on that Committee have sat for hundreds of hours taking evidence about the problem of aircraft noise. We have received numerous submissions from the Keilor City Council drawing our attention to the noise created by operations at Melbourne Airport as they affect people living in the Council's area. In view of the recommendation of the Public Works Committee that the northsouth runway be extended by 2,500 feet at the southern end and by 1,000 feet at the northern end the people of Keilor are justified in fearing a great increase in the noise level over residential development. When the extended runway is in operation, aircraft will at the point of take-off be much closer to residential development than is the case at present. This is obvious because pilots will have a greater length of runway and will be much lower than they are now when they pass over the houses. As everybody knows, the closer to the ground an aircraft is, the higher the level of noise to which people on the ground are subjected. 
No. If the runway is extended by 2,500 feet to the south, aircraft will be 2,500 feet closer to the houses when they lake off. The jumbo jets will need 12,000 feet of runway. For what other reason is the runway being extended than a need for aircraft to have this additional length of runway? 
Perhaps - just to provide work; just to spend money on bitumen and other materials, lt is obvious that if the runway is extended aircraft will use the extended length. Surely it is not proposed to extend the runway simply to deny cattle the use of grazing land. If the runway is extended by 2,500 feet to the south, aircraft taking off in a southerly direction and using the extended runway will be at a lower point when they pass over residential development. 
In the recent recess the Aircraft Noise Committee inspected Tullamarine. We inspected the northern side of the airport and we were shown how the runway would be extended and how the present road would have to be diverted. We were not required to make any decisions at that stage. However, I reached the conclusion that if this Parliament is really concerned about the problem of aircraft noise, the time to act is now. I concede that if the runway is extended only in a northerly direction the cost of the extension will be increased by $4.5m but if the runway is extended by 2,500 feet at the southern end the ultimate cost to the people of Keilor and the Department of Civil Aviation could be far greater. Let us spend the extra money and extend the runway in a northerly direction. The added cost will be offset by benefits to the thousands of people who live in Keilor. The time to act is now, not at some stage in the future. Let us not get into the position in which we find ourselves in Sydney, where we are spending millions of dollars to extend the runway into Botany Bay. What is the purpose of this? All we are doing in Sydney is providing landing facilities for bigger and bigger aircraft, which will increase the noise problem for the people living adjacent to Mascot. The Government should be seeking an alternative site for Sydney's airport. 1 cannot see any solution to the noise problem as it affects Sydney people who live under the approach paths to Mascot. A noise problem also exists at Brisbane and at West Beach in Adelaide. If you lift curfews you increase the problem. In Melbourne the Commonwealth has an opportunity to deal with the problem if it handles the matter in the right way. In my opinion the right way to handle the matter at Tullamarine is to extend the north-south runway at the northern end, where at present there is very limited development. Flight paths could be planned to create the minimum nuisance. The Aircraft Noise Committee has already recommended to the Parliament that local government and State authorities, as well as the Department of Civil Aviation, should plan flight paths into and out of airports so as to minimise the problem of noise. Here at Tullamarine we have an opportunity to do this. All that you will do if you accept the Public Works Committee's recommendations is extend the runway closer to Keilor. By so doing you will increase the noise level affecting the unfortunate people who live under the flight path. As an amendment to the motion I move: 
That recommendation No. 4 of the Public Works Committee be referred lo the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise for report. 
The honourable member for Bourke will second the amendment. 
MrSPEA KER - Order! Under the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act the only alternative course open is to refer the report back to the Public Works Committee. Therefore the proposed amendment is out of order. 
If that is the only course open to me I accept it. I regret having to take this action, but 1 move: 
That the report be referred back to the Public Works Committee. 
The motion will be seconded either by the honourable member for Hughes or the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  1 regret that I have had to move that this reference go back to the Public Works Committee. I realise that it has made certain recommendations after conducting extensive hearings into this project. However I disagree with the proposal to extend the north-south runway by 2,500 feet towards the south and 1,000 feet towards the north. I believe the Committee should give serious consideration to making the extension only to the northern end and making it to a distance of 3,500 feet. As the entire project may go back to the Committee 1 ask that the aircraft noise problem be considered by it because 1 know full well the relief that could be given to the people of Keilor. 1 want to refer now to airport curfews. There is a lot of agitation in Victoria for the lifting of the curfew. I do not want to enter into controversy over the advantages of lifting the curfew at Melbourne or the disadvantages that would affect Adelaide, Sydney and  Other  airports. All I am concerned with is the disadvantage to the people  who  live in Melbourne itself. If the curfew  at  Melbourne is lifted then the practice will spread like a bushfire. The next thing that would happen would be that there would be great agitation in Sydney to lift the curfew at Kingsford-Smith airport. The same could be said about Brisbane and Adelaide. People who are not affected by aircraft noise have no consideration for those who have to put up with  it.  Airports in Australia today have grown up like Topsy. They have not been planned. Even the attempt to plan Tullamarine airport failed because the Department of Civil Aviation and, in particular, the Minister for Local Government in Victoria, did not have a real appreciation of the aircraft noise problem. This problem only commenced to sink in over recent years in Australia. The Victorian Government did not appreciate the real problems of aircraft noise. If it had I am certain that its Minister for Local Government would not have permitted rezoning of land for residential development under the flight path of the north-south runway at Tullamarine. 
It should have known all about it but at the same time it may not appreciate the real problem. I will give it the benefit of the doubt. At the same time there is no reason in the world why, this Parliament having appointed the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, we should just accept the recommendation of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. Honourable members could then go out of this House and say that the Public Works Committee recommended this project and Parliament did not see fit to include this matter in its terms of reference. If one peruses the reference for this project, which appears at the commencement of the Committee's report, one finds no request for it to make a recommendation on the lifting of the curfew in Melbourne. This is a matter which the Committee encountered during its hearing. 
I believe that matters associated with aircraft noise should be referred to the Aircraft Noise Committee and that it should make the recommendations. The Public Works Committee took only a limited amount of evidence, yet made an important decision recommending the lifting of the curfew at one of the two largest airports in Australia. 1 think this was wrong in principle and that the Public Works Committee acted beyond its responsibility. This Parliament must be aware of the need to do something about aircraft noise. It is for that reason, especially as I have moved that this matter be referred back to the Public Works Committee, that I ask that the Committee reconsider its recommendation that the runway be extended by 2,500 feet to the south and 1,000 feet to the north. I ask the Committee to recommend that the runway be extended by 3,500 feet to the north and I ask that the matter of lifting the curfew at Melbourne be referred to the Aircraft Noise Committee for further consideration. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the annual freight charge for the past 10 years on all imports and exports carried by (a) sea and (b) air. 
Can he say how much of this freight was a direct charge against the Australian importer or exporter. 
asked the Minister for 
Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What was the (a) name, (b) tonnage, (c) owner, (d) country of registration, (e) Australian agent, 
originating port and (g) port of destination of each tanker which carried imports of crude oil to Australia in 1969. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
In view of his answer to question No. 9 on 12th May 1970 (Hansard, pages 2023-4) advising me that the grant of $31,440 to the Carlton United Brewery was for research that must be treated as confidential, can he say, without disclosing any confidential information, if the grant is to be used for research into beer or some other alcoholic beverage. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have listened to the usual dreary speech from our Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  Not only was it a dreary speech but also it was not a factual speech. I want to take the PostmasterGeneral to task one one particular point. He said that this Government had a mandate from the people of Australia because it was elected by the majority of the people. Let us look at the facts. The Liberal Party polled 2,126.987 votes in the last election. Cockies Corner polled- 
If the term Cockies Corner' is objectionable to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will refer to the Country Party. The Country Party polled 523,242 votes, making a total of 2,750,229 votes for the Government parties. The Australian Labor Party polled 2,870,792 votes. 1 ask honourable members to work out who received the most votes. It is obvious that the Labor Party polled more votes than the Government parties. The majority of the people in Australia voted for us. More people in Australia vote for the Australian Labor Party than for any other party in this Parliament. These facts can be checked with the Chief Electoral Officer's report for the last election. So much for that. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). Not only do I support the proposed amendment. I go further and congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on the excellent speech he delivered here last Tuesday night. It was a clear analysis of the phoney Budget which has been presented by this Government. I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on the way in which he has gone about his task as Leader in the last  3i  or 4 years. He has continually caused the Government great concern. Supporters of the Government have spent a great deal of time trying to deride him. They have set out in every possible way to undermine him. The sum total of their efforts was shown in the last election results. The Government went to the people with a record majority, but just scrambled home. 
The voting figures I cited a moment ago clearly establish that the people of Australia would prefer an Australian Labor Party government to be in control in the Federal Parliament. It was only as a result of the gerrymandering of electorates by the Country Party so that country members represent about 10,000 to 15,000 people fewer than members in city electorates that the Government was able to hold ils position. Another aiding factor was the donkey vote, as was clearly shown in  Mr Speaker's  electorate. Late preferences in absentee and postal votes enabled  Mr Speaker  to defeat our candidate in the last couple of days of counting. A similar position applied in the electorates of Lilley, Griffiths, Evans and Lowe. A study of these facts and figures reveals a clear picture. The Government was fortunate to survive. We had the numbers; unfortunately the Government won the seats. That is the situation that faces us today. 
The Budget has been referred to by the majority of the Press as a give and take Budget. I would reverse the description and call it a take and give Budget; the Government takes much and gives very little. In particular it gives very little to those people who really need it. In recent years I have not said much about pensioners, but 1 want to say a few words now about the miserly pension paid to aged people. widows, invalids and recipients of service and repatriation pensions. For some years now in this place I have listened to various Ministers for Social Services, various Treasurers and Government supporters talk about the great amount of money paid by this Government for social services. But they overlook the fact that the number of pensioners today is much greater than it was in 1949 when the Labor Government was defeated. They have also failed to take into consideration the serious inflation which the Government has permitted and encouraged in this country. There are more pensioners today because there are more people in this country. The Government is paying more in pensions today for the simple reason that we have had serious inflation for the past 20 years. 
Let us get back to facts and figures and compare like with like. The Chifley Government was defeated in 1949. That Government was paying to pensioners a pension equal to 24% of the average weekly earnings of that time. If pensioners were to receive today the same percentage of the present average weekly earnings, which at last review was $74.70, they would be receiving $1.8 a week as against the miserable $15.50 which will be paid to them in October after the appropriate legislation is passed by the Parliament. On the same basis, married pensioners would be receiving $36 a week as against the miserly S27.50 they will be paid in October. When Government supporters refer to the great sums of money that are being paid in social service and repatriation pensions I ask them to take that calculation into consideration. 
If the Government wishes to maintain the purchasing power of pensioners at the level established by a Labor Government it will immediately grant an increase to single pensioners to bring their pension to $18 a week, and will increase the pension payable to married pensioner couples to $36 a week. That calculation takes no account of increased productivity which has taken place. I concede that productivity has increased in this country. Why are the social service and repatriation pensioners not entitled to some benefits from increased productivity? 
The cost of living has greatly increased since the last increase in pensions was granted in October last year. It has increased by approximately  3i%.  The nig gardly 50c increase which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has granted in pensions in this Budget accounts only for the increase of 3i% in the cost of living. No attention has been paid to expected price increases in the next 12 months. This Government has never been prepared to bring down supplementary Budgets to give pensioners anything. All it is prepared to do is to bring down supplementary Budgets which take money away from people through increases in taxation and excise and charges of that nature. As I said, this increase in pensions will simply keep pace with the increase of  3i%  in the cost of living which has taken place in the period of 8 months since the last increase in pensions. 
The minimum increase in pensions that should have been granted is $1 a week. I think pensioners would have been satisfied to receive an increase of $1 a week, but even that would not properly keep pace with increasing costs. I would not know how the statisticians arrive at that figure of 3J-% as the increase in the cost of living in the last 8 months. If you talk to any woman in the community she will tell you that prices are increasing alarmingly. Name any commodity, and you will find that its cost has increased. 
There are other matters in the social services field which need serious and immediate attention. I refer for example lo the miserly sum of $7 a week paid as a wife's allowance. I ask any honourable member opposite to indicate how he would keep himself and a wife on a pension of $15.50, which is the amount to be paid each week to a single pensioner, plus S7 as an allowance for his wife. If any honourable member opposite can demonstrate to me how a couple can live today on $22.50 a week I will go quietly. That is the best I can say. Why does not the Government bring down this week legislation to improve social service benefits? Why should a woman, just because she is not of pensionable age, be deprived of a reasonable income? I do not consider the pension paid today as reasonable. I do not want to be led astray or misunderstood. The Treasurer is in the chamber at the moment and I ask him to do something urgently about the anomaly that exists in the Social Services Act. 
Another bad feature of the social service system is that if a husband is 65 years of age and is not classified as permanently incapacitated for work, his wife does not receive the weekly supplementary assistance of S7. She has to wait until her husband reaches 70 years of age before she qualifies automatically for the supplementary assistance, unless a doctor is prepared to certify that her husband would be entitled in normal circumstances to an invalid pension during the period from his 65th to his 70th birthday. 
We have heard a lot of talk about relaxing and abolishing the means test. What we should be working for is a much greater increase in the base rate of pension and the elimination of anomalies such as that to which I have just referred. Another awkward facet of social service legislation is the supplementary assistance paid to single pensioners providing they have separate income of less than $3 a week or, under the merged means test, have a commensurate amount of assets. No consideration is given to married pensioner couples who must pay rent or single pensioners who own their own homes. I challenge Government supporters to name one municipality in Australia where combined council and water rates are less than $100 a year.  1  will be very surprised if any honourable member opposite can name a municipality where the charges for water, sewerage and so on amount to less than $100 a year. It is time that this question was looked at 
I would now like to deal with insurance on homes. There are very few insurance policies that will permit the full insurance of an average type home for less than from $15 to $20 a week. Also, the houses need maintenance such as painting and the other things that are necessary. If we work it out we come up with the decision that it costs the average person about $150 or $160 a year to live in his own home. I should be surprised if anyone outside this place would disagree with me that these people are entitled to some supplementary assistance. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Social Services has just walked into the House. I hope he has noted the points that I have raised in respect of the wife's allowance and supplementary assistance. 
The last matter on which I want to appeal to the Minister is in regard to the conditions under which people are permitted to occupy aged persons homes. At the moment a person must be classified as an aged person before he may do so. A woman must be over 60 years of age and a man over 65 years of age. What I am asking the Minister to do is to extend the provisions of this Act so that it provides for pensioners to occupy these homes. We need not call them aged persons homes. If the Minister wishes, we can call them pensioners homes. At least this would allow the widows and the invalid pensioners to take advantage of this benefit. I consider that the worst off pensioner in this community is the invalid pensioner. At least the age pensioner may have the opportunity to save money and to put some of it aside to purchase his own home. But many invalids are people who have been disabled in their youth or ha%'e been bom with various disabilities. I do not want to mention the disabilities now. These people have never had the opportunity to save money or to acquire a home of their own. I ask the Minister to make provision for a person who is classified as a pensioner to be permitted to occupy a pensioner's home. The homes should not be reserved only for age pensioners. 
So much for social services. The next point I want to deal with relates to taxation. The Government has placed great stress on the concessions which have been granted in this Budget. I congratulate the Government for granting these concessions and for at least being prepared to look at this question. But once again the people who need the greatest assistance have received the least assistance from the Government. 1 want to deal, by way of example, with the position of a tradesman who received about $1,500 a year in 1954-55, which was the last time that the tax schedules were amended, and who today would receive about $3,000 a year. In 1954-55 such a man would have paid $123 tax on his earnings of $1,500. The average earnings of the tradesman would have doubled in the period between 1954-55 and 1968-69, the period to which I am referring. Working on that basis and that factual position, such a tradesman would today receive about $3,000 a year. In 1968-69 he would have paid tax of $463 a year, or an increase of 277%. Under the Budget proposal he will be paying $426 a year tax, or an increase over and above his 1954-55 tax of 246%. So we can see that while this man has received some relief he has not received as much relief as the taxpayer in the next category. In 1954-55, that taxpayer, with an income of $6,000 a year, paid $1,507 in tax. Once again, because of the increase of average weekly earnings he would today be earning about $12,000 a year and would be paying $4,615 in tax, an increase of 206%. 
As a result of the new schedule proposed in the Budget he will be paying $4,280 in tax or 184% more than he was paying in 1954-55. When we take the taxpayer who was classified by this Government as being in the higher income group - the man in recept of $16,000 in 1954-55 and who today would be earning about $32,000 a year - he is paying $17,251 in tax which represents an increase of 153% over and above his 1954-55 tax. So we can see that the man in the low income group - the tradesman - has had an increase of tax, even under this new schedule, of 246% over and above the amount he paid in 1954-55. The taxpayer in the $6,000 to $12,000 a year bracket has had his tax increased by 1 84% and the taxpayer in the $16,000 to $32,000 a year bracket is still paying only 153% more than he was paying back in 1954-55. The taxpayers in the higher income groups have been receiving the advantage of a lower rate of taxation than the taxpayers in the lower income groups. My one regret is that greater assistance was not given to men and women in the much lower income brackets. They are the people who need it. We should have regard to the fact that a man who receives $50 a week receives by way of taxation relief a saving of only 70c a week. The man on $60 a week receives relief of only $1 a week; the man on $70 a week, $1.20 a week; the man on $80 a week, $1.50 a week; the man on $100 a week, $2.30 a week; and the man on $200 a week or near enough to $10,000 a year, $7.10 a week. Therefore, we can see the inequities that have arisen even under the new tax schedule. Yet the Government has been boasting about it and saying what it has done for the people. 
Let us have a look at the concessional allowances for dependants and see the way in which this Government has been working. In 1954-55 a taxpayer received an allowance of $260 for his spouse. In 1970-71 the allowance is $312, an increase of 20%. In 1954-55 the allowance for the first child was $156. Today the allowance is $208, an increase of 33%. The allowance for the second and all subsequent children in 1954-55 was $104: today it is $156, an increase of 50%. Let us have a look at those people who are concerned with superannuation and insurance. This is a field in which there are some savings for people in the higher income bracket. Can honourable members imagine a worker on $50 a week contributing $1,200 a year to an insurance policy or a superannuation fund? We can see why the insurance and superannuation allowance was increased from $400 to $1,200 a year. Why were not similar concessions extended to people in the lower income groups? This concession is there for people on high incomes, lt is only people in receipt of $7,000 or $10,000 a year or more who can afford to contribute $1,200 a year to an insurance policy or to a superannuation fund, lt is time that the Government really had a look at these questions. 
I turn now to other matters that I want to discuss in the limited time available to me. We have listened in recent days to a campaign being built up by this Government to create the impression that there is a need for legislation on law and order in this country. Admittedly there have been a few ratbag demonstrations by students who represent a very very small minority of people in this country. The vast majority of people are responsible citizens, as are the average trade unionists. We have listened in this place this week to the vilification of one of the best men in the trade union movement. I refer to Bob Hawke. We have heard statements about the kind of individual he is. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that Bob Hawke is a potential dictator. All I want to say is that the trade union movement is fortunate that it has as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions a person of the calibre of Bob Hawke. I give him my maximum support and wish him luck in what he is doing. Some people wonder why trade unions are on the move today, why they are agitating and striking for more money. All I ask honourable members to do is to have a look at the profits that are being made today by companies, by industry, by commerce, by financiers and by the banks. 
I have a list of information here which would open your eyes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I want very quickly to go through this list. I refer to the month of August of last year. The reason I have not taken August of this year is that firstly the list is not complete and secondly, it has been in the last 12 months that all of this real agitation has been taking place for a real increase in wages. I am citing the figures which have sparked off this agitation for more money for the trade unionists, for the workers of this country. These are only figures relating to company profits which were announced in August 1969. In the transport field 1 company showed a profit earning rate of 9.6%: 7 showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; and 3 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%. These are all companies with a minimum paid up capital of Sim, so they are not minor backyard factories. 
In the textile and clothing field, 1 company made a loss between 1% and 10%; 1 company showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%, 2 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; 2 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40% and I showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50%, and it did not have a bad sort of a profit earning rate - 43.1%. In the steel and engineering field, 1 company showed a loss; no companies showed a profit earning rate between 1% and 10%; 8 showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; 11 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; and 4 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40%. 
In the food field, 1 1 companies showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%: 7 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%: 2 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40%; and I showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50%. I can assure honourable members that some of the profits made in this field were quite substantial. In the motor vehicle, manufacturing and distribution field, 1 company showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; 6 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; 2 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40%; I showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50%; 1 showed a profit earning rate between 50% and 60%; and 1 showed a profit earning rate between 80% and 90%. Those figures do not take into consideration the exorbitant inflated profits which are made each year by General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd. 
Last year that company made a profit of $30,800,000. In the manufacturing, household, electrical, hardware and furniture field, I company showed a loss; 1 showed a profit earning rate between 1% and 10%; 7 showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; 6 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; and 1 showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50% . 
I turn to the mining and oil field. This is the field about which people are really becoming agitated in this country, particularly when they take into account the huge profits that are being made and the paltry amount of 50c per week which pensioners have been told they will receive. In August of last year in the mining and oil field, 2 companies showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; 3 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; 3 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40%; and 1 showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50%. That does not take into consideration the profit of $46,610,000 earned by Hamersley Iron, or $26,500,000 earned by the Shell company, or $24,400,000 earned by Mount Isa Mines Ltd in the first 6 months of this taxation year. 
I have not time to go through the figures relating to the profits of ali the other companies, but Peko-Wallsend earned a profit of $7,152,000, which represented an earning rate of 99.8%. Hamersley Iron had an earning rate of 93.2%. New Broken Hill Consolidated had an earning rate of 64%. Renison Ltd showed a profit of $1,921,000 and an earning rate of 104.5%. They are not bad earning rates. I wonder how many honourable members opposite have shares in those companies. In the construction and building field, 4 companies showed a profit earning rate between 10% and 20%; 6 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; 1 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40%, and 1 showed a profit earning rate between 40% and 50% . 
When one looks at the Press and radio field, there is no wonder that the Press and radio support this Government, particularly when one takes into consideration that Consolidated Press had a profit earning rate of 160.5%; Macquarie Broadcasting had a profit earning rate of 32.4%; Television Corporation had a profit earning rate of 65.7%; the Victorian Broadcasting 
Network had a profit earning rate of 38.8%; Newcastle Broadcasting and TV Corporation had a profit earning rate of 57.7%; and News Ltd had a profit earning rate of 58.8%. Those are the profit earning rates of only some of these companies. Honourable members opposite stand in this place and condemn the workers for having the audacity to go on strike or to demonstrate in order to demand more money at a time when profits such as those to which I have referred are being made in the community. 
I turn to the rural field. Our poor old friends in their rabbit warrens on the other side of the chamber refer to the exploitation of people in rural districts. One company exploiting the rural producer had a profit earning rate between 10% and 30%; 3 showed a profit earning rate between 20% and 30%; and 1 showed a profit earning rate between 30% and 40% . Let me now look at the profits that are being made by companies in the retailing field. Myers Emporium showed a profit earning rate of 49.3%; Grace Brothers showed a profit earning rate of 33.5%; and Georges (Aust.) showed a profit earning rate of 34.7%. ICIANZ earned a profit of $l5m; British Tobacco earned a profit of $12m; Australian Paper Manufacturers earned a profit of $10m; and Dunlop (Australia) earned a profit of $17m. 
I now turn to the real estate and finance field, which is the field in which people are really being exploited today. Let me refer to the daddy of them all - the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table relating to this company. 

<graphic href="069131197008274_75_4.jpg"></graphic>

Anyone who in 1950 held 100 shares in the BHP Company would today have 527 shares. That is not a bad capital growth. By taking up all of the offers - 1 for 5, 1 for 6, 1 for 7 and all the rest - those shares would have cost that person $549 in the last 20 years. The market value of those 100 shares in 1950 would have been $565. If that person had taken up all the options in the period, today he would have 527 shares and their market value on today's valuation would be $7,825.75. Honourable members can see the way in which this company has really exploited the Australian people. Is it any wonder that tradesmen employed by the BHP Company go on strike and demand more money, when they see the company making these profits? In 1950 the profit of the company was $3,306,000, and for the year ended 31st May 1970 the profit was $59,796,000. 
The company has said that it is paying a dividend of 11%. I ask honourable members to multiply that dividend by 5 because anyone who held 100 shares in the company in 1950 would hold 527 shares today. That dividend of 11% represents, in reality, a dividend of approximately 50% to 55% to anyone who has taken up all the share options in the period between 1950 and 1970. f ask honourable members to compare these facts and tell me why trade unionists in Australia should not go on strike in protest against this Budget, why the trade unions in Australia should not be demanding more wages, and why Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, should not be going into the arbitration court and demanding from the court or from industry increased wages for the workers and an improvement in their standard of living. 
It must be remembered that in 1950 the price of steel plates from BHP was $37.50 per ton, and today the price is $99.68 per ton, yet not on any occasion did this company go to any arbitration court or lo this Government to seek permission to increase the price of steel. What effect did the latest increase in the price of steel have on the ordinary man in the street? When he went to buy a new Holden motor car - the most popular car on the road today - after BHP decided in February of this year to increase the price of steel by S3 per ton, he found that it would cost him another $24 for a standard Holden, another S25 for a special Holden and another $30 for a Premier Holden. This is what happens when BHP increased the price of its steel. When a person went to buy a washing machine or a refrigerator or any appliance in which BHP steel was used, he found that the price had been automatically increased because of this company's action. It has no consideration for this country. All it is concerned about is profit, and as far as I am concerned, I support the ACTU. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Newcastle respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold 
Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969. the majority of Australian citizens warn censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to' preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as m duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on this point of the sitting time, it is obvious that a considerable number of members are confused on the position. 
I beg the pardon of the House. It is obvious that a number of members are confused on the length of time to be available for members to speak. Honourable members should have sufficient time to examine the subject. Most important of all, the longer we take to debate this subject of the length of time members are to be permitted to speak, the less time will be available for the adjournment debate. I know that 2 hours ago, 6 names were on  Mr Speaker's  list of members who wish to speak on the adjournment motion tonight. If each of those members took up his allotted 10 minutes, 60 minutes debating time would be involved. The hour available normally for the adjournment debate will be gone before 12 o'clock when  Mr Speaker  will vacate the Chair. I am opposed to this debate continuing further now. It should be taken up from this point tomorrow in the time which is set aside for debate. The time for debate on the adjournment motion should not be interfered with. 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary no;I, think the noes have it 
The ayes have it. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wilis  (Mr Bryant)  which requires that at least onethird of the total number of members shall be present when a decision is being arrived at. I have bad a look at the amendment which was circulated by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  and I was tempted to move it myself. But if we were to move that half the number of honourable members should be present at all times, it could well mean that the House would become unworkable, because all that the Opposition would have to do would be to send one honourable member in to take a division while the remainder stayed outside. As the matter stands at the present time, the Government would need to have only about 3 members away and no business could be put through the House. We are not dealing with this matter as Government and Opposition; we are dealing with it as individuals. It is not my desire as an individual to place this House in a position where it would be impracticable or impossible to put the business through. If the Government has the numbers in the House it has the right to bring legislation forward and accept responsibility for it. It is our responsibility as an Opposition to oppose legislation whenever we think it should be opposed and to amend it whenever we think it should be amended, if we have the numbers to do so. So I feel that the proposition that has been put forward by the honourable member for Wills is a sound and logical one. 
I suggest that we should have a look at the numbers in the House. I am not talking about the honourable members who are in this chamber at the moment; I am talking about those members who are available to vote. On the last vote that was taken the numbers were 43 to 27. It was not a vote of Government and Opposition; it was an individual vote. The facts are that out of 125 members only 72 voted in a division a few moments ago. We sat in this place a few weeks ago and debated for some hours the question of whether the House should continue to operate on the 3-day week - Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - or whether we should introduce a 4-day week. I ask: What is the result of the introduction of a 4-day week? I was severely castigated by one honourable member because of my attitude in voting for the 3-day week. I attended on 38 days in the last session of Parliament; the man who criticised me attended on 23 days. That honourable member voted for a 4-day sitting week. He has not been sighted in this place all this week. 
I will not tell the House who it was. Honourable members can look that up in Hansard. I have been waiting. I do not forget, or forgive. Let us look at the attendance of honourable members in this place. If honourable members want a 4-day sitting week, let them spend the 4 days here. When the House rises - as it will this afternoon in 50 minutes time - that is the time for honourable members to leave. If honourable members believe that we should have a sitting week of 3 days, that is what we should have. 
I did not vote for the reduction of the size of the quorum from one-third to onefifth of the total number of members. I think that one-third is a reasonable number to have in this place at all times. I remind honourable members of the situation on 12th June 1970, the last day on which the House sat before the winter recess. The House rose for that recess, having concluded its business, at 7.27 p.m. At that stage, I could quite easily have called for a division on 2 measures before the House. My Party was in opposition to 2 Bills that were introduced. On behalf of the Opposition I was in charge of the debate on 1 of those Bills. I did not call for a division at that time for the simple reason that 1 knew that a quorum of members was not present and I was not prepared to have the provisions of the legislation deferred for 2 months and run the risk of depriving the dependants of persons who might have been killed in any air fatality during that period of an additional compensation payment of $15,000. The situation was that not even one-third of the number of members of this House was present and I did not call for a vote on the measures under discussion. 
I do not think that it is too much to ask honourable members to stay here while the Parliament is in session. All that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills requests is that one-third of our membership- 42 members - remain here to vote on a Bill. 
Yes, 42 members out of 125 members. I thank the honourable member for Barton for his interjection. Is this too much to ask? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - We are in the Committee stage of the consideration of the House of Representatives (Quorum of Members) Bill. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Deakin, I point out that, whilst the House has decided that a quorum shall be one-fifth of the total membership of this House, the honourable member for Wills is asking that no measure be carried unless one-third of the membership of this House is present to vote. I think that is a reasonable safeguard. As I said in my earlier remarks, I think that a quorum requirement of onehalf could create a situation in which, because of the action of whichever party was in opposition, the business of the House could not be proceeded with. I think that the proposition from the honourable member for Wills is a fair and reasonable one. I hope that honourable members will carry it. They will if they are fair dinkum and believe that members are attending to their duties here. 
At the end of the clause add the following proviso: 
Provided thai if it appears on the report by the tellers of a division of the House that onethird of the whole number of Members is not present, no decision of the House shall be considered to have been arrived at by such division.'. 
Does this mean that two-thirds of the whole number of members must be present? If so, I feel that the honourable member for Wills will be seeking leave to alter the amendment moved by him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I point out to the honourable member for Adelaide that it is not for the 
Chair to interpret the meaning of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - It appears to me that the wording is clear enough. As T understand the amendment of the honourable member for Wills onethird,  42  of the total number, have to be present. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It simply means that if  42  members are not present there can be no decision of the House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  That is the way I read it and the way I understood the honourable member for Wills to present it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - The honourable member for Wills has already moved that the provision be amended from one-half to one-third. I think he made himself quite clear to the Committee. 
It is with regret that I raise a matter, but I feel it is a matter that should be raised in this Parliament because, although it relates to only one instance, it applies to the broader field of tourist bus traffic as a whole. The matter to which I wish to refer is a tragic accident on 13th August at 3.30 a.m. when a Cobb &amp; Co. bus crashed off the road some 11 miles south of Bulahdelah killing the driver and 3 servicemen. I believe that another one of the servicemen in the bus passed away later on. So all told 5 men lost their lives in the accident. 
I would like honourable members to gain some impression of the circumstances associated with this accident. The accident occurred on a wide open bend which it would have been possible for a vehicle to comfortably negotiate at 70 miles an hour. As I stated, it occurred at 3.30 a.m. at a time when the temperature was pretty low and when, I would say, all the men in the bus were asleep. From the information that I have - and I know that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who is sitting at the table, has a report on the accident - it is obvious that everyone in the bus would have been asleep. 
I have a few facts and figures which may be of interest to honourable members. After the bus left the road it travelled approximately 84 yards before it came to rest. For 61 yards of that distance it travelled on its side after rolling over. It passed over a tree stump some 3 feet in diameter and still travelled another 15 yards. This will give some indication of the circumstances associated with this accident. I have seen the bus and the whole of one side, where the men would have been sitting in their seats, has been ripped out. 
It is with no sense of satisfaction that I raise this matter but in the hope that a similar accident will not occur. No-one takes any delight in raising such a matter in this place. I would like the Minister for the Army to advise honourable members, including myself, why that bus was transporting members of the forces - I believe both national servicemen and permanent servicemen were on the bus - at half-past three in the morning. In my humble opinion, that would be the worst possible time for anyone to travel. Human beings should be asleep in bed at that time. It is the natural time for a person to sleep. Yet the Army saw fit to transport young men at that time. I would like the Minister to deal with this aspect. I do not want to say any more about it because it was with a great deal of reluctance that I raised the matter. 
I refer now to the manner in which these tourist buses operate on the roads and to the apparent lack of any control over the bus companies. The drivers seem to be a law unto themselves. They operate under all kinds of circumstances. I wish to bring to the attention of people who may be interested what happened to me. At approximately 1.30 a.m. on 1st August, as is my custom on regular occasions, I was travelling along another section of the road to whiCh 1 referred earlier I was accompanied by my wife. I moved out to overtake a Cobb and Co. bus. After I passed the bus I said to my wife: 'Did you notice what speed I was doing?' She said: T do not know what speed you were doing, but you were going pretty fast'. I said: 'For your information, I was doing 78 miles per hour by the time I passed that bus'. These buses are supposed to travel at a maximum speed of  SO  miles an hour in a derestricted area. If the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  who is trying to interject, wishes to say something he should say it instead of leaning back against his seat and cackling. 

 Mi CHARLES JONES - I pulled out to overtake this bus. I was in the middle of the road. He accelerated and went with me. By the time I passed him, I quite openly and frankly admit that I was travelling at 78 miles an hour. This bus had people in it. That is what I am concerned about. I am concerned about people. The honourable member may not be concerned about people but I am. Travelling on State highways one continually sees passenger buses travelling at speeds in excess of 60 miles an hour. There is no systematic checking of buses. Heavy transports carrying freight have to stop at check points periodically. Their log books are examined regularly. By having to call in at the various check points, someone has them under observation. These buses have no check points at which they have to stop. They are exempted from calling in at check points. The only time their log books are checked is when a police Officer stops them on the road to check their books. 
I shall quote to you what a police officer said to me recently when 1 was making inquiries about the accident to which I have referred. What he said had nothing to do with that accident, but related to another accident which involved a Redline bus. The driver admitted that he had made  a  false entry in the log book. He stated that bis company had instructed him to make false entries in the log book. When the police made inquiries of the company concerned, it denied having issued such instructions. The New South Wales Police Department did not proceed further. Honourable members should bear in mind one fact: The driver admitted making the false entry in the book. The thing which concerns me is that the men driving these buses, in Accordance with the New South Wales Motor Traffic Act, are able to drive for 5  boors  before they get a break of half an hour, then travel another 5 pours before they get another break of half  m  hour. After driving another 2 hours they have to stop. These are the circumstances under which the Department of the Army is permitting its servicemen to be carried at ungodly hours such as 3.30 a.m. Those are the points that I would like clarified. I believe it is time that the New South Wales Police Force and other police forces took action against the companies. 
I refer to a statement released by Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers who attended  a  meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Port Moresby on 10th July of this year. I have not the time to quote all of it, so 1 will just quote  a  couple of paragraphs. It states: 
 All Minis ten: agreed with the serious concern expressed about the road worthiness of tourist coaches in a paper presented to the meeting by. the New South Wales Minister. The item was raised following a number of serious accidents involving long distance tourist buses in which a number of people were killed and injured. 
The 'Canberra News' of Friday, 3rd July, reporting on  a  fatality caused by a bus here in Canberra stated: 
A Redline bus which hit and lulled an elderly Canberra man had defective brakes, Canberra Coroner's Court was told today. Police said the bus was not capable of stopping within the limits laid down by the Australian Motor Vehicle Standards Committee. 
These are the type of buses which the Department of the Army is permitting servicemen to be carried in at the time 1 referred to and which I consider to be most unsatisfactory. If these men are to be transported in buses they should at least be transported at  a  time when people can reasonably be expected to keep awake, and that is in daylight hours and not around midnight or in the early hours of the morning in circumstances which I consider are most unsatisfactory and conducive to accidents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did a Pan American Boeing 707 jet aircraft crash after an abortive take-off at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport on December 1, 1969. 
Was this near-fatal accident caused by (a) loss of power in the two engines on the port wing when seagulls were sucked into the engines or (b) the aircraft being seriously overloaded. 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation inquired into the cause of this accident: If so, when will the result of the inquiry be announced. 
First of all may I register my protest at the failure of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to make available to honourable members a copy of the annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation? 1 lodged this complaint last year during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. I regret that I have to make this complaint again. I oft times wonder how the Minister thinks honourable members can debate and discuss the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, without having at their disposal, for a reasonable time to allow them to study it, a copy of the annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation. I trust that the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation will convey my objection to him. 
One very important thing is happening in civil aviation today which is causing everyone a considerable amount of concern and which has cost about $50m in loss of aircraft. I hope and trust that no lives will be lost, although at the moment a considerable number of people has been detained. I refer to the recent hijacking in the Middle East. What concerns me is the complacent, 'it can't happen here' attitude being adopted by the Department of Civil Aviation and by the Minister. On 9th June in this place we debated a Bill dealing with hijacking. Its purpose was the ratification of the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, held in Tokyo in 1963. The Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Bill passed through this place on 9th June this year. I had a question lined up to ask the Minister last Tuesday, but unfortunately a member of the Government directed a question which included enough of mine to make my question worthless. 
What concerns me is the answer that was given by the Minister to the question directed to him by the honourable member asking what action was being taken by Qantas to safeguard the passengers who travel on their aircraft and on aircraft in general. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
We have noted that the United Nations Security Council has condemned very strongly these acts and the perpetrators of them. We also stand ready to attend, if required, any special meetings which may be called or held when the United Nations General Assembly meets shortly. 
He went on further to say: 
Within Australia our domestic laws are suitable and adequate to deal with the situation and severe penalties can be applied not only for this type of act but also for other acts associated with interference with aviation generally. So I can assure the House that the Government is aware of this problem and is taking every possible action at the present time to deal with it. 
Yes, I read the reference to the International Civil Aviation Organisation and to what is taking place. The situation is like the old story: Before you can have hare pie you have first got to catch your hare. Before a penalty can be imposed on these hijackers we have to catch them. The real problem concerning all the countries that have signed the Convention is catching the hijackers. The Minister for Civil Aviation conveyed very little in answering 3 questions which were directed to him in the Senate. He gave less information than the former Minister for Civil Aviation. What concerns me and what I want to know is: What is Qantas doing and what is the Government doing to safeguard the passengers who are travelling on Qantas aircraft? Surely the Government does not think for one moment that hijacking cannot happen here. Qantas aircraft fly over almost identical routes to the aircraft that have been hijacked, so there is no reason to think for one second that we will be immune - that we have some special dispensation from the hijackers so that they will nol touch any Australian aircraft and the passengers who travel on them. I refer not only to Qantas but to the other airlines operating out of Australia. I want to know what the Government is doing and what positive action is being taken to prevent, as far as is humanly possible, Australian aircraft and aircraft leaving Australia for overseas carrying Australian passengers from being hijacked. The American Government has taken some positive action by putting security guards on their aircraft. The Israeli and Ethiopian airlines also have security guards operating on their airliners. I ask whether this is one of the things that the Minister meant when he said in his reply that this Government is taking action to prevent hijacking. If it is, let us hear about it. At least let the Parliament and the people of Australia who are travelling on airlines today know what is happening. 
What action is being taken by the Department of Civil Aviation at the airports to apprehend people who intend to hijack aircraft? I would like some definite answers from the Minister. I know the Minister for National Development, who is sitting at the table, is well versed in matters of civil aviation and would know what is happening. I would like him to tell the Committee what is happening and what preventive action the Government is taking. I know it is a complex question that has all the governments of the world worried. The only apparent action by Australia has been to sign a convention on hijacking. When the Minister answered a question last Tuesday he gave the impression that Australia had already signed the convention. My understanding is that our signature to that convention did not become operative until last Sunday night. Why did it take us from 9th June until last Sunday night, a couple of months, to ratify the agreement? I would like something positive from the Government, particularly from the Minister for National Development, about the measures that are being taken by this Government to counter the possible hijacking of Australian aircraft. What action is being taken at airports to prevent firearms from being taken on board or to prevent explosives being place on board aircraft so that they can be blown up in flight? What we are really concerned about is what happens to the hijackers when they take over and what directions have been given to Qantas crews. 
In the limited time available to us to debate the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I wish to raise the accident involving a Boeing aircraft at KingsfordSmith Airport on 1st December 1969. 1 placed on notice a question on this matter. I do not want to waste time by referring to the question but I did not receive a reply until 18th September, last Friday. I received at the same time a copy of the accident investigation report. One of the things which concerns me is that when these investigations are made into accidents involving in some cases loss of life or, as in this case, just damage to an aircraft running into a considerable amount, members get an opportunity to debate the report only in the adjournment debate late at night or in the debate on the Estimates. 
There are just a few things to which 1 would like to refer. First of ali, why has ii taken so long to carry out an investigation into this accident and what is the Government doing to try to remedy some of the things referred to in the accident investigation report? It is obvious - this is contained in the report - the aircraft took off overloaded to the extent of some 6.800 lb. In other words it was overloaded by in excess of 3 tons. This is a serious breach of regulations. This is a serious accident. The explanation for the overloading is that one of the hydrometers was faulty and that this resulted in the aircraft taking on 6,800 lb more fuel than was planned. The permissible take-off gross weight was 303,100 lb. The planned take-off gross weight was 302,748 lb. These figures show that there was a margin of only 352 lb between the permissible take-off weight and the planned take-off weight. So the all up weight of that aircraft was pretty close to the permissible maximum. The actual take-off gross weight was 309,560 lb, which was 6,812 lb more than the planned weight. I think the Department has to give us some answers as to what remedial action it is taking to prevent similar occurrences. The accident investigation committee arrived at 12 conclusions. I am concerned with the third conclusion. It states: 
The aircraft was inadvertently loaded 6,800 lb in excess of the flight planned weight, primarily as a result of u of a defective hydrometer. 
What is the Department of Civil Aviation doing to ensure that a faulty hydrometer will not in future result in an aircraft being overloaded to the extent of 6,800 lb? Admittedly things have to go wrong sometimes. When an aircraft is travelling at over 100 knots and passes through  a  flock of pigeons the captain has to make  a  split second decision whether to abort the take-off or to keep going. We never know whether the decision made is the right decision or the wrong decision, in this case if the captain made the right decision we will never know. If he made the wrong decision once again we will never know because we will never know whether, if that aircraft had become airborne, it could have kept going. From the inquiry it would appear that the captain probably made an error of judgment in deciding  to  abort the take-off. It appears that he could have gone on with it. I am not critical nf his decision. I always think it is better to err on the side of safety than to take a risk, i have no comments io make about what the captain did on that occasion, but I am concerned that an aircraft can be overloaded to the extent that this aircraft was overloaded because of a defective hydrometer. 
What is the Department of Civil Aviation doing about conclusion No. 8 which states: 
The effective point of commencement of take-off was displaced some 320 feet from the threshold as a result ot the rolling start technique employed from a side entry to the runway together with progressive application of thrust. 
What  will  the Government do about this? Is it accepted as a safe procedure? If it is a safe procedure, why was it referred to in the conclusions? If it is not a safe procedure, what is being done to prevent this type of take-off? I would like some answers from the Minister on that point. The last conclusion to which I want to refer is conclusion No. 9, It states: 
The head wind component encountered by the aircraft was significantly less than that forecast and that used in the take-off computations. 
According to this inquiry there was a late change in the weather conditions. There was a change in the wind, in both velocity and direction. Are the pilots advised of any serious change in wind velocity or direction when their aircraft are on the verge of taking off, particularly when they are working on a margin of error as close as the 352 lb I mentioned earlier in the computed all up take-off weight? As I mentioned, the aircraft had a planned take-off weight only 352 lb less than the maximum permissible take-off weight. 
In view of the fact that we do not get an opportunity to debate these reports in the Parliament I now ask the Department of Civil Aviation to provide some definite answers as to whether it considers the performance of that aircraft was satisfactory and whether it proposes to take any remedial action to prevent such an accident occurring again. I would also like to know what the Government is doing about preventing the hijacking of Australian aircraft. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has R. W. Miller and Co. Pty Ltd over recent years made application to the Australian Shipbuilding Board to build three 60,000- ton tankers for the carriage of crude oil and/ or petroleum products around the Australian coast? Has approval been given for the building of 2 of these tankers? Why has the Government delayed approving the third tanker? Will the Government give an assurance that the application by this Australian owned company will not be prejudiced in order to meet the wishes of substantially foreign owned oil operators? 
I wish to refer to a matter which I consider to be of major importance to the transport of crude oil on the Australian coast and to stability in the Australian shipbuilding industry. The matter to which I refer is the manner in which this Government, in my opinion, has deliberately stalled so as to stop a completely Australian owned company from establishing an Australian tanker fleet whereby the Australian oil industry could be completely free and independent of foreign ownership. The company to which I refer is R. W. Miller &amp; Co. Pty Ltd which, in April 1969, placed an order for the 62,000 dead weight ton tanker, the 'Amanda Miller', with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla. Unfortunately, earlier this year that ship was almost completely destroyed by fire. On 23rd April this year the same company, R. W. Miller &amp; Co. Pty Ltd, inquired of the Australian Shipbuilding Board about the possibility of building an identical sister ship to the 'Amanda Miller'. Within 7 days of making their original inquiry of the Australian Shipbuilding Board, on 30th April, they placed a firm order for an identical sister ship to the 'Amanda Miller'. The object obviously was that, by having 2 ships built in the one mould, the company would save a lot of money in the development of the laying out of the ship and that by providing the men on the job with knowledge of the mistakes they might make on the first ship they would be enabled to avoid these mistakes on the second order. The result when building 2 ships is that invariably the second ship is considerably cheaper than the first one. It is obvious that for this reason the company placed an order for the second ship on 30th April. 
Some 4 days later, on 4th May, the company approved of calling tenders for the second tanker. It was not until 7th July that the Australian Shipbuilding Board approved of calling tenders for an additional tanker. About 10 days later R. W. Miller &amp; Co. Pty Ltd found out that Evans Deakin &amp; Co. Pty Ltd were not submitting a tender for the second tanker, the sister ship to the 'Amanda Miller', for one obvious reason, that Evans Deakin realised that this being its first ship it could not possibly compete with BHP which had all the layout of the 'Amanda Miller' and the job experience. After all, BHP are actually building 2 'Amanda Millers', because the first one was almost completely destroyed. I can understand Evans Deakin's position. The company said that it could not possibly compete and would not submit a tender. 
Millers, having been advised that Evans Deakin was not prepared to tender for the second ship, obviously realised that it would get greater advantage if Evans Deakin tendered and that it would not get a competitive tender by calling tenders for one ship. Millers instructed the Australian Shipbuilding Board to call tenders for 2 ships. This would give Evans Deakin some advantage - not complete advantage - over BHP at Whyalla inasmuch as Evans Deakin would have the advantage of building 2 ships. One development and one layout would fit the 2 ships. Evans Deakin would be job wise, as BHP should be, having built 2 'Amanda Millers' and having an opportunity to build a third. Unfortunately the Australian Shipbuilding Board, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  or the Government delayed. The Minister, who is at the table, can best answer this question when he has the opportunity to replying after the 10 minutes allotted to me have expired.  I  would be pleased to hear from the Minister why the Government dilly-dallied so long in calling tenders, in placing an order and in allowing this company to place an order for 2 tankers. 
In the meantime the Caltex-Sleigh people, on 22nd August of this year, asked the Australian Shipbuilding Board to call tenders for a tanker almost identical to the Amanda Miller' - the same design but a little longer. If a little longer ship is built, so long as all the other features of the original ship are retained, the builders can get the advantage of the same layout, the same moulds and the experience gained on building the first ship. It is obvious that Caltex-Sleigh. an overseas owned shipping company also tied up with oil, is trying to get the advantages of the 'Amanda Miller'. 
Caltex has quite a substantial interest in it. There is a considerable amount of foreign money in Sleigh's ownership. In any case, Caltex is not an Australian company, as R. W. Miller's is. 
The Minister will have his opportunity to reply,  r  have not enough time as it is. Not only has Caltex-Sleigh asked the Australian Shipping Board to call tenders for the ship but there is also a move afoot for Howard Smith to be given permission to build a tanker. The same could be said about the time when the Shell Company was given permission to bring the 'T.T. Sollon' on to the coastal trade. It was a 70,000-odd ton tanker. The company put up no bond. It did not have to pay any duty. At the end of 3 years it could make up its mind whether it wanted a replacement ship or whether the ship would go off the coastal trade . It is obvious to me that there is a very strong move by the Government to take notice of the oil companies once again. They want to create an over tonnage in ships on the coastal trade. When Shell, Caltex-Sleigh or someone else with ships operating on the coast says that there is an over tonnage and they cannot get cargoes for their ships all they do is take them off the coastal trade for a while and put them into their overseas pools. They are out of trouble. The Australian Government is not giving a fair go to the Australian owned company R. W. Miller. 
The position is the same as that in 1966 when over tonnage was created on the coastal trade. The Government believed every lying word that was told to it by the oil companies in Australia. Millers broke the stranglehold on the carriage of petroleum on the Australian coast. When R. W. Miller broke the stranglehold that the foreign owned shipping combines and the oil companies had, it brought tankers on to the coastal trade. It forced the Government to accept the company and forced the Government to make the oil companies give orders. As a result of over tonnage the company was forced to sell the 'Miller Canopus' at almost scrap price. What we have to guard against is that the Government is not taken in again by the oil companies. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in late December last year or in early January this year the oil companies told Miller that they had no work for that company; there was no cargo to carry. What has been the position? Already this year over 1 million tons of oil has been carried on the coastal trade in foreign owned bottoms. That excludes the tonnage that has been carried by R. W. Miller. Yet in December 1969 and January 1970 the oil companies said that they had no work for Miller's tankers. It could well have meant that Miller had to get rid of his 2 tankers and sack the Australian crews, and that today we could have had oil being carried around the Australian coast exclusively by foreign owned bottoms. 
That is what has to be avoided. The Government should not take notice of what foreign oil companies say is the tonnage required to carry crude oil around the coast. The Minister is aware of the facts and knows the kinds of ships that will be required. The Government should approve the building in Australian shipyards of approximately a quarter of a million tons of tankers to be operated around the Australian coast. I ask, and press, the Government to give a preference to Australian owned and Australian built ships and to have nothing whatever to do with foreign owned ships. It is all right to talk about foreign currency, but preference should be given to Australian built, Australian manned and Australian owned ships and no encouragement should be given to foreign owned companies to bring their ships onto the Australian coast. It is up to the Government to look after Australian workers and Australian industries. This is what we are asking the Government to do. I will be pleased to hear from the Minister some explanation why Miller has been forced into the position this year of having to wait to have ships built. He had firm orders in the hands of the Australian Shipbuilding Board but the Government, I believe by reason of manoeuvring, has allowed foreign owned companies to come into the field and to place orders so as to outmanoeuvre Miller so that they will get their ships on the Australian coast and will carry Australian cargoes in foreign owned bottoms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft have been purchased overseas each year by (a) Qantas, (b) Trans-Australia 
Airlines, (c) Ansett Transport Industries, (d) the Department of Civil Aviation and (e) Commuter Airlines, and what was the cost in each case. 
I address a question to the Postmaster-General. Has the Postmaster-General's Department approached the domestic airlines for a 29 per cent reduction in airmail carriage rates? If this were agreed to would it result in a reduction from 73.2c per ton mile to 52c per ton mile? How would these rates compare with those on international routes? In view of the recent exorbitant increase in postal charges, what grounds are there for demanding this substantial reduction in mail carrying rates? Can the Minister assure me that the present conflict between his Department and the airlines will not extend the time for mail deliveries to country centres and for interstate mail? 
The 4 Bills that the House is now debating are the Excise Tariff Bill 1970, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 1) 1970, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2) 1970 and the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1970. One would assume that this debate would be quite a mixed grill when one realises that the 4 Bills propose increases in the excise on many items including, to mention a few, wine, tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, diesel fuel, kerosene, aviation fuel, refined spirit, gasoline and turpentine. One could go into minute detail concerning the numerous items that are affected. Various members of the Opposition will deal with the items individually. 
The proposed increase in excise on these commodities is an indication of the Government's policy of imposing taxation on people irrespective of their ability to pay. This Government refuses to use the fairest and most equitable form of taxation, namely, income tax, and resorts to this method of hidden taxation whereby people are taxed irrespective of their ability to pay. The person on a fixed income, the pensioner and the person on a low income still have to pay the increases that are now being charged on tobacco, cigarettes and items of this nature. I do not smoke, but there are still poor unfortunates in the community who do. I notice that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is smiling, but 1 am not bigoted in any way. These unfortunate people, irrespective of their income, will be required to pay the increases. As 1 have said, this is a clear indication of the Government's policy of imposing this form of taxation. 
I intend dealing with the 3c a gallon increase on diesel fuel in its various forms - petrol, gasoline, call it what we will - and aviation fuel. The Opposition regards these measures as inflationary. The Government has not suggested any specific proposal for the additional revenue. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in introducing his Budget said that during 1970-71 it was estimated that $63 m would be received from the increased excise, and for a full year $79.6tn. This will be no more than a source of revenue for the Treasury for Consolidated Revenue. The Government does not propose increasing its allocation to the States for road construction purposes. Some 12 months ago we debated the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement which provided for an allocation of $ 1,252m to the States over a 5-year period. There was no mention in the Minister's second reading speech or in the Treasurer's Budget Speech that any of this additional revenue would be allocated to the States. During the next 4 years this additional revenue will amount to about S340m. If this money were to be allocated for road works the Opposition would have more sympathy with what is being done and with the levying of this taxation. 
The airline industry will now be required to pay an increase of 3c a gallon on its fuel. If this were to be taken into consideration in assessing air navigation charges and assisting the running of civil aviation we would be prepared to look at it in a practical and constructive way. These measures, in our opinion, do nothing for the industry except add fuel to the present inflationary fire. Prices arc increasing at an alarming rate. According to the figures of the Commonwealth Statistician they have increased by about 3 per cent in the last 12 months. I do not think that any members of the Government could convince the housewife that the cost of living has increased by only 3i per cent. 1 am certain that no-one on our side of the House could convince her. 
It has been claimed that transport costs form up to 23 per cent of our gross national product. I have some figures on this taken from a very reliable magazine. The cost of road transport represents about 9 per cent of our gross national product. So by adding 3c a gallon to the price of fuel we are adding, as I said a moment ago, to the inflationary fire which is raging at an alarming rate. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service: 

<graphic href="070131197010136_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures disclose that in 1969-70 revenue received from customs and excise duty collected on motor spirit and automotive diesel fuel was $291,300,000 and that the estimated amount for 1970-71 is 5372,800,000. From this table I took out some figures of my own. I have taken the 5-year period of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, to which I made reference a moment ago. Working on the average of the increasein customs and excise revenue collected in the previous 10 years, which worked out at 8 per cent, I estimated that for the 5 years, 1969-74, the amount of revenue received will be $1,71 lm. Under the Agreement $ 1,252m will be allocated to the States over that 5-year period, which will leave a surplus of about $459m for the Treasury. 
The Government has not been satisfied with this figure. It has imposed an additional 3c a gallon on the price of fuel. I have worked on the Government's estimate of $79.6m per annum and applied an 8 per cent increase per annum because this has been the average increase over the past 10 to 1 1 years. Incidentally, the last increase represented approximately an 8.2 per cent over the previous year. So my figures were at least right for the first year and the Government's forecast of 5 per cent was wrong. Working on that basis I estimated that in the next 4 years the Government will receive about $341 m from this increased revenue, which will leave the Treasury with a surplus of $800m at the end of the 5-year period of the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, assuming that we get no further increase in the petrol tax, as it is commonly called. I think it is worthy of emphasis that the Government will at the end of another 4 years have a surplus of $800m after it has allocated$1, 252m to the States during the term of the current Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. One would believe that the Australian road system today was in first class condition; that we had no worries; that we had a very low accident rate; and that very few people were being killed on the roads today. But the reverse is the position and when one looks at the figures one finds that we have one of the worst traffic accident rates of any country. 
New Zealand has a traffic accident rate of 5.2 persons per 10.000 registered vehicles, the United States of America 5.5, the United Kingdom 6.1, Canada 7.2 and we have the proud record of 8.1 per 10.000 registered vehicles. On those figures it must he obvious that the Government should be doing something about the situation. 
Yes. 1 placed question No. 871 on notice and on 4th June 1970 I received a reply from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  which discloses the alarming fact that road accidents in Australia are on the increase. The total number of road traffic accidents involving casualties in 1959 was 43,051. In 1966 it had risen to 55,538, in 1967 to 57,253, in 1968 to 58,759 and for the first 9 months to September 1969 it was 45,930. Then we come to the number of road traffic accidents involving casualties resulting from collisions between vehicles and this table shows that the number rose from 21,589 in 1959 to 31,232 in 1968, which was the last full year for which statistics were available. That is quite an alarming figure when one realises that in that short period there has been an increase of more than 10.000 accidents a year. In the same period the number of people killed in road traffic accidents involving casualties rose from 2,321 in 1959 to 3,382 in 1968. Yet the Government sees fit to take this money - to levy an additional excise of 3c a gallon on fuel - and then do nothing with it except pay it into the Treasury and in this way build up its revenue. As I said earlier there is any amount of evidence of the need to do something about the accident rate. There is a great need to plan not only our urban transport system but also our national highway system. I have a statement here which 1 think is worth quoting. It comes from a publication of the Department of Main Roads of June 1 968 and it stated: 
It is of interest to know that on rural highways 2 or more vehicles are involved in 59 per cent of all accidents whereas on the tollway- 
That is a reference to the NewcastleSydney tollway-  only 12 per cent of the accidents involved 2 or more vehicles. 
So it is easy to see what would happen to the accident rate if we had a decent road system. Anybody who has travelled over the Newcastle-Sydney tollway would know that this is an excellent piece of engineering and is an excellent road to travel on. This road should be the basis of the planning of a national main highway system which would eliminate this unnecessary carnage on our roads which last year involved the death of some 3.000 people. The need is there when we see the example of 59 per cent of accidents involving 2 or more vehicles on rural roads and only 12 per cent on this tollway. The Government should be trying to reduce the accident rate in this way and using this money to build a national road system. Not only is there a need to plan a national road system but also there is a need to develop our city and suburban roads and our trunk roads. 
I mentioned earlier the cost or! transport to our country and the inflationary effect this cost has on the economy as a whole. One can see the serious effect this cost has on our gross national product when one reads statements such as that made by the Managing Director of Mayne Nickless Ltd who said that every minute a truck was delayed by traffic between the points of loading and unloading the cost was between 5c and 10c. This statement was made almost 2 years ago. These delays are having a serious effect. In our ports and al our railheads goods are being loaded into containers. In a matter of a few minutes huge containers are lifted off ships and are put onto trucks or vice versa. This is the easiest part of the transaction. The trucks carrying these containers can be held up for hours between the seaboard and the place of delivery in a city. This is where transport problems are adding a huge cost to the Australian economy. This is where the money collected should be used and put to good advantage. This is where we could do something about assisting the economy by keeping costs down. 
The Government talks about keeping costs down. However, in reality it does very little about this problem. At present grandiose plans are being prepared by various State planning authorities to build huge highways within the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. A great urban transport system was prepared for Adelaide but 1 think this project will be put into the archives somewhere. The facts are that State planners are planning internal road systems within capital cities while at the same time they are doing very little about urban transport. They are doing very little about the need for urban public transport by encouraging people. to travel from their homes to their places of employment by such a system. Honourable members on this side of the House would welcome some of the money that has been collected being made available to public transport authorities to assist them in keep ing their costs down. Perhaps the Government could eliminate the need for these authorities to pay taxation; if need be, the Government could make a grant to them. After all, the road systems can easily be improved by reducing the number of vehicles travelling on them. The problem of urban transport could be assisted quite considerably if the number of vehicles travelling on our roads was reduced by encouraging people to use public transport. 
I have some figures which indicate some interesting facts. For instance, a train in an urban area depending on its length and type, can carry between 40,000 and 60,000 passengers an hour. The Melbourne Swanston Street transport system has transported passengers at the rate of 12,000 an hour. Motor cars travelling in single lane traffic can transport only 2,400 people an hour. Therefore, if we can encourage people to use our rail systems or whichever other form of public transport - be it buses or trams - meets the requirements of a city, this will help considerably to overcome the problem of having to construct huge freeways or tollways within the major cities, and particularly the capital cities, of each State where traffic bogs down. I have informed the House of the statement made by the manager of Mayne Nickless. Similar statements are made by numerous people who are involved in transport today. These people would welcome any move whatever to remove from public roads the large number of motor cars which in the main carry a driver or at best carry only one other passenger. These motor cars are cluttering up traffic and are adding seriously to costs. 
I would like to make one suggestion to the Minister for Customs and Excise who is at the table. 1 suggest that the Government should make a contribution to the public transport system by making it easier and cheaper for people to travel. The Government might have to make some form of tax rebate. The trade union movement and members on this side of the House for years have asked that the cost of travel from home to work should be acceptable as an income tax deduction. An income tax deduction could be granted to people who use public transport. I know that there would be a complaint from people using their private cars. 
The Minister said that he would complain. But this would be one way of getting people to use public transport. These people could be subsidised in many ways. A direct contribution could even be made to them. After all, the Australian Country Party can find any amount of ways to subsidise rural producers. If people could be encouraged to use public transport that would be one way in which we could help the economy as a whole. By using some of this money to improve the public transport system, the need to build the concrete jungles which are springing up in the various cities would be eliminated. While we have our present road transport system it will be necessary to have these concrete jungles. 
Recently when I was overseas I took the opportunity of visiting Los Angeles, a city of about 7 million people, lt has no public transport system. Everyone has to travel from home to their place of employment or other destination by private car, taxi or some similar means of conveyance. 1 believe the city spent $3. 75m trying to develop a public transport system to take people out of private cars and put them into public transport. The city found that it was necessary to do this. If anyone wants to see expressways, tollways or highways of all types - in other words, concrete jungles - that is the place to go. In the middle of the city cars rocket along at 60 and 70 miles an hour. The city has a major transport problem and a major atmospheric pollution problem brought about in the main by the emission of pollutants from motor car exhausts. 1 make a strong plea to the Government to use some of the $340m that it will get over and above what was expected previously, or some of the $800m which I anticipate it will accumulate during the period of the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. Throughout Australia today local government is in serious financial difficulties. A few councils are not in financial difficulties but. in the main, local government throughout the Commonwealth is in serious financial difficulties. So the Government should give some thought to providing additional finance to assist local government to improve the roads which at present do not come within the provisions of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. The people who are using these roads are contributing towards their upkeep by indirect taxation. For each gallon of petrol that they purchase they pay 15.3c in indirect taxation. Many of them use only the ordinary suburban street for which the ratepayer pays 100 per cent of the cost of maintenance. This is one matter to which the Government could give some thought. It could assist local government by making a direct contribution or a direct grant. 
As 1 proved earlier, Australia has one of the worst safety records among the more developed countries. There is a need for the Government to do more detailed planning and to have more detail of the types of roads which can be constructed to prevent accidents. Recently I spoke during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House about a bus capsize on the Newcastle-Bulahdelah Road. Five men were killed in that accident - 4 national servicemen and the driver. The bus went off the road in the early hours of the morning. I am not giving any reason why it went off the road, because the inquiry has not yet been completed. While that road is a good one as roads go today, it was in such a condition that the accident occurred. Similar accidents could be prevented if adequate safety measures were employed by the Government and by road constructing authorities as a whole. 
In the few minutes left to me I shall deal with pollution caused by motor cars. The Government should do as the  President  of the United States of America has given notice that he will do, and that is to indicate to motor car manufacturers and to petrol companies that taxes will not be imposed on any pollutant-free petrol which is produced. The companies can produce such a petrol. It will cost a lot to install the various types of gadgets that the mechanics and engineers are talking about which can be attached to motor cars to prevent the emission of the various pollutants that are harmful to the human race. I will not say how much it will cost because even the engineers themselves cannot make up their minds as to what it will cost. But if a motorist installs one of these gadgets in his car he will be able to buy a type of petrol which will cost less than petrol which contains the various additives that are added to it by the manufacturers for various reasons, such as to make one brand of petrol a bit better than another brand of petrol. This is one matter at which the Government should be looking. There is no doubt that there is a need for it. 
I refer to a statement made by a local government engineer who said that the rate of discharge of air pollutants in the County of Cumberland, which includes Sydney, is as follows: Carbon monoxide, 318,000 tons per annum; total hydrocarbons, 31,800 tons; nitrogen oxides, 10,580 tons; aldehydes, 552 tons; sulphur compounds, 803 tons; organic acids, 218 tons; ammonia, 218 tons and solids, 32 tons per annum. These figures show the amount of air pollutants that are discharged by motor cars. What I have just suggested certainly would be a cheap way to avoid the atmospheric pollution which is being caused at the present time. As I mentioned earlier, the  President  of the United States of America has indicated that he will impose a tax on petrol which contains all these additives. This tax will return SI, 440m to the American Government. This money will be used to eliminate, wherever possible, atmospheric pollution which is caused by motor vehicles. This is something which the Government should consider. 
When it comes to a question of ascertaining just what is emitted by a car, one should take into consideration a few of the facts and figures which were prepared by the Senate Select Committee, on Air Pollution. Under the heading 'Urban Transportation' it said: 
This area requires the most urgent action, but it should not be considered independently of city wide planning. There must be immediate cessation of highway building and parking station developments designed to bring yet more cars into central city areas. Even with the introduction of emission standard the problem will continue to grow if more cars are allowed to arrive in the central city. The congestion of cars also results in stopgo traffic which makes the situation even worse. 
An idling car will raise carbon monoxide from its cruising concentration of 4 per cent to 7 per cent. 
An accelerating car will raise nitrogen oxides from a cruising concentration of 650 ppm to 1050 ppm. 
A decelerating car will raise hydrocarbon levels from 550 ppm (cruising) to 4,400 ppm. 
As I say, these facts and figures were prepared by the Senate Select Committee, not by some outside body. So there is a clear indication of the need for the Government to do something about eliminating, wherever possible, the atmospheric pollution that is being caused in our cities today. The larger the cities grow the greater the pollution to which the people will be subjected. 
I know that a lot of research is being carried out by various people. For example, in America recently a new form of external combustion engine using instead of water, a liquid called Freon, which was used in refrigerators, has been developed by a  Mr Minto  in Florida. He tried to sell the patent to the American automobile industry, but it was not interested in it. The Japanese motor car firm of Datsun purchased the patent, and it is expected that this car will be on the roads in Japan within the next 18 months. Honourable members may say: What have we got to worry about if this car will be on the roads in Japan within 18 months and on the roads in Australia within 2 years?' But it must be remembered that a car has a life of about 10 years. That will mean that for the next 10 years at least we will be loaded with the cars we have now, plus whatever cars come on the market and on the roads when this particular car is made available to the general public. Of course, that is assuming it is within the range of people to buy. For the reasons that I have already outlined, the Opposition proposes to vote against the 4 Bills before the House at the moment. We consider that the various forms of tax that have been imposed on these commodities are unfair and unreasonable. 
 The Opposition does not intend to divide the House on this measure. We have already indicated our position by dividing on the previous Bill. But the Opposition is opposed to this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The Opposition is opposed to this Bill, but once again we do not propose to divide the House on it, having already done so on a previous measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The Opposition opposes the Bill, but we do not propose to divide the House on it, for the reasons I gave previously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the firm of R. W. Miller and Company Pty Ltd in recent years placed an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the construction of tankers for the carriage of petroleum products on the Australian coast. 
If so, when was the order placed with the Australian Shipbuilding Board for each tanker. 
When were la) tenders called and (b) orders placed with shipyards. 
Which shipyard was used in each case. 
The speech we just heard from the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  shows what a hypocritical humbug he is. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I remind the Minister that on 22nd April 1969 he said in regard to information gained through Australian participation in container shipping: 
We can ensure that Australian exporters who pay the freight will receive the protection that this information will confer.  1  remind him that the Leader of the Opposition in reply indicated that: 
The Government's action will bring about a result- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the statement which has been presented by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  is a very sketchy document of the happenings in the containerisation industry over the last 12 months. I did expect that the Minister would have introduced something more detailed, given us some more facts and would have dealt in considerable detail with matters such as that to which he refers on the third page of his printed statement. The Minister states: 
So far as the advantage to Australia of having a window into container costs by virtue of Australian National Line participation, I am equally confident that this will justify itself. 
On the facts contained in this statement certainly no information is being given to this House by the right honourable gentleman which would indicate that the Australian National Line has obtained any information, has any knowledge or that the Government proposes to make available to us any details of what has happened in the container consortium that is operating between Australia and Europe at the prosen! time. 
When the Government decided - the Opposition supported the proposal - that we should acquire a container ship and that we should move into this consortium, we were hopeful and confident that the Government would use its position to bring forward some positive information to this Parliament. We were hopeful that, by this time, the Government would be talcing even stronger steps to enlarge its participation in the overseas container industry. Whilst T have my own feelings on this matter, I think that there are considerable reasons to believe that it can assist the Australian export and import industry, particularly our exports. So, I feel that the Government should be doing something about this matter. 
I am very disappointed to read that all we can get out of the Minister is this sketchy reference to what has brought about the increased freight charges. The thing that the Minister has gone to bat on is the increase in wages, including the increase in seamen's wages, and the increase in stevedoring costs. I have a few figures here which indicate to me that there has not been this huge increase in operating costs as far as wages and the like are concerned. In the limited time that is available to me, I wish to make one reference to waterside workers. The general duty employee in a container terminal in December 1968 received $58.80 per week. That was his flat rate wage. In November 1969, it was increased to $60.60. On 5th May 1970, his wage increased to $63.60. These increases do not represent to me any major or substantial increase in wages for waterside workers. The increase over that period is $4.80 per week or approximately 8 per cent. 
So, I would like the Minister to give as a little more information as to the real position concerning waterside workers. I say this particularly taking into consideration that in the Sydney terminal alone in the last 12 months approximately 1 million tons of cargo in containers were put through by 168 men. If this work had been handled by the conventional method of shipping, approximately 750 to 850 men would have been required. Whilst there may have been a very minute increase in their wages, there certainly has been a very substantial turnover in tonnage per employee on the waterfront when 168 men can handle 1 million tons by the containerisation method when, under the old method, 750 to 850 men were required to handle a similar amount. These are some of the facts that have to be taken into consideration. 
The Minister referred to seamen's wages. All I can say is that on 5th March the salary of an Australian seaman was $5,450 per annum and that included practically everything. On 7th July 1969 a maritime industry allowance of $6 a week v. as granted. This was a flat rate increase and not subject to overtime. On 23rd December 1969 as a result of the national wage case salaries were increased to $5,620 plus the $6 a week maritime industry allowance. On 11th August 1970 salaries were increased to $6,660. When one takes into consideration the fact that a ship of the type of the 'Australian Endeavour' carries about 13 seamen, it will be apparent that wage increases are not having the effect on freight costs which the Minister would have us believe. Once again it is the old story of wages disputes, and the activities of seamen and wharfies bringing about these increases. But when we examine the rates of pay and their effects, I think the Minister has to look somewhere else for his explanation. When we compare the Australian Endeavour', a ship of some 25,000 gross tons and 13 men, with a small ship like the 'Kabbarli', a cargo ship of 2,983 gross tons and 13 to 14 seamen which operates on the west coast, it can be seen that there is quite a substantial difference in the matter of wages. 
At one time the wages of seamen and wharfies did have an important bearing on the cost of handling cargo. But today with mechanisation and huge cranes handling the containers the Minister has to look somewhere else for his reason. I suggest there is somewhere else to look. In the Rockdale report tabled in England in May this year attention was drawn to the fact that shipping heads were to blame for massive losses and that management was holding back the shipping industry. The report alleged that there was bad management in the British shipping industry. The industry had to do something about improving its efficiency and the economies which were available for it to accept. At this point attention was drawn to the fact that the industry had not accepted these opportunities and that bad management was the real cause of loss of profitability in the industry in the United Kingdom. Bearing that in mind,  8  of the  9  ships in this consortium are owned by British interest. This is whe&gt;e we have the overflow and it is acting against the Australian exporter. It is one reason why we find today that freight charges are being increased. The Minister referred to wages and the Tilbury dispute. My understanding of the Tilbury dispute is that a 10 per cent surcharge was added because of the dispute. So the cost of that dispute has been paid for and the dispute is not in existence at the moment. I assume that these increased freight charges are to cover expected increases in costs. The dispute is over; Tilbury is being used.  1  would ask the Minister to be a little consistent. We are aware that the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  are at variance on this subject; there is no unanimity. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport has stated that no justification exists for increases in freights. He made this statement at a Country Party conference in Griffith in June this year. In July he made another very strong and positive statement that the provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act would be invoked against the ship owners. The legislation has been found to be useless as far as the shipping freights are concerned. It is time the Government did something positive about freights and about the managerial policies necessary to bring this industry up to the desired level. As far as Sydney is concerned, my information is that the White Bay terminal is a complete shermozzle as far as the 5-container stack theory is concerned. It is not working and is not doing what was expected of it. Containers are lying there for days on end waiting to be shifted. Even the people associated with it are complaining, as will be seen from today's 'Australian'. Most of the Minister's speech was written last Friday. It had to be rewritten this morning. That is why the statement was presented so late this after-  noon. The report in today's 'Australian' said: 
The managing director of Seatainer Terminals Ltd,  Mr A.  C. Boehme, made a  strong attack at the weekend on 'ill-considered criticisms' of containerisation which he said were both inaccurate and incorrect. 
He went on to say that shippers were leaving their containers at the terminals too long and container terminals were being used as depots. He said that containers would have to be cleared at a much faster rate. My attention has been drawn to the fact that documentation is not keeping pace with containers. Containers are arriving long before the documentation and the result is that containers are lying at the terminals waiting to go through customs. All this is costing money. I do not think Australian exporters should be required to carry this cost. If the shipping industry is inefficient it should be forced to carry the cost of these inefficiences. The Minister as the brain child of the Australian Government's participation in the overseas container consortium should accept some of the responsibility. The responsibility really lies at his door. 1 call on him to do something practical about the problem instead of trying, as is normally done on the Government side, to blame the seamen, the wharfies and high wages. 
There are other things in this statement which need clarification by the Government. One matter that should be dealt with is the effect of containerisation on Australian ports. We have 3 terminal ports in Australia - Melbourne, Fremantle and Sydney. We have 3 feeder ports - Adelaide, Newcastle and Brisbane. Even in the feeder ports there is considerable trouble with regard to the maintaining of containers, and the removal of cargoes, both imports and exports. I know of the huge problem created in Newcastle because of the introduction of containers and the failure of this Government to do something practical and positive. I would like the Minister to give us the facts about what the Government is doing to overcome the problem in the feeder ports and outports of Australia. My colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  will, I hope, have something to say about it as far as Queensland outports are concerned. Labor members from Tasmania have had plenty to say about the problems facing 
Tasmania and its trade. Just because a container ship does not visit a particular port and the containers are transported by rail or feeder ship to the terminal port, that is not the end of the matter. It may be the beginning of the problems associated with that port. Previously conventional ships called at these outports to pick up, for example, wool, frozen meat and other goods, but they did not come only to pick up those cargoes. They came to pick up all the conventional cargo that went through that port. In the case of Newcastle they came to pick up wool as well as mineral sands and the general cargo that was necessary to be taken from Newcastle, the Hunter Valley and the north west areas, whether it be to Europe, Japan or the United States. At the moment the situation with regard to the United States is all right. That is something that has to be worked out by the Government between now and the introduction of containers on the Australian-United States run. 
The same can be said of Tasmanian ports. As I said a moment ago, Tasmanian members have been most critical of the failure of the Government to do something positive about this. We have seen costs loaded on costs. Tasmania has to ship its commodities to Melbourne and pay freight on them, which is not the case with other ports such as the feeder ports I mentioned earlier. At least they pay the difference between what it costs now and what it cost previously to ship from the place of manufacture to the ports. This is placing a very substantia] burden on exporters of beef through Queensland ports. All we can get out of the Minister are a number of visits and statements about what will happen but no practical information as to the effect on freights as far as these ports are concerned. These are the things which are missing from his statement. They are the sorts of things which I had hoped would be included in the statement on containerisation. It is a statement which has obviously been dragged out of the Minister as a result of questions asked last Friday morning by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and myself. The Minister thought that he could get out of it. I hope that this window in this conference will be of some benefit to Australia and not a means of covering up as the 
Minister has used it. I wish to move an amendment to the motion that the House take note of the paper. I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: but deplores the failure of the Government to make available to it ali relevant information on the increases in overseas freights and the future of Australian ports.' 
 I wish to bring forward 2 matters which concern the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  On 13th October I directed to the Postmaster-General a question in which 1 referred to the reduction of 29 per cent in the rate paid for the carriage of mail by domestic airlines. The Postmaster-General said in reply, amongst other things, that of the 2 domestic airlines, the arrangement had been accepted by Trans-Australia Airlines but not accepted by Ansett Airlines of Australia. The implication is that TAA readily agreed to the reduction in the rate and that the Ansett organisation was still negotiating or discussing it. 
I would like the Postmaster-General to table in this Parliament the file of correspondence on this matter between the 2 airlines and his Department so that honourable members would have an opportunity to peruse it. They would be able to see for themselves what transpired in communications with the 2 domestic airlines and for that matter, also what happened in negotiations with Airlines of New South Wales, East-West Airlines and the others. We are aware that apart from East-West Airlines, the rest of them are mainly members of the Ansett organisation. 
I believe that TAA accepted the Government's decision under protest and under duress, for the simple reason that it is a Government authority and for no other reason. The Postmaster-General is not present in the chamber tonight, but honourable members opposite could ask htm to table the file so that we could better understand the bureaucratic manner in which the rate was reduced by the Government by 29 per cent. We could see whether the reduction is justified. If it is justified, we could ask why it was not done much sooner when the' costs of wages, fuel, air navigation charges and other expenses were much less than they are today. If the reduction is justified today, it should have been applied years ago. I should like some explanation from the Postmaster-General as to why it was not reduced some years ago. I ask him to look at these few points and to give me information on them. Most important of all. 1 want the Minister to advise us of the conditions under which TAA accepted the decision. Also, f should like information on the terms which were laid down m regard to the carriage of mail by Ansett because I believe that in no circumstances has Ansett ever accepted the proposition =is fair and reasonable. I believe that this reduction in charges is a typical example of bureaucracy on the part of the Postmaster-General's Department. 
One does not get the opportunity very often to speak in the adjournment debate. Bearing this in mind, I should like to refer also to another matter. On 9th July I wrote to  Mr Wright, Chairman  of the Australian Boradcasting Control Board, and drew his attention to what I considered was a breach of section 116(4.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act. I wrote in the following terms: [ will be grateful if you could answer the following question: 
Was a By-election held in Melbourne on the 20th June 1970 for the Upper House seat of Monash. 
Does Section 116(4.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act prohibit the televising of any election matter after midnight on the Wednesday before an election. 
Did the Board according to custom send a circular- to all Television Stations reminding them of the Monash By-election and Section 116(4.). Was this reminder sent to the ABC. 
Did the Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. J. G. Gorton, MP, hold a Press conference on Thursday, 18th June and was this press conference televised throughout Australia including television stations in Melbourne. 
Did the contents of this press conference contravene Section 1 16 (4.) of - the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
The reply dated 22nd July which I received from  Mr Wright  included a copy of section 116(6.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act. So far as I was concerned my main question was whether the matter I had referred to was political. In reply to my first question  Mr Wright  answered yes. He agreed that a by-election was being held at that time. In answer to my second question  Mr Wright  stated: 
Section 116(4.) of the Act prohibits the televising of election matter as defined in the Act from midnight on the Wednesday preceding an election to the close of the poll. I attach for your information a copy of the definition of election matter in section 116(6.) of the Act. 
My third question to  Mr Wright  was in the following terms: 
Did the Board according to custom send a circular to all Television Stations..... 
To this question  Mr Wright  answered yes. In answer to my fourth question  Mr Wright  stated: 
The Board has not checked as to whether the conference was televised Nation-wide, but is aware that it was televised by some stations in Melbourne. 
In answer to my fifth question he stated: 
Not so far as the Board is aware. If such a question did arise, in connection with a telecast of this kind, you will realise that it could be decided only by the Courts. 
This was in answer to my last question in which I asked whether the contents of the Press conference had contravened the Broadcasting and Television Act. In my view there was an obvious breach of the Broadcasting and Television Act which clearly lays down conditions regarding the telecasting of election material. We have had this reaffirmed by the Government within the last week. We were told that there would be a complete blackout of all election material, whether televised or broadcast, from the Wednesday prior to the Senate election. So this prohibition has been reaffirmed. What I want from the Government is an explanation as to why the television Press conference which the Prime Minister held on the Thursday before the Monash by-election was allowed to be televised in Victoria. I want to know why the Act was contravened and why some action has not been taken against the broadcasting stations and television stations? 
I wrote again to  Mr Wright  on 29th July and stated: 
In my fifth question I asked 'Did the contents of this press conference contravene Section 116(4.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act'. In reply you said 'Not as far as the Board is aware. If such a question did arise, in connection with a telecast of this kind, you will realise that it could be decided only by the Courts'. 
I then went on to ask what he was going to do about it. the reply I received from  Mr Wright  was as follows: 
In reply to your question, the Board does not propose to make any further inquiries in the matter. Those members of the Board and its Executive who observed the programme did not consider that it raised any question that there was a breach of section 116(4). You will appreciate that, to involve a contravention of section 116(4.), the matter broadcast or televised must fall within the definition of 'election matter' as set out in section 116 (6.'). This section is specific in intent and is more limited than is implied in the general expression 'political' as referred to in your letter. 
All I want to draw attention to are some of the matters that were referred to by the Prime Minister on that occasion in his television interview with the Press. He referred to the National Service Act and Victoria in particular. He was asked very pertinent questions about whether he would take proceedings against certain members of the Australian Labor Party who had made a statement at that time which had upset him. 
Not political in the least. He spoke about the National Service Act, the National Health Act and State receipts tax. These were things that were not political and that would have no effect on the Monash by-election. So the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has seen fit to take no further action about the matter. As far as I am concerned, if the law applies to one in this land it applies to all of us and in particular to political parties and governments. If a government introduces legislation, believes in it and wants to preserve it, let it carry it out in principle and observe it. As I mentioned earlier, the Government has decided not to amend the Electoral Act to delete the blackout on political broadcasts from midnight on the Wednesday before an election. I consider that this was a blatant example of an abuse of a Federal Act of Parliament by television stations. I am not saying at this stage that the Prime Minister is responsible for it, but I am saying that the Government should take action on it. 
The principle of law and order does not apply to the 
Government; it applies only to the Opposition. Opposition parties are always disloyal but governments are always most loyal. The other matter I refer to is the demand by the Prime Minister for time on 'This Day Tonight'. I believe that recently he made an approach to  Mr Hamilton  the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and demanded time on this programme. When he was advised that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  of his own party, had appeared on the session the night before he was quite put out. It was only after he went to the ABC later on and claimed that the ABC news bad unfairly and biasedly reported- 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $1 as a direction to the Government to negotiate with the Australian North Bound Conference and the Australian and New Zealand South Bound Conference for half the trade to be carried in Australian ships. 
In speaking to the amendment there are a number of matters with which I want to deal. Firstly, I want to refer to the annual report of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. I want to deal with this matter briefly because I have not a lot of time at my disposal. I want to quote what  Sir John  Williams, the  Chairman  of the Commission, said. This appears on page 9 of the report:  . I record our appreciation of the cooperation given to us by the Maritime Unions, in our efforts to establish an Australian, foreign-going merchant marine. 
I want honourable members to compare that statement with the decision of the Government, led on this matter by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who has countermanded and overruled an agreement negotiated between the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, or the Australian National Line, and the Australian Waterside Workers Federation which contained provision for a 35 hour week. This is the way in which this Government appreciates co-operation and assistance by the trade union movement. The moment that the union members start to get a share of the proceeds brought about by improved technology and other improvements associated with the industry, what is the result? The Government believes that this is a one-way trade, that everything has to go one way. It is obvious from the statement that 1 have read which was made by  Sir John  Williams that there has been maximum co-operation between union and management. 1 leave it at that. I think that the facts speak for themselves. J believe that the statement made by  Sir John  speaks for itself and the statement made by the Minister for Labour and National Service damns the Government. 1 now want to speak not so much about what is in the report but what is not in the report. I am concerned with a number of matters that are not contained in this report. I would like to know What the Government is doing about bringing shipping and transport under one heading. We have the ridiculous state of affairs at present in which the Department of Trade and Industry controls shipping and lays down policy as far as snipping is concerned. We also have the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  with some limited say on shipping and transport matters. The result is that we have divided control in this most important part of the national transport system. We have divided control and divided policies. It is obvious that the cellular container ship policy has been determined by the Department of Trade and Industry and that this policy has not been worn under any circumstances by the Department of Shipping and Transport. It is obvious from the comments of  Sir John  Williams which are in the annual report of the Commission that the Australian National Line does not agree with one iota of the policies laid down by the Department of Trade and Industry. We have a conflict between the 2 Ministers. Last night when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke on the Estimates of the Department of Shipping and Transport the Minister for Trade and Industry was not prepared even to allow his Party colleague to defend him. The Minister for Trade came into this chamber last night after 11 o'clock to defend himself against the attack made on him by the Leader of the Opposition. It is obvious that there is a basic division in policy today between the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Shipping and Transport; there is even a basic division within the Australian Country Party itself, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry not being prepared to rely on the Minister for Shipping and Transport to defend him. 
It is a well known fact in shipping circles today that the Australian National Line did not recommend the cellular container ship method for the AustralianEuropean conference lines. 1 defy honourable members to look through the report of the Commission and to find anything which would lead one to believe that  Sir John  Williams is in accord with a policy which advocated cellular container ships on the Australian-United Kingdom-Europe run. The whole of this report is centred around vehicular deck type ships - the rollon roll-off type of ship which has been introduced on the Australia-Japan run. It is obvious that this is the type of ship which the Australian National Line has introduced on to the Australian coast and which it has developed further for the overseas trade. Incidentally, as 1 said earlier, the decision to go into the United Kingdom-Europe trade with a cellular ship was a decision of the Department of Trade and Industry. The decision to go into the Australia-Japan run was a decision of the ANL as, I believe, was the decision to go into the west coast of America trade. In each of these cases we have the vehicle deck type ship being used. 
One of the things that concerns me is the paltry allocation of quota to the Australian National Line. To quote from the report, Japanese owners on the southbound conference have received 53.935 per cent, cross-traders received 28.905 per cent and Australian owners received 17.16 per cent of the trade. On the northbound run Japanese owners received 43.35 per cent of the trade, cross-traders 33.35 per cent and Australian owners 23.3 per cent. The Australian owners are the Flinders Shipping Co. Ltd and the Australian National Line. One thing which concerns me is that this report contains insufficient information about what the overcarriage of freight will cost the Australian National Line. I want to say very positively that the Government has deliberately withheld the real facts from this report. 1 want to quote' an article appearing in the 'South China Mail' of Saturday 25 July 1970 which states: 
Flinders Shipping Co. Ltd and the Australian National Line are faced wilh the threat that they must pay back to the 2 shipping conferences operating between Australia and Japan and the Far East a substantial proportion of freight revenue. 
ANL's payback will amount to well over $A 1m and will adversely affect the results of the Line in this pioneering shipping operation. 
ANL has to pay back the money because it has carried more cargo than its share of the freight pools, operated by the 2 conferences. 1 do not have time to go through the whole of the article, but the facts are there. If this newspaper was in possession of this information on 25th July 1970 why is there not something contained in this report to indicate to the Parliament just how much the ANL will have to repay to the conference lines, back into the pool, for this overcarriage of freight that is reported by the  Chairman  of the Commission. This is one of the things which is not contained in this report. This Parliament has not been advised of all the things that are happening and I call on the Minister to give us the unadulterated facts when he replies in this debate as he will have the opportunity to do later today. These are the things which should not be withheld from Parliament. These are the things we should be given the maximum information about right from the time that the problem first appears. The Government has been too soft on the conventions to accept this paltry allocation of 17.16 per cent of southbound trade and 23.3 per cent of northbound trade. That is not good enough. As far as this country is concerned we should be demanding, as is laid down in the amendment I have moved, 50 per cent of the trade between Australia and overseas countries. 
We should be expanding our interest in the overseas trade. We should not be at the mercy of overseas shipping lines. That is, of course, what the Minister said to the Country Party conference in Griffith in June of this year - that the increase in freights is not justified. Is this a conflict between the Minister and his Country Party leader,  Mr McEwen.  I will leave that to the Minister to answer because it is obvious to me that there is conflict and dispute in the Country Party on this question of freight rates. I ask the Minister to give  us  an answer to these matters I have referred to. We are satisfied that there is a case to be answered. What I want to know from the Government is this: What action has been taken by the Government to conduct a cost-benefit analysis into the operation of cellular container ships as compared with the roll-on roll-off type of ships. Which is the best one to operate in the best interests of this country, not in the interests of the manufacturers of the United Kingdom, the United States or any other country? We should be operating ships in the best interests of this country. 1 ask the Minister to give me that information. The Government has been operating these ships for over 12 months now. What is the comparison between the economics of the Australian 'Endeavour' as against the Australian 'Enterprise'? These are the answers the Minister has to come up with. If we had had the PAD Shipping Australia Pty Ltd ship in operation this comparison could have been extended to the 3 types of ship. I think the Government should tell the Parliament what it is doing in this field and what the real position is because whilst we have a sketchy, brief outline of what is happening with these 2 ships it is obvious that we have not had all the facts we are entitled to. 
Hie  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired, time has expired. 
This Bill was introduced to make provision for, and in relation to, preventing and dealing with the effects of pollution by oil off the Australian coast, Australian coastal waters and Australian reefs. It was introduced to correct some of the inadequacies and some of the things left out of a similar Bill hurriedly introduced on 18th March when there was an unfortunate incident in the Torres Stait. The Oceanic Grandeur' went aground and commenced to discbarge oil onto the sea. The Government at that time had to act hurriedly and, with the co-operation of the Opposition, a Bill was put through this House in a matter of a couple of hours and through the Senate in a similar period. The Opposition in this Hoiuse asked that another Bill be introduced within 6 months. The Government agreed to permit us to introduce an amending Bill within 6 months and to grant a vote on it. The Senate, on the other hand, gave that legislation a life of 6 months and this expired on 18th September. This Bill seeks to reintroduce the provisions of the earlier Bill together with a number of corrections or additions as the result of the experience gained on the occasion of the grounding of the 'Oceanic Grandeur*. 
Once again, the Opposition supports the proposal. We believe that for too long the Australian coastline has been unprotected by the necessary legislation to ensure that, if a tanker should go aground, be involved in a collision or have some sort of accident which would result in a spillage of oil into the sea, inadequate legislation was available to cope with it. It was. obvious to us on this side of the House as it was obvious to everyone else that inadequate precautions had been taken and inadequate provisions made to ensure that no lasting damage would be clone. 
As far as the constitutional powers or rights of the Commonwealth to act in such cases is concerned, I say that no doubt exists because nearly all shipping in Australian waters is engaged in trade and commerce with other countries and among the States and therefore can be made subject to Commonwealth laws. The Commonwealth has been most dilatory and diffident in enacting such laws. Little doubt exists that both under the trade and commerce powers and the external affairs powers in the Commonwealth Constitution the Commonwealth itself could have implemented the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil of 1954. The Menzies Government, however, took the attitude that complementary State legislation was required. The Commonwealth itself did not pass the Act until 1960. The States, with South Australia bringing up the rear, took 2 more years to pass their Acts and, accordingly, Australia did not gain the benefits of the Convention until 29th November 1962. 
On 11th April of that year amendments to the 1954 Convention were adopted by a conference of contracting governments. The Commonwealth still took the view that complementary State legislation was required. The Commonwealth passed the amending Act in 1965. Western Australia did so in 1964 and Queensland in 1967. The other States still have to act. Thus, Australia, after 8 years, is denied the benefits of the amendments. So one can see that as far as the Constitutional powers of the Commonwealth are concerned no doubt whatever exists that the Commonwealth has the power to act in this way. We support the Bill because we believe, as I said a moment ago, it will give all neccessary coverage to ensure and to protect the Australian coastline. 
One of the things which does concern me following the passage of the legislation iri March of this year and the unfortunate incident of the 'Torrey Canyon' is a report which was tabled in the Queensland Parliament on 23rd July this year. The report tabled in that Parliament dealt with the grounding of the oil tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' in the Torres Strait in March last. The report criticises both the Commonwealth Government and the owners of the tanker. Might I interpose for a moment that I have to rely on a Press report of this report because, when the official report was tabled in the Queensland Parliament, apparently the one and only copy was taken away, given to the Government Printer and, try as I may. I have been unable to obtain a copy of the original statement. Therefore, 1 must rely on a Press report of it. 1 have discussed this Press report with members of the Queensland Parliament who assure me that the Press report by the 'Australian' of 24th July 1970 is a factual report. 
This report states: 
The director of the State Department of Harbours and Marine,  Mr A.  J. Peel, said the general responsibility for overall planning to deal with offshore oil spills must rest with the Commonwealth. 

 Mr Peel said the Commonwealth had vacillated over decisions on who would control clean up operations and the tanker's owners had shown scant regard' for the coastal State of Queensland in its delays in transferring oil to another ship. 
He said conferences convened by the Commonwealth with the States on oil pollution had been unduly protracted and the States should request that they be speeded up. 
I do not propose to read all of the report because it deals with some of the facts about the incident - how much oil was spilt and all the rest of it, and how it took 24 days and  4i  hours to relieve the tanker of its cargo of oil from the time when the 'Leslie J. Thompson' first went alongside. The other point which I believe is of importance in that Press report is this: 

 Mr Peel said it was essential that authority to take all necessary steps to deal with an oil spill should be clear cut. 
There should be no repetition ot an instance where the Commonwealth, after agreeing that the State's Harbours and Marine Department coordinate all arrangements to deal with the spill, queried certain advice from the Department and rejected it 6 hours later. 
In a moment or two I will deal with that statement. One of the other important matters in the report to which f draw attention is that the detergents used on the spill had no effect on oil which had been on the water for more than 6 hours. To me, these are some of the important features of  Mr Peel's  report to the Queensland Parliament. The thing that amused me was the way in which the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  on the same day hastily raced into print and said: 
The Commonwealth was well advanced in the preparation of a disaster plan to cover State and Commonwealth action in any incidents involving spillage of oil into the sea around the Australian coastline. 
The disaster plan would be circulated in draft to all State governments within the next fortnight. 
Conferences to discuss the plan would be held as soon as possible thereafter. 
The plan would be put into operation in the event of another incident like that of the oil tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' which grounded on a previously uncharted rock in the Torres Strait on 3rd March 1970. 
He gave a little detail of how many gallons of oil were spilled, etc., and continued: 
One weakness revealed by the incident was that neither the Government of Queensland nor the Commonwealth had the power to ensure that oil in the tanker was removed as expeditiously as possible. 
We hope that the legislation will give to the Commonwealth the power to ensure that oil in a tanker is removed as expeditiously as possible and that when a ship runs aground, is involved in a collision or is in some accident which places it in danger the necessary precautions can be taken. We hope that the necessary legislative power will be available to ensure that the owners, through their agents - either the shipping agents or the ship's master - carry out the direction of the Department of Shipping and Transport. I hope that we do not have to have further legislation introduced to ensure that this is carried out. On that occasion the Minister said: 
There had been a great deal of essential cooperation between the Queensland and the Commonwealth Governments is the 'Oceanic Grandeur' incident. 
While the Minister may have been quite satisfied with the co-operation, it is fairly obvious that the people on the other side of the fence, namely, the Queensland Government and the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine, were not oversatisfied with the co-operation extended by the Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport. 
Once again we saw the Government run for cover when the Minister said that he was not sure whether the Queensland Government or one of its officials took that view. The Minister had the statement prepared. At least he had some responsibility for the contents of it. If he had not agreed with the statement, I do not think he would have released it. In the latter part of his statement of 24th July the Minister said: 
It was deplorable at this stage that in order to make a querulous complaint and join in the game of kicking the Commonwealth the Queensland authorities had chosen to play down the high level of co-operation that had been achieved. 
That is a shocking state of affairs. The Queensland authorities left the club and drew the attention of the public to the many shortcomings that existed in the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State. I think that on that occasion the Queensland Government did a service to Australians by having brought out these facts. This is particularly so when one takes into consideration question No. 1441 asked by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  of the Minister for Shipping and Transport about the preparedness of the Department to cope with situations such as the 'Oceanic Grandeur' disaster. This question was asked by the honourable member on 21st May 1969: 
Has his Department any plan to deal with a major disaster such as the wreck of an oil-laden super tanker on the Great Barrier Reef? 
Perhaps the honourable member for Brisbane is psychic. He was at that stage concerned that something might happen regarding oil spillages. In reply to that part of the honourable member's question the Minister said: 
Plans for dealing with a major disaster have been discussed with the port authorities and at the Australian Transport Advisory Council. It is also intended that the Commonwealth Departments directly concerned with oil pollution will meet in the near future to develop this aspect further. The port authorities will, of course, be brought into this planning as it develops. 
I ask the Minister, when he replies in this debate, to inform the House what planning was in existence at that time in 1969 and what plans now exist. The matter of planning is one of the things which concerns all honourable members. It is not much use passing legislation to fine people unless we have the organisation necessary to deal with them. 
I sought information from the Department as to what action it had taken to prepare for a possible future disaster such as the grounding of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' or one of the numerous other accidents which have occurred with vessels overseas. We should bear in mind that in the last 10 years there have been more than 500 accidents in the world involving oil tanker spillages on the sea. It is of no use to say that oil spillages do not happen and that we should just go along in the hope that they will not happen near our coastline, as we have done so often in the past, not only in this field, but in many other fields. We have said in the past that 'it cannot happen here, it will only happen to the other fellow'. Our view has been that disasters such as the Torrey Canyon' in England and the oil leak in the Santa Barbara Channel will not occur here. The Oceanic Grandeur' incident is proof that it can happen here. Information has been conveyed to me from the Department of Shipping and Transport and it has, of course, the approval of the Minister. By way of summary this is what has taken place: Commonwealth and State officials have been working on a national plan to deal with marine oil pollution. Meetings have taken place over a period of1 years, the last of such meetings being held on 29th-30th September 1970. Good progress has been made in reaching agreement on such important matters as basic responsibility to deal with accidents, control of clean up operations, resources available, communications, transport, technical advice, operational organisations and plans. All of these matters must be settled before a detailed overall planning document can be drawn up. 
This is the part which disgusts me. The Department of Shipping and Transport has been aware of the problems of oil spillage on the sea for a long time. We have had numerous international conventions as far back as  1954,  from which recommendations had been made to the Government. Accidents involving oil tankers have occurred all over the world. I will repeat what I said a moment ago on this: In the last  10  years there have been over  500  accidents in the world involving oil tankers and yet all that the Department of Shipping and Transport can talk about is that it is in the course of preparing a plan. I am particularly disappointed and annoyed because this information has been available to the Department for some years and it is now only at this stage preparing some sort of a plan.  1  regret that something more positive has not been done about this. Other countries have carried out a considerable amount of research and some countries have experimented with methods of collecting oil off the sea. 
I read a very interesting article recently about what the United States Coast Guard is doing in this field. The article dealt with the work which has been put in to try to work out a means of controlling spillage of oil if a ship is involved in an accident. A new airborne equipment to prevent or reduce maritime oil spills around the east coast of America has been developed. It is called ADAPTS- the Air Delivered Anti-Pollution Transfer System. It is a rubber receptacle  135  feet by  35  feet by  8  feet and it holds about  145,000  gallons of oil. It weighs roughly  500  tons. When it is folded it is roughly the size of a car. It can be carried to the scene of an accident by a helicopter, dropped adjacent to the tanker and then towed to it or, if need be, it can be dropped and lowered on to the tanker, but because oil is to be pumped into the receptacle it is obvious that it should only be dumped or dropped alongside the tanker. There is a group of  4  of these rubber receptacles which include  4  pumps. They have been tested in winds of up to  45  miles per hour and with waves  8  to  12  feet in height. From those facts alone it can be seen that other countries are working on the problem. I have seen reports that other countries are working on the basis of machines which scoop up the water and the use of booms to contain the oi). I hope that the Minister can tell us that the Department has these things in hand. I received today a report from the 
Department of Shipping and Transport which states: 
The question of stockpiling material and equipment at strategic places throughout Australia and the types and quantities of materials and equipment which might be stored at locations are other matters being dealt with. For example, apart from the question of dispersants and detergents, the need to stock pile absorbing material is also being examined as well as such other aspects as spraying equipment (booms, stays, pumps and mixing valves for use on small aircraft, helicopters or boats), suction devices (head, motors and hoses), protection booms (for use in still waters) fire fighting equipment, storage tanks for chemicals (for use on small aircraft or ships) and other special equipment including storage facilities to take oil off marine casualties. 
I have discussed the position with an officer of the Department and my understanding is that other than the storing of detergents or other such types of liquids for breaking up the oil when it is on the water, the Department has none of the things which have been mentioned. There are no booms for use in the sea; there is no machine to collect the oil should it be spilt; there is none of the equipment such as I just mentioned which the American Coast Guard has made available and which it can use in the event of an accident such as we had with the 'Oceanic Grandeur'. I come back to my previous statement. I am disappointed that the Department of Shipping and Transport has not done much more than has been done up to date. This statement goes on: 
In addition, discussions are taking place with fisheries experts and marine biologists to ensure that any action to control oil spills will have due regard to effects on marine life. 
Another thing which has to be borne in mind is that oft times the detergents which are used to break up the oil do more damage to the marine life, the fish and marine growth than the oil does. In the case of the 'Torrey Canyon' and the Santa Barbara oil leaks it was found that marine life suffered very little damage. Whales, seals and fish were found in the vicinity of the oil leaks. After the oil had been cleaned up it was found that they were still in the area and did not appear to have suffered any serious or permanent damage. Due consideration should be given to the fact that whatever detergents are used they should not cause more damage than the oil does. When one talks about the Santa Barbara incident I think an article in the 
Australian' of 25th March 1969 by Jill Sanders is worth reading because we can then transfer our thoughts possibly to Bass Strait, the east coast of New South Wales, some other beaches in Australia or the Great Barrier Reef. I suggest that honourable members read this article and just stop, think for a moment, and transfer their thoughts to one of those places. There are the oil wells in Bass Strait and on Barrow Island off the coast of Western Australia. An oil leak from the wells on Barrow Island might not cause the same damage as would occur if there was an oil leak in Bass Strait or off the east coast near Sydney or Brisbane. The article in the Australian' reads as follows: 
A boom was ready at the harbour and marina entrance to prevent the oil reaching the 700 boats inside and in the afternoon, it was pulled into place, but at 7 p.m. a portion of it broke and the oil slick moved relentlessly into the harbour and enclosed beaches. 
Instead of the green and white surf, try to imagine a black, frothing mixture of crude oil and detergent breaking on Bondi beach; or walking along the beach with each step becoming heavier as oil accumulated on your shoes (a sensation probably comparable to walking through a puddle of chewing gum); or going to your favourite rock pool and finding it barren of life; or seeing thousands of sea birds washed up on the beaches either dead or so plastered with oil that they cannot move nor open their wings. 
It happened at Santa Barbara. 
Let us hope that it does not happen here. But if it does happen here, let us hope that at least the Government is more prepared to deal with it than it was on the occasion of the incident involving the 'Oceanic Grandeur'. In concluding on that point about the 'Santa Barbara' disaster, I mention the fact that it is estimated that approximately 1,400 birds were killed on that occasion. 
One of the matters in this legislation which concerns me is the provision for the collection of damages from the ship owner. The Bill provides for damages of up to $12,600,000. This is set out in the concluding portion of the Bill. The amount is worked out on a formula with which I do not quarrel. The only point about it is that under the formula there is no coverage for a ship in excess of 105,000 dead weight tons. So the provision relates to ships up to a maximum of about 100,000 tons. To the best of my knowledge, up to this point of time no tanker in excess of 100,000 tons has come to these shores, and one of the matters about which I should like to have a grizzle in some other debate is the fact that so much of our oil is being brought to Australia from the Middle East and the Far East in very small ships. I believe that the operation is much too uneconomical and that we should be using larger ships. But, as I say, that is a matter for another debate. 
The amount of the claim for damages which can be recovered is set out in agreement which was recently negotiated in Brussels at the International Legal Conference of Marine Pollution Damage. The agreement was made on 28th November 1969, but it is not yet operative and it will not become operative until 8 of the 15 countries which have over 1 million tons of tankers registered in them sign the agreement. When it does become operative, at least we will have an opportunity to recover damages under international law. But at the moment damages are recoverable only under an agreement which was entered into by the major tanker owners throughout the world who belong to an organisation called TOVALOP - the Tanker Owners Voluntary Agreement Concerning Liability for Oil Pollution. The agreement covers the major tanker owners thoughout the world today. They include BP Tanker Co. Ltd, Esso Transport Co. Inc., Gulf Oil Corporation, Mobil Oil Corporation, Shell International Petroleum Co. Ltd, Standard Oil Co. of California, and Texaco, Inc. 
What I should like to know from the Minister, when he replies, is what happens if a ship or tanker which is not covered by this agreement is damaged off the coast and discharges oil which has to be cleared away or which causes quite a considerable amount of damage to the coast line. What facilities has the Government to recover from the owners of the ship or tanker damages which can be recovered under this Bill. I have in mind the fact that many of the tankers which operate today are owned by what I shall call single ship companies. A company is formed to cover the operations of not more than 1 or 2 ships. An example of what could happen is the 'Torrey Canyon' incident. The French and British governments were unable to recover damages from the owners of the Torrey Canyon' until such time as a sister ship of the 'Torrey Canyon' put into Singapore harbour and was impounded by the authorities. But what happens if the company involved operates only one ship? What facilities does the Government have available to it to recover damages if the owners of a ship are not covered by insurance or do not belong to TOVALOP? 1 am led to believe that only about 50 per cent of the tankers in the world are covered by this form of voluntary insurance. 
The Government has to take precautions against a tanker which is not fully insured operating in Australian waters. I do not know whether the Government would be prepared to go to the extent of saying to the oil refineries in Australia: 'Unless you bring your oil to Australia in ships which are covered by TOVALOP we will not permit the ships to use our harbours'. I appreciate that there are certain international laws which would prevent the Government taking this action, but I think it is worth considering whether it would be possible to amend the Act or extend the agreement in some way to enable damages to be recovered from the owners of tankers. 
Some tanker owners form single ship companies so that they will be excluded from damages claims. They find that it is better to have such a setup than to have one large company owning all of their ships. I believe that this is one of the tricks which the owners of these ships get up to. We all know about the lack of cooperation by the owner of the 'Oceanic Grandeur'. He could not be contacted by the Government for days. It tried to serve a notice on him to discharge the oil from the Oceanic Grandeur'. This man had an asset worth some $14m lying on the bottom of the ocean, but he could not be contacted. It is obvious that he deliberately kept out of contact. If an owner is prepared to do that in those circumstances, it is obvious what he will do in the event of a huge disaster involving millions of dollars. I believe that the Government should take all necessary precautions. I hope that a more effective and more positive statement will be forthcoming from the Government in the not too distant future as to the arrangements which have been made to cope with an emergency such as the 'Oceanic Grandeur' incident or one of the other disasters which have occured in other countries The Opposition considers that this legislation is a step in the right direction and supports it. 
This Bill again increases air navigation charges by 10 per cent. This has been the practice of the Government for the past 12 years. I think this is the twelfth increase approved by the Parliament in the last 12 years. I think this House has unanimously supported the increase on every occasion and I think the same course was adopted in the Senate. Last year we did move an amendment. It was not aimed at defeating the provisions of the Bill but at providing extra protection to people living adjacent to airports. 
This year, for political reasons, we saw that rump Party in the other place - the Australian Democratic Labor Party - elect to oppose it. The DLP senators moved an amendment at the second reading stage. They then moved an amendment during the Committee stage. It is quite obvious that the only reason why they moved the amendment was that they found out that the Australian Labor Party had decided to remain consistent and to support the increase in the rates. We did so because we believe that air travellers should pay a reasonable price and a reasonable proportion of the costs of providing air services. 
The DLP moved this amendment. If we had gone the other way, I am just as confident that the DLP would have voted with the Government. DLP senators were prepared to oppose something which would have represented an increase of some $850,000. Yet, when they had the opportunity to oppose a real impost on the airline industry, they voted with the Government. I am referring here to the increase in excise on fuels which rose by 3c per gallon. This increase represented an additional tax of $4.9m on the airline industry. So, I make these few points in commencing my remarks to draw attention to the way in which these people have manoeuvred. As far as I am concerned, they are inconsistent; they are not fair dinkum. Whenever they can defeat the Government and so bring about an election, they are not prepared to vote against the Government. Whenever they cannot defeat the Government, they are like all paper tigers and they vote against the Government with that knowledge. 
As I said earlier, this Bill provides for an increase of 10 per cent in the air navigation charges on domestic operators. The part of the legislation that disappoints me is the fact that the Government has not continued to apply the 10 per cent increase to international aircraft. No doubt this has been brought about because of the report of the Committee comprising the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Civil Aviation and representatives of the airline operators, which was constituted by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  when he was Minister for Civil Aviation over 12 months ago. Up to this point, the Parliament is not aware of the contents of that report even though it is suggested that the report has been in the hands of the Minister for over 3 months now. 
This illustrates one of the unfortunate practices which this Government follows. It appoints committees; those committees report; and then the Minister concerned proceeds to sit on the report until sometime after legislation such as this legislation has been dealt with and disposed of. The same sort of thing has happened year after year with the annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation. Its presentation to the Parliament is delayed until after the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation have been passed by the Parliament. The same thing happens with the Department of Shipping and Transport. For some reason best known to the Government, the day before the Parliament dealt with the estimates of the Department of Shipping and Transport the report by the 
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission was tabled in the Parliament. Here we have once again this practice by the Government of withholding deliberately from the Parliament information that is important and imperative for use in debates such as the one with which we are dealing now. 
From my point of view, I would love to be able to have the report of the Department of Civil Aviation, to examine it and to see what it contains, what its recommendations are and whether the things which have been said about air navigation charges are correct. I would like to do that before the decision is made on this legislation. But having in mind the figures which we have in our possession which would indicate clearly in our minds that justification exists for the increase on this occasion, we regretfully find ourselves in the position that we are not going to oppose the Bill. We feel that the airline industry is in a position to pay the proposed increases in air navigation charges. 
I have some information here which I will seek shortly to incorporate in Hansard. I have not bad the opportunity to ask the Minister for National Development, who is at the table, whether I may incorporate these tables but I assure him that they have been prepared by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the following tables: 

<graphic href="070131197010221_113_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070131197010221_114_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070131197010221_115_8.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister. He is most cooperative this evening. I do not know whether it is because I said that 1 would keep my speech down to only 10 or 15 minutes. 
It has had some influence on the Minister. Honourable members on this side of the House believe that the figures show the fairly clear need for the increase in air navigation changes. One sees that in 1969-70 $15,566,000 was received from air navigation charges, $4,875,000 from rentals, business trading rights and so on, and $10,517,000 from aviation fuel tax; while $5,175,000 was spent on runways and taxiways maintenance, $2,692,000 on buildings maintenance, $5,434,000 on maintenance of navigational aids and other communication facilities, $4,229,000 on meteorological services and $18,531,000 on operational services and general expenses. All told, these give a total expenditure for the last 12 months of $77,532,000. In the same period revenue was $30,958,000. That leaves a deficit on those 2 items of $46,574,000. On those figures alone I find it difficult to present an argument that the airline operators should not be compelled to pay the additional 10 per cent that has been applied over the last 12 years. 1 also believe that the international operators likewise are entitled to be charged this additional 10 per cent when one takes into consideration that at present extensive lengthening of the north-south runway at Mascot is being carried out at a cost of about $20m. This is not being extended for the domestic jets, the 727s and the DC9s or the Friendships. These aircraft have no trouble landing on the existing runway. In fact for their requirements probably there was no need to carry out the previous extension to the north-south runway. That runway is being extended for one purpose only and that is to cater for the 747s and also the Concordes if Concordes are introduced on the Australian run. If these large extensions are necessary not only at Sydney but also at Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth, why should not the airline operators pay part of the cost of these extensions? It is for that reason that F am disappointed that the 10 per cent has not been added to the overseas rates. 
But the rate is still below what normally would be paid. They are not paying the same rate as the domestic airlines. 
The fact is that they are still paying less per pound of aircraft than the domestic operators pay. I do not consider this to be fair and reasonable. There has been criticism of the amount that the international operators are being charged. I made some inquiries recently of Qantas Airways Ltd to find out the rates which apply. I was given a table which sets out the air navigation charges at a number of international airports as at 20th October 1970. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010221_116_9.jpg"></graphic>

At Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport for a Boeing 707 - 338 the air navigation charge is $898. At Heathrow, in London, it is $655, and at Tokyo $480. The number of aircraft movements at Sydney is so much less than the number at Heathrow and Tokyo. If an air navigation charge of $655 is justified for London, then I think that a charge of $898 is reasonable for Sydney. I reaffirm what I said a moment ago. The extensions to the runways at KingsfordSmith Airport are being carried out not for use by domestic jets but for use by international jets. 
There has been a great deal of weeping and wailing in regard to Boeing 747 aircraft. I understand that when the new aircraft navigation charges become operative the charge for this type of aircraft at Sydney will be $2,270. At present it is $2,065. At Heathrow it is $1,507; at Tokyo $1,104; and at Nandi, $1,134. If 1 were to go through all the airports listed in the table I have supplied it would be seen that the increase in the charge at all airports for Boeing 747s has been one and a half times more than that for Boeing 707s. 
At San Francisco the charge is $81 and at New York $84. There is a tremendous difference between the aircraft movements at these two airports and those at KingsfordSmith Airport. A further point to be noted is that the Americans have a different method of financing their airports. The Federal Government in this country makes quite a substantial contribution to the cost of airport facilities, runways and so on. Grants of up to 50 per cent of construction costs are made. If grants of up to 50 per cent of the cost of constructing airports are made, then grants of a like amount should be made towards the cost of the construction of railways, roadways and other transport systems throughout Australia. 
I hope that the committee will bring down some recommendation as to how air navigation charges should be broken up. I cannot see any reason why R &amp; R aircraft should not be charged or why VIP aircraft can use civil airport facilities without having an air navigation charge levied. At least this would bring in some revenue. I know it is only a transfer of funds from 1 account to another but it keeps the figures square; the people who are using the airports pay for them. I feel there should be some allocation for defence. Should the demands of national development be taken into account? Should decentralisation be charged with the responsibility of providing airports at places like Port Hedland, Dubbo and other out of the way places. If so I do not feel that the Department of Civil Aviation should carry these responsibilities. The State Department of Decentralisation and Development should be making a contribution towards the cost of construction, maintenance and development of airports. 
Possibly the same thing can be said in regard to tourism. It has been argued that tourists bring foreign exchange into Australia. If tourism has any value let us determine what that value is so that it can be credited to the revenue of the Department of Civil Aviation. I do not know whether the Department of Civil Aviation makes any charge on the Department of Customs and Excise for the customs facilities which are provided at airports - they are quite substantial. The same thing can be said in relation to the Department of Immigration and the Department of Health. I would like the Minister to say whether any charge is made for these facilities. Once again it is a transfer from 1 account to another but at least it keeps the record straight as far as each account is concerned. If the Department of Customs and Excise sets up an office in a private establishment it has to pay rent for that accommodation. I think these things have to be looked at. If we are overcharging the airlines - I doubt whether we are - let us find out how much we are overcharging them. Or are the charges fair and equitable? I think by a series of book keeping entries we can probably arrive at a determination of whether the complaints which are being levelled against these increases are fair and reasonable or whether the Government is fair and reasonable in imposing the charges. 
In conclusion I would like to make 2 points. I do not often agree with  Sir Reginald  Ansett but I agree with his complaint about the domestic airline operators being charged with the responsibility of building elaborate terminals like those at Tullamarine Airport when there was no need for them. This airport was built to satisfy the ego of the Victorians. The same remarks apply to the elaborate and lavish airport facilities which were provided in the international terminal at Tullamarine and Sydney. I have not seen anything anywhere in the world as elaborate as the facilities in these 2 airports. A few years ago I visited 27 countries and in that time I did not see anything that came anywhere near the facilities that have been provided in those 2 places. If the international operators want this type of facility I think they should pay for it. The normal users of domestic airlines should not be asked to pay for it. I think what the Government has done in the other provisions in the Bill - which everyone so easily and quickly forgets - is fair and reasonable. I think the charges which are payable by general aviation aircraft are fair and reasonable. We are not opposed to the amendments to the second schedule. We support them as we do the Bill. 
If I have upset the honourable member for Gwydir I regret it. Dubbo is not an out of the way place; it is just off the beaten track. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships working on the Australian coast have been docked or repaired overseas from  1  January 1969 to date. 
Can he say why these ships were not docked or repaired in Australia. 
by leave) - I join the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Air craft Noise in expressing my appreciation to the members of the staff of the Committee, to those men who were so cooperative and helpful to members of the Committee, including myself. They made information available to us and assisted us in every possible way. We had as good a team of men working with us as it was possible to get together. Although the present Secretary of the Committee is  Mr Chapman, Mr Doug  Blake was the original Secretary, and I also include him in the people who were most helpful and co-operative to members of the Committee. 
I believe that this inquiry has been helpful. I believe that the Committee has come up with some reasonable recommendations which, if implemented by the Government, could be of great assistance to people living close to or adjacent to airports or under flight paths. Today there is a greater awareness of the problems of aircraft noise. May I issue a warning. I believe that the Service departments - the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army and the Department of Air - probably have to take greater heed of the Committee's recommendations than they have done in the past. I believe that already I have seen examples of the Service departments ignoring completely the interim reports which the Committee presented to- this Parliament late in  1969  and early in  1970.  So we have to consider the effects not only of aircraft noise created by general aviation but also by the Service aircraft. 
I believe that the Committee has brought down some very good recommendations on noise exposure forecasts. All I want to say at this stage is that I hope that in the initial stages, until such time as the effects of this section of the recommmendations and the application of this new system of noise exposure forecasting are considered fully, this matter should not be enforced rigidly. There should be some elasticity about it so that at least we can see how it will work, and people should not be debarred from doing some of the things that they want to do in areas where town planning proposals have already been instituted. It is in this latter field that there has to be maximum co-operation between the Department of Civil Aviation and the State planning authorities at both tha State and local government levels. lt was obvious from the inquiry and from the evidence which was presented to the Committee that local government and State authorities are not prepared to hand over to the Federal Government the right to plan in areas adjacent to airports, in the same way as we now have power under the regulations to control the height of buildings adjacent to airports. Therefore, if they are not prepared to give this power to the Federal Government, at least they should co-operate and have some regard for the people who have to live near airports. 
Another important decision concerned the question of the support for the imposition of the curfew on the jet aircraft operations between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. I have not the time to deal with all of these matters in detail because of an arrangement to confine our remarks to a reasonable degree, but already questions have been asked concerning this matter of the curfew and to . date there has been no indication from the Minister - whether it be the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  the former Minister for Civil Aviation who is sitting at the table, or his successor - that due heed will be given to lbc need for rigid imposition of the curfew, particularly at those airports where people are affected seriously by aircraft noise. 1 refer to Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. The people in those cities have their night's rest disturbed at all hours of the night by the noise created by jet aircraft. ft is my view that there should be no relaxation of the curfew on flying hours except in the case of an emergency such as when an aircraft is having difficulties or people have been delayed because of bad weather conditions. Perhaps my colleagues who represent electorates which are situated under flight paths may disagree with me on this point but I feel that people should not be forced to remain away from their homes or not. allowed to complete their journey in such unusual circumstances,. But I think it is completely wrong te schedule flights as they have been ever since this Committee commenced its inquiry. It is my view that the Minister should immediately terminate the policy that has been adopted in recent years of allowing airlines to operate during curfew hours in holiday periods. If the airlines have not sufficient aircraft then that is just too bad. 
The number of people' who gain the advantage of travelling after I I p.m. and before 6 a.m. is so infinitesimal in comparison with the number who travel between 6 a.m. and 1 1 p.m. that we should do everything possible to ensure that the people under the flight paths do not have their night's rest disturbed. The imposition of curfew hours is something that must be rigidly enforced. 1 want to refer to another matter while I am in such a domineering and dogmatic mood. 
That is right. It is a change. The further point I want to make is that the Department of Civil Aviation should demand that airline operators compel their employees to wear protective equipment when working on ;t tarmac adjacent to aircraft. There are two types of people who can be affected by aircraft noise. There are those who live under the flight path. When aircraft fly over their homes these people suffer some nervous reaction because of the noise. They may have their rest disturbed, telephone conversations interrupted, television viewing interfered with, and so on. Other than the effect that the noise has on a person's nerves there is probably no permanent damage. In contrast those men who work on a tarmac and are adjacent to aircraft should be compelled by their employer or union - this applies both ways - to wear protective apparel to prevent permanent damage being occasioned to their hearing. I am now speaking as one who has some knowledge of this matter. Because of the effects of noise which I suffered in another field, in my former occupation, I have not got complete hearing today. These people who work on a tarmac are subject to an even higher level of noise than 1 had been subjected to when working in a boilermaker's shop. T can only assume that the extent of the loss of hearing incurred by members employed in the aircraft industry is much greater than it is in the boilermakers' industry. I hope that the union concerned and the airlines will co-operate to do something positive about this matter. 
By the same token there is a necessity for research to be carried out into the effect of noise on people under flight paths. We know what effect aircraft noise has on people adjacent to aircraft but research should be undertaken to determine the social effects on people. What does aircraft noise do to them? This is something on which the Government should be prepared to spend quite a deal of money to enable universities and people in the medical and sociological fields to carry out an investigation. It is unfortunate that the Committee did not have the financial resources or the time to carry out such investigation. This is a matter which has to be dealt with much more fully than the Committee was able to do. 
In conclusion there are two matters I want to refer to. Firstly, the Government did not give the Committee the power to tackle properly the problem of aircraft noise; in other words to inquire and determine where the airports should be located. I do not think that there is one member of the Committee who agrees that Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is in the correct position and that it should remain v/here it is. It is obvious to everyone who has done any work on this matter that the Sydney Airport should be shifted because of the thousands of people who are affected adversely by the noise level adjacent to the Airport. 
Well, Sydney is even worse than West Beach. It is much worse than Brisbane or Perth. I will agree with the honourable member for Adelaide that the airport at Adelaide and also, I might add, the airports at Brisbane and Perth, have a very decided noise problem. But the problem at Sydney is greater than the problems at these other airports. I believe the Committee should have had the power to make recommendations to the Government about the location of an alternative airport for Sydney. The Committee has carried out the work that it was given on aircraft noise. However, the Government has left the matter of airport location to other committees. I understand one committee that was appointed reported to the Minister for Civil Aviation some months ago. That report is probably still lying in the archives of his office and it appears that the Minister does not intend to do anything about it. The Government is now appointing subcommittees to investigate this matter. When the Senate election is over we may get a report. But I believe this Parliament should have a say in where airports should be located. The Aircraft Noise Committee should have been given the power to report the siting of airports. The Committee should have been able to report not only on Sydney but also on West Beach, Perth Brisbane and any other airport that presents a problem. Townsville has a problem, which will become even greater unless something is done about it. 
I know that the  Chairman  of the Aircraft Noise Commute would have liked to go to Norfolk Island and so would everyone else, but I do not think there was any need to go there. I know that the  Chairman  also, considered that a visit to Norfolk Island was not necessary. There is a need for this type of planning and the Committee should have been given the responsibility to report on such plans. 
Whilst there is no minority report and whilst members of the Committee had no desire to bring down a minority report, I had an objection to one of the recommendations of the Committee. I expressed my opposition in the House when the interim report of the Committee was tabled. I believe that Standing Orders should be amended to allow a minority report to be presented to the Parliament. Under the present arrangements a member of the Committee cannot express opposition to the contents of the report or any portion of the report. A member would be able to do this if a minority report was tabled with the report of the Committee. At present a member may express his opposition in the minutes of proceedings when resolutions are adopted or decisions made by the Committee. However, this is not the same as a minority report. Therefore, I believe that Standing Orders should be amended to provide for minority reports. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof:  because insufficient foresight has been exercised in planning Australia's present and future commercial jet pilot training facilities so as to avoid adverse effects from aircraft noise on established and expanding communities and immediate steps should be taken to plan and construct elsewhere a facility for commercial jet pilot training, the development of Avalon Airport be referred hack to the Public Works Committee*. 
I thank the Minister and honourable members. In this letter, dated 8th March 1968, addressed to  Mr Lee  the former honourable member for Lalor, the part I want to emphasise is the last paragraph which reads: 
However, we will again bring this problem to the attention of our Senior Training Captains and ask them to do everything within their power to minimise the nuisance of noise. You are aware that we restrict our hours of training to avoid annoying people late at night, and you may be assured that we are endeavouring to co-operate to the utmost with the local residents of your electorate. 
I want to emphasise this sentence: 
We have pressed the Department of Civil Aviation for another training aerodrome on  the  Eastern Coast of Australia in  a  remote area, but until such time as that airfield  is  built we can only do our best to alleviate this problem within the confines of the restrictions under which we operate. 
Assuring you that we will do our best  in  this regard. Yours sincerely-- 
That is a letter from Qantas which draws attention to the fact that prior to 8th March 1968 the problems associated with Avalon were brought to the attention of the Department of Civil Aviation. What has been the result of the protests of the people of Little River and Lara and the other people who live around that area about the operations of aircraft? The whole result is that the Department of Civil Aviation is now going to construct facilities to allow pilots of probably the noisiest commercial aircraft operating in the world to be trained at Avalon. I am referring to the Concorde. The proposed development is to provide training facilities for pilots of 747 aircraft and Concorde aircraft - that is, if the 2 aircraft ever become a going proposition. 
As the honourable member for McMillan well knows, the Concorde is flying now. In England, which is one of the co-builders of the aircraft, serious complaints have already been received from people as to the level of noise from that aircraft. 
Sitting suspended from  12.45  to  2.15  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for luncheon I was discussing my amendment to the motion which was moved for the approval of work on the extension of the runway at Avalon airport. I shall take up my remarks from that point. It has been suggested that there are no suitable sites anywhere on the east coast for the construction of a runway to be used for jet pilot training. I think it is silly to accept such a statement because honourable members who fly between Melbourne and Sydney or Sydney and Adelaide or Melbourne and Adelaide must have observed the areas of open country on which a runway could be laid and the necessary instrument landing system installed. Such a runway could be used for training jet pilots in not only Boeing 747 and Concorde aircraft but also the rest of the commercial jet aircraft, such as the Boeing 727, the DC9. the Fokker Friendship and even the Fellowship F28. The runway could be used to train pilots in all of these aircraft. To my mind it is ridiculous for officers of the Department of Civil Aviation or anyone else to argue that there, is insufficient space available in which to construct a runway. 
I consider that there is a serious noise problem at Avalon airport. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, of which I was a member, saw pilots flying Boeing 707 aircraft and indulging in their normal training procedures of taking off with 1 engine out, taking off with 2 engines out, taking off with 1 engine out on 1 wing and taking off with 21 engines out on 1 wing. This created quite a considerable amount of noise. Whilst I admit that the noise level did not compared with that experienced under the flight paths to Mascot airport in Sydney or to any of the large airports in the capital cities, at the same time there was a substantial amount of noise created over the townships of Little River and Lara. Some readings of noise levels which were taken at the time indicate that a Boeing 707 belonging to Qantas Airways Ltd which was carrying out these exercises created an overall sound pressure level of 99 decibels. This is quite a lot of noise, particularly when one realises that there is a substantial number of aircraft movements at Avalon. The number of movements at Essendon airport in 1969-70 was 115,105, and the number of movements at Avalon airport for the same period was 37,230. So even though Avalon airport is located outside the city of Melbourne, at the same time there is a quite considerable number of aircraft movements from the airport. The figures which I have quoted clearly indicate that there is approximately one-third the number of movements at Avalon as there are at Essendon. 
One of the responsibilities of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise was to investigate the noise problems associated with major airports throughout Australia. Essendon was a serious noise problem which will be overcome, to a great extent, when the Melbourne airport is transferred from Essendon to Tullamarine. In my opinion, the people near this airport have a serious complaint, and this Parliament should not allow the cause of the complaint to continue. I want to emphasise 1 point which I think is important. Whilst I am advocating the removal of jet pilot training from Avalon airport, I am not - and I emphasise the word 'not' - advocating the closure of this airport because I believe that the runway should be retained for the testing of aircraft which are being built by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Government Aircraft Factory and the assembly plant which is adjacent to the Avalon airport. I believe that the runway should be retained for the testing of aircraft but not for the training of pilots. When aircraft are being tested they take off and fly at a much higher level. They do not cause the noise problem which would be associated with the training of pilots, particularly in large jets. 
Another matter will be raised. It will be stated that if we do not agree to the extension of the runway at Avalon airport, it will hold up the training of pilots in Boeing 747 and Concorde aircraft. I believe that the amount of $6.4m which will be required to extend this runway should be used for the construction of another runway in a remote area which will not cause any noise problems to people. The runway could be designed to suit the prevailing winds in the locality. The flight paths could be designed so that aircraft would not fly over even small townships of 300 or 400 people, as in the case of Lara and Little River. This is something that has to be done in the future. As I said a moment ago, it will be stated that if we do not agree to the extension of the runway at Avalon airport we will be holding up the training of these pilots. But I believe that rather than waste this $6.4m, it would be much cheaper if the pilots were sent overseas and trained in the United States of America or in some other country where training facilities are available. But in the meantime the Government should treat the planning and construction of a new runway in a remote area as a matter of urgency and get on with the job. lt has been said to me: 'You are going to abandon an asset worth some $15m.' 1 am not abandoning it. J. am not prepared to waste any more money on Avalon airport when I think that the runway should be moved elsewhere. Whilst it could be said that at the present time there is not a lot of residential development adjacent to Avalon airport or under the flight paths to the airport, there arc still the people of Lara and Little River to be considered. 1 am very concerned also for the students of the Geelong Grammar School. 1 would hate to think that some future Gorton-type Prime Minister was denied the opportunity of receiving an education at that school. 
There was a lot of disturbance, and this is what I want to overcome because the country cannot carry another Prime Minister of that type. In the not too distant future, in my opinion and in the opinion of a lot of people who are concerned with Avalon airport, with the completion of the West Gate Bridge there will be a quite substantial urban development around and adjacent to Avalon airport. What will happen? There will be a repetition of what happened at Sydney, at West Beach airport in Adelaide and at Essendon. Admittedly the runway will be there, but people will still go to live there. 
Unless the Victorian Government is prepared to do something positive at this stage to plan urban development so that residential development is not allowed to take place in the vicinity of Avalon airport, there will be a repetition of what has happened around most of the capital city airports in Australia today. 
The opportunity is there. In my opinion, the area around Avalon airport is ideal for urban development. Therefore, that development should be permitted. I consider that this runway is too close to what will be a part of Melbourne in the not too distant future. Therefore, we should be taking steps immediately to transfer die site to a more remote area so that people will not be inconvenienced or subjected to noise nuisance and so that the natural expansion and development of the city of Melbourne will be allowed to take place. 
This is only a minor Bill. The Lighthouses Act probably has been amended on fewer occasions than any other piece of Commonwealth legislation. The Bill sets out to modernise the terminology of the Act by deleting the definition marine mark.' and substituting 'marine navigational aid'; to bring the Act up to date in accordance with the requirements of the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1960; and to extend the provisions of the Act to cover a lighthouse and 2 beacons established in the Coral Sea Islands territory. The Lighthouses Act is concerned with the provision, operation and maintenance of aids to marine navigation On and in waters around the coast of Australia and the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Throughout Australia there are 56 manned light stations, 194 unattended lights. 25 light buoys, 3 unlighted buoys, 2 light vessels, 27 day beacons, 11 radio beacons, 1 high frequency direction finding station. 1 electronic ship guidance  system  recently installed in Western Australia and in Papua and New Guinea there are 67 night and 65 day beacons, all unattended. All these aids are. serviced by three 1.500-ton lightships- the 'Cape Pillar', the Cape Moreton' and the 'Cape Don'. These 3 ships were built at the State dockyard in Newcastle, if I may give the establishment a little commercial. They are 3 good ships which are well built. As well as these lightships there are 2 smaller ships, one on Thursday Island and one on Samarai, which are charged with the responsibility of maintaining all these lights. 
Shipping on the Australian coast over recent years has had to rely for navigation on the standard compass radar directional finding equipment without the assitance of modern electronic equipment. There have been very few navigational aids introduced to the Australian coast for many years with the exception of the Decca system to cover the approaches to Port Hedland on the Western Australian coast. Over recent years there have been numerous statements by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  and his Department. As far back as 17th October 1967 there was an announcement that some $15m to $20m would be spent to modernise and re-equip Australia's marine navigation system and that the Government intended examining the world's most comprehensive and sophisticated marine navigational aid system. The Government then sponsored a symposium in Sydney by the Decca Navigating Company in London and its Australian partner, Amalgamated Wireless Australasia Ltd from 25th to 29th March 1968. At that symposium over 370 representatives ot Government service department.1!, marine aviation and commercial interests attended, and it appeared at that time that at least something was going to happen and that the Government would get on with the job of providing modern navigational aids for the coast. 
Then there was a deathly silence until 1st September 1968 when the Minister made another of his longwinded statements wherein he repeated what had been released by the Department back in February of the same year. At that time when he made this further statement the measures which he announced were to be taken were to speed up the installation of additional basic aids such as lights, beacons, buoys and radio aids. This was considered necessary both to meet the present everyday needs of shipping and to reduce travelling time between ports; to initiate a detailed study of the applicability to Australian conditions of advanced systems of electronic aids to shipping such as the 
Decca and Lawrence systems; to modernise progressively existing aids and servicing facilities with appropriate use of new instruction techniques, automation and remote control and progressively to improve all transport involved in ensuring maximum effectiveness in the operation of these aids. One was entitled to feel at that time that something was at last under way. By that time the shipping industry felt that the Government was going to get on with the job. But it was not until 11th May this year that the Decca electronic navigational aid became operative for the narrow channels leading to Port Hedland,  2i  years after the first announcement early in 1968 and in all probability somewhere around about 3 years from the time the first statement was made by the former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the Honourable Gordon Freeth. Today there is a strong feeling of urgency in shipping and naval circles for the Government to undertake a substantial development programme having in mind that over the years insufficient money has been spent in this field. I am advised by people in this industry that lights are very old. radio beacons are very limited, weak and not very effective. 
The old days of small ships trading on the coast and overseas have gone. I personally recall that in pre-war and early post-war times iron ore was carried in ships of less than 10,000 tons. When the first 10,000-tonner was put on the coast run carrying ore from South Australia to Port Kembla and Newcastle we thought it was a really large ship. Today ore carriers larger than 100.000 tons are operating on the west coast, and ore carriers of from 50,000 tons to 70.000 tons are carrying ore from Western Australia to Port Kembla and Newcastle. Wheat carrying ships of up to 50,000 tons dead weight are lifting wheat from Australian ports. Bulk carriers of between 50.000 tons and 60.000 tons are shipping coal to Japan. 
When Australian ports are enlarged much bigger ships will be introduced to this trade. Inquiries, investigations and negotiations are being carried out at present to decide whether deep sea loading ramps or jetties can be built out into the ocean so that ships much larger than those already on the trade may be introduced. This will mean that coal and other bulk cargoes can be carried much cheaper than at present. Ships of this size are carrying not only coal but also bauxite and alumina. In 1969 213 tankers of between 18,000 and 101,000 tons carried 5,226,000 gallons of our total imports of crude oil. To this must be added the volume of petroleum products and crude oil carried on the Australian coast. 
It is obvious that there is a need for more modern and up to date navigational aids to be introduced on the Australian coast. In addition to the ships I have detailed faster and larger tankers are now operating between Australia and Europe. Additional ships will be brought into the trade, not only for the Australia to Europe trade but also for the shipping trade between Australia and Japan and Australia and the United States. I believe that these ships should have on the Australian coast the navigational aids that are available to them in other countries. Ships are not only larger today but also much faster. What is more, they will become larger and faster. In the main, the industry has to rely on antiquated navigational systems around our 12.000 miles of coastline. Ships are sailing in many cases in waters not previously frequented by shipping of the size of present day vessels. There is a great need for the Government to follow up what it commenced at Port Hedland. 
I do not propose to say what system should be introduced. Several types of electronic aids are available. This decision is a matter for people well versed in the field, with the necessary training and qualifications to make these decision. I will not say at this stage what system should be selected. It appears that the Decca system is one of the most suitable systems, having been in operation in all areas of the United Kingdom for about 20 years. I understand that the system was perfected for the Allied landing at Normandy during World War II. Without being critical of the excellent service provided by the Torres Strait pilot service, I believe that there is a strong claim for the installation of an electronic navigational system in Torres Strait and Barrier Reef waters. 
On 12th May the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in a reply to a question I had asked advised me that the figures for 1966-67 - the latest available at that time - showed that 1,259 ships with a total dead weight tonnage of 23,251,931 tons, and an average per ship tonnage of 18,469 dead weight used those waters. Further, 212 vessels of over 30,000 tons dead weight, with a total tonnage of 9,274,643 tons dead weight and an average dead weight per ship of 43,748 tons were carrying bulk commodities in those waters. They carried 2.5 million tons of iron ore; 3 million tons of petroleum and crude oil; 530,000 tons of sugar and 280,000 tons of steel products. As I have mentioned, these figures were for the year 1966-67. The position is that here we have limited channels. Let us take the case of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' which went aground earlier this year and which could have caused a considerable amount of damage to marine life, to the Australian coast and to the Great Barrier Reef. It is the general opinion that if an electronic aid of the quality of the Decca system recently installed by the Government on the approaches to Port Hedland had been available in these waters this accident would not have occurred. 
Large ships are using waters of limited depth From the figures made available by the Minister in his statement, it would appear that in many parts the 'Oceanic Grandeur' was almost literally skimming the bottom. Where it went aground it seemed that the ship was being taken through water which was too shallow. The other place which should be considered for the installation of this type of navigational aid is Bass Strait where we have oil and gas platforms from 15 to 50 miles from the shore. The sea lanes here arc subjected to bad weather. It is a well known fact that Bass Strait has some of our worst weather. We have some oil platforms out there in the sea lanes. It is probably good luck that up to date there have been no fatalities or accidents. Of course, we always adopt the attitude - up to date we have been fairly lucky - that this cannot happen here; it can only happen to the other fellow. 
We do not want to see another 'Torrey Canyon' incident. We do not want to see ships colliding with the oil platforms. A collision with a gas platform would be bad enough, but I would hate to think what would happen to the Tasmanian and Victorian coastlines if a ship collided with an oil platform. It is time a system of naviga tional aids was introduced. There is a need for this thpe of system on the east coast of Australia also. People in shipping circles and in the maritime industry all assure me that, as far as they are concerned, they would be delighted to see the Government undertaking at an early stage, and treating as a matter of urgency, the installation of an electronic navigational system on the east coast of Australia. Furthermore, these aids are also required for Darwin, Gove and Weipa where radar is sometimes unserviceable and useless as a result of torrential downpours. Ships' captains have advised me that they have experienced the screen being subject to clutter as a result of torrential downpours of rain in the areas I have just mentioned, as well as at Thursday Island and the Barrier Reef areas. These are areas where up to the present time we have been lucky. 
While it is compulsory for ships of less than 1,600 tons to be equipped with radio telephones, if they are over 1,600 tons they are required to have radio telegraphy installed. But there is no compulsion, even though nearly all the ships on the Australian coast are fitted with radar, for ships to have radar installed. There is no requirement in the Navigation Act, as there is for radio, that the ship owner must have radar installed on his ship. As I said, even though most of them are equipped, there is no reason why all ships should not be equipped with radar. All the major trading countries of the world have various types of electronic navigational aids. The Decca system which, as I said, has been installed on the approaches to Port Hedland, is operating on the west coast of Europe, the United Kingdom and the Atlantic coast of Canada and, in recent months, a new system has been completed at Los Angeles and on the Florida coast. At present a survey is under way along the coast of Alaska to see what protection should be given to ships carrying ore and other commodities in those waters. 
The oil companies have been instrumental in having a system installed in the Persian Gulf, but there is no similar system operating on the Australian coast. There should be a system to guide large bulk ships and tankers through Torres Strait and down past the Barrier Reef or, as the case may be, through Bass Strait. If oil companies can get these things installed in the Persian Gulf why cannot they get them in Australian waters? 1 am concerned not about the oil companies as companies but about the possible loss of life and the damage that could be caused to the Australian coastline if there was a sinking or a collision between ships involving fatalities. There are 2 sections on the coast of India where these aids have been installed - one on the west coast and the other in the vicinity of Calcutta. They also are available on the lower western and southern sections of the coast of South Africa. 
Japan probably has as good a system as exists anywhere. Japan recently completed the installation of more equipment. Now all the waters surrounding Japan are adequately covered by this type of electronic navigational aid. Australia has only one installation and large areas of our surrounding waters have not been re-chartered since Captain Cook and the early navigators carried out their work, lt may be claimed that they did a good job but the people in a position to advise me on the subject say that checks carried out with electronic aids have revealed many discrepancies in existing charts. There are plenty of reasons why something should be done about this matter. I believe there are about 14,000 ships today which are equipped with Decca navigation equipment but none of it can be used in Australian waters apart from that area near the system recently installed at the approaches to Port Hedland in Western Australia. We are well and truly lagging behind the rest of the world in this field of modern navigational aids. The old days of lighthouses and beacons have gone. It is time the Government did something positive about these things. 
I am led to believe that at present there is considerable unrest among people working in the lighthouse service because their wages and conditions are far below those of their counterparts in trading ships. I understand that negotiations have been under way between the representatives of the men on lightships and lighthouses and the Public Service Board. People in merchant ships have had their increases for some time now whereas negotiations are still going on between the Public Service Board and the unions representing these men. As far as I know they have an excellent record of service. There are numerous instances of their carrying out rescue and salvage work in addition to their normal duties. The work that these men do requires special skills. They are required to possess the skills necessary for the servicing of lighthouses, lightships and the lighters and in addition they are subject to long periods away from their homes. They have no home life and often are away for 3 or 4 months at a time. In itself this is sufficient reason for them to be paid wages and have conditions more favourable than those normally paid in other positions. 
When one looks into the wages paid to these people one can well and truly understand why there is discontent and unrest in the service today. For example, the master of a lightship receives an annual salary of $6,309 while his counterpart in a merchant ship receives $11,800. The salary of the chief officer on a lightship is $3,531, ranging up to $3,792, while his counterpart receives $9,891. A seaman on a lightship receives from $2,632 to $2,914 a year while his counterpart on a merchant ship receives $6,600 a year. So when one compares these figures it is easy to understand, as 1 said a moment ago, why there is so much discontent and dissatisfaction amongst these men. I hope that the Minister will at least pay heed to what these people have been saying to his Department and to what I have been saying here tonight and that is that serious consideration will be given to setting an early date for lifting the salaries of these men up to what they should be. The rates should be more comparable with those in outside industry so that they will receive better recognition for the work they do. 
As I said earlier, this Bill is of limited importance. It is a minor Bill designed to bring the Act into the electronic age and so I indicate on behalf of the Opposition that we will not oppose the Bill. I ask the Minister to get on with the job. The Department of Shipping and Transport has been talking about introducing electronic navigational aids for 3 years now. It should get on with the job of providing these facilities where they should be provided and I have already stated where I think they should be installed. At the same time let us have an amendment to the Navigation Act so as to ensure that all ships operating on the Australian coast are forced to install radar because it is obvious that this is  a most  important and essential piece of equipment as far as navigation is concerned. We support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships working on the Australian coast have been docked or repaired overseas from 1st January 1969 to date. 
Can he say why these were not docked or repaired in Australia. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what was the (a) value of assets, (b) outstanding debt, (c) amount of loan repayments, (d) amount of interest payments and (e) profit or loss for the year's trading for each State rail system and the Commonwealth Railways as at 30th June in each of the past 10 years. 
In which years were freights and fares increased in respect of each system, and what was the amount of the increase in each case. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many charter aircraft accidents occurred in each of the last 10 years. 
How many charter aircraft were registered in each of these years. 
How many (a) pilots and (b) passengers were (i) killed and (ii) injured in each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many general aviation accidents occurred in each of the last .10 years. 
How many general aviation aircraft were registered in each of these years. 
How many (a) pilots and (b) passengers were (i) killed and (ii) injured in each year. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships have been built overseas for Australian owners in each of the last 5 years. 
In which country was each ship built. 
What was the tonnage in each case. 
Is he able to say who launched each ship. 
If so, has he any information as to whether the lady who launched each ship was the recipient of a gift; if so, what was the nature of the gift. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the firm of Ampol Petroleum Ltd in recent years placed an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the construction of a tanker for the carriage of petroleum products on the Australian coast. 
If so, when was the order placed with the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
When were tenders called. 
When was the order placed with a shipyard. 
Which shipyard was used. 
What is the tonnage of the tanker and the cost to the owner. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the firm Howard Smith Ltd in recent years placed an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the construction of a tanker for the carriage of petroleum products on the Australian coast. 
If so, when was the order placed with the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
When were tenders called. 
When was the order placed with a shipyard. 
Which shipyard was used. 
What is the tonnage of the tanker and the cost to the owner. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd in recent years placed an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the construction of a tanker for the carriage of petroleum products on the Australian coast. 
Ii so, when was the order placed wilh the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
When were tenders called. 
When was an order placed with a shipyard. 
Which shipyard was used. 
What is the tonnage of the tanker and the cost to_ the owner. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Have the firms of Caltex Oil (Australia) Ply Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd in recent years placed an order wilh the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the construction of a tanker for the carriage of petroleum products on the Australian coast. 
If so, when was the order placed with the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
When were tenders called. 
When was the order placed with a shipyard. 
Which shipyard was used. 
What is the tonnage of the tanker and the cost to the owner. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what taxes are collected by each State from 
the road transport industry, and 
motorists. 
Can he say what sums were collected by each State for each of the last S years for which statistics are available and what was the cost of administering those taxes. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Why is it necessary to pay the commission and agency fees of $3,380,713 shown on page 26 of the annual report of the Australian National Line for 1969-70. 
To whom were the commissions and fees paid and what amounts were paid in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many times in the last 5 years have pilots employed by (a) Qantas and (b) TransAustralia Airlines gone on strike. 
What was the duration of each strike and the estimated loss of revenue in each case. 
What were the claims of the pilots, and how many of their demands were agreed to as a result of each strike. 
Whilst I support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  I would put one suggestion to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  The Bil! deals with the prosecution of persons who "fail either to take out or to renew 'a television viewer's licence. I think it is a fact that at least 50 per cent of those cases which are dealt with in the courts apply to people who have overlooked the need to take out a licence. I have had quite a few people come to see me at different times when the inspector has been around and their names have been taken because they have failed to take out a licence. I have not found anyone yet amongst those who have been prosecuted or who have come to see me who has refused to take out a licence. In most cases they had been mixed up in their dates or the husband "had' left it to the wife to pay it and the wife- hart left it to the husband to pay it. The result was that no-one paid it. In the main these have been the reasons for the convictions. 
Information that has come to me indicates that in 1968-69 there were 20.959 prosecutions throughout Australia. No doubt this has involved the. Minister's Department in quite a deal , of legal work in preparing the summonses. . Previously they had to be served, but now there is a new procedure. The matter" then comes before the court. All of this takes' time. Very few people are prepared "to defend the case. I have watched the" reports of proceedings of these cases in the local newspaper. Invariably they are not defended. But still, it takes up the time of the court and it takes up the time of the Department in preparing the summons. Someone has to be present at the court on the day that the summons is dealt with. I would suggest ' to the Minister that the Department should give some thought to on-the-spot fines in these cases where the inspector finds that someone has not got a licence. The inspector could give him a ticket, as is done for speeding or certain other breaches of the traffic laws. In such cases a man receives an on-the-spot fine. He can pay it if he wants to. Certain amounts are prescribed to be paid for committing the breaches. If a man knows that he is guilty of having exceeded the speed limit or having done something that the traffic laws say he should not do then within a certain time - I think it is 28 days - he pays the fine and that is the finish of it. He does not have to' appear before the court. The Police Department does not then have to go through the process one has to go through here, of drawing up a summons, serving it and having the court hear it. If a person says: 'I did not exceed the speed limit and I am going to take on the police', he has the right to do so. The case is then dealt with in court and the person can exercise his civil rights in the court to challenge the evidence given by the police. 
This same idea has been extended a bit further in New South Wales now with onthespot fines for people who throw litter on the streets, in parks and in other places. The process is simple. A person is fined $5 for a certain offence. If he wants to pay it he pays it within 28 days. If he does not want to pay it he can go to court and fight the council or whoever served the summons. I cannot see anything wrong with a similar procedure being adopted in relation to television licences. I do not think any of us would suggest for 1 second that a person who does not have a television viewers' licence has committed some serious crime that requires him to be brought to court to be dealt with, lt is a clear cut case. It is a simple breach of the law. 
Another aspect to be taken into account is that a lot of people who are quite law abiding citizens overlook the need to renew their licence. They are then dragged into court. I know a lot of people who are worried not by the fine but by the though! that they have had to be dealt with by the court. I think my suggestion is a way in which the Minister could easily get around this problem. He could forget about the procedures of drawing up and serving summonses and rights of appeal and all the rest of it. It is an opportunity to get with the times. I say that to the Minister advisedly: In this field 1 think it is an excellent opportunity to eliminate all the unnecessary court procedure and substitute for it a simple process. If a person gets a ticket and he knows he is guilty he can pay the fine and that is the finish of it. 
We know that in the main very few of these people are fined in excess of about $20. The only people who deliberately refrained from taking out licences were some of the radio and television personalities. I remember one person in particular whom I will not name because he is no longer with us. I think it was part of his act to get fined periodically. This was before we had television in Australia. He periodically got fined for not having a radio listeners licence. As I said, I think all the show that he used to put on at that time was part of his act. I think he deliberately failed to renew his licence so that he could get the publicity. It all worked into his programme. That is just my impression of what he did, because he was fined too often to forget his renew his licence. But I am talking rather about the average citizen who forgets to renew it. 
Not very long ago I made representations to the M. iii ster on behalf of a constituent and a friend who assured me that he had genuinely omitted to renew his licence. But this fellow still had to go through the court. Against my advice he took a day off work to appear in court. With a system of on the spot fines he could have settled the matter immediately. He probably would have been fined $10 for his first offence and $20 for his second. The Minister could decide the amount of the fines. It is only a very minor offence. I am simply putting the suggestion forward in good faith in the hope that the Minister will give it serious consideration. I do not necessarily wish to move an amendment to this effect at this stage but the next time this particular portion of the Act is being considered I hope that the Government will do something about the position by way of an amendment. 
asked the  Prime  Minister, upon notice: 
 Which Commonwealth departments have entered floats in (a) Sydney's Waratah Festival and (b) Melbourne's Moomba Festival. 
In which years were floats entered. 
What was the cost of each float. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What (a) imports and (b) exports were carried by container ships in 1969-70. 
What percentage of non-bulk (a) imports and (b) exports did this represent. 
Has the Government carried out any cost/benefit analysis since the introduction of container ships; if so, what was the result of this survey, and how does it compare with overseas results. 
If such a survey has not been undertaken, is one under consideration; if not, why cot. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement on the economy that he made in this place on Tuesday night, in particular his reference to the proposed reduction in the staff intake of the Commonwealth Public Service. He said: 
. the Board's original projection was that the Service would grow by 10,534 in 1970-71. This growth has been cut by 2,735. 
Has the normal intake of school leavers been accepted into the Public Service this year, or will the burden of the cut in employment be thrown on to this class of person? Have the young men who would normally be accepted as apprentices and trainees in the various Commonwealth Government Departments, such as the Department of the Navy, the Department of Supply and all the other departments which normally take a substantial number of apprentices and trainees each year, been denied the opportunity to receive skilled training? Can the Prime Minister give us any details of the types of people who have been debarred from employment in the Commonwealth Public Service? 
Has the Prime Minister seen statements that an increase in the price of steel can be expected in the very near future? Would any increase in the price of steel have a serious effect on prices? Was the 3 per cent increase in the price of steel early in 1970 justified? Did the Government conduct any inquiry to satisfy itself that the increase was reasonable? Does the Government intend to take any action to prevent Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd from increasing the price of steel similar to the action taken by President Nixon when the American steel industry threatened to increase its prices in 1970? Has BHP over the years received great assistance and protection from the Tariff Board to develop the steel industry in Australia? 
1 wish to raise a matter which I consider is of great importance. 1 refer to the recent announcement by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd that it had made a 52 per cent increase in its profits in the 6 months ended 30th November 1970. A number of questions were directed today to various Ministers including the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden).  One of the things that concerned me was the crocodile tears that were shed by those people on behalf of BHP. 
I know that they are battling; they are having a bad trot. I would like to put on record tonight the true position so far as the finances of this company are concerned. Before I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard some figures which have been prepared for me by the Library Legislative Research Service I would just like to read to the House from the 'Australian Financial Review' of 19th August 1970. lt stated: 
It was not iron ore nor was it oil and gas. For BHP Co. Ltd 1969-70 was the year of the Great Steel Bonanza. 
The great steel bonanza was last year when this company made a profit . of 59,796,000 which represented a 21.3 per cent earning rate on ordinary capital. Since then, in the first 6 months of this year, the company has added another 52 per cent to that. The Prime Minister is not the least bit concerned. In fact, he went to great lengths at question time today to point out to honourable members and to the nation that this great company was not making exorbitant profits, that this additional 52 per cent was not exorbitant and that after all the company had a huge investment in oil and natural gas which was now to pay huge dividends. But what the Prime Minister did not tell honourable members was that if this huge expenditure had failed and the search for oil and gas in Bass Strait had not been a success, this loss would have been a tax deduction and nearly all of it would have been written off. So in actual fact this great company would not have lost anything. 
The threat is the  Chairman  of Directors' statement on the half-yearly state of affairs where he said that in the first 6 months of the company's financial trading this year it had the effect of the last S3 per ton increase in steel but had not got the production because of industrial disputes. What else can the unions do? What other actions can unions take than to demand an increase in wages, when we read statements in the Press such as the one I have just read? As a matter of fact, I read only the headlines. As I said earlier,'' I have the facts and I will shortly seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a document which clearly sets out the huge profits which 'are being made by this company. The unions in Newcastle, Port Kembla, Kwinana' and Whyalla have been conducting a campaign for an increase in wages. This great benevolent company which is making these huge profits is not prepared to pay to its employees a fair and reasonable share of these profits. It wants to corner the market; it wants the whole profit for its shareholders. This has been the attitude of BHP ' for as long as I have known the company. I first started  work wilh BHP in 1935 as an apprentice. The company was no different then. It has opposed continuously any attempt by the trade unions and the workers to get some share of the profits which it is making. I think it is time that we had a real look at this company. 
If the workers have to go to arbitration why does not this company have to go to arbitration. A list of the increases in the price of steel from 1949 to the present time shows that not on one occasion did the- company have to go to arbitration to get ' authority from anyone to increase the price of its steel. So that it will be possible to examine the amount of increases, with the concurrence of honourable members 1 incorporate in Hansard a table which has been  prepared by *the Library Research Section. 

<graphic href="071131197102243_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table clearly sets out the movement in steel prices that this company has been able to get away with. The increase of $3 per ton in 1970 represented an increase, according to General Motors-Holden, of $25 on every Holden Special which was purchased after the increase in the price of steel had taken effect. This also applied to many other commodities such as refrigerators. The Fe was an increase in the price of anything that contained steel as a result of the increased price of steel set by BHP. 
This company got 'away with its price increase. 
The other matter I want to refer to is the increase in the share value of this company and the way in which it has been able to make new issues. In the limited time available to me I want to give a few facts.' So that the facts may be clearly taken from Hansard, with the concurrence of honourbale members I incorporate two tables which have been provided by the Library Research Section and which show the growth of capital. 

<graphic href="071131197102243_64_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197102243_64_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197102243_65_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197102243_66_4.jpg"></graphic>

I would like to summarise this table quickly. Take the case of a person who held 100 shares in BHP in 1950. There have been issues of 1 for 5 in 1955 at $2; 1 for 5 in 1957; 2 for 9 bonus in 1958; 1 for 5 in the same year; 1 for 5 in 1959; 1 for 2 in 1961; 1 for 6 in 1962; 1 for 7 in 1966; and 1 for 14 in 1969. Some of these issues carried a premium of $2 a share and others a premium of $3. In fact, all of them were S2 with the exception of the 1 for 14 issue which was $3. The 1 for 2 bonus issue was for $2. Anyone who had held 100 shares in 1950 today would have 527 shares in BHP. It would have cost the person acquiring those additional 427 shares an additional $549. In 1950 those 100 shares were valued, as these tables show, at $565. The 527 shares which the shareholder would now hold are valued on today's valuation at $7,2 19.90. 
The Prime Minister talks about this great company making only 6.2 per cent on capital invested. I accept the facts con tained in the document I have incorporated because it has been prepared by the Sydney Stock Exchange Company Statistical Service. These authentic figures show that the earning rate of ordinary capital in 1970 was 21.30 per cent. I do not know from where the Prime Minister obtains the figure of 6.2 per cent or 6.28 per cent or something of that nature on capital invested. These are the facts of the earning rate of ordinary capital. I think it is time that the Government stepped in and said to this company: 'If you peg wages you will have to justify every price increase which you decide to impose'. In the United States of America President Kennedy and President Nixon have at various times been forced to take this action. They have curbed the steel industry in that country and stopped it from arbitrarily introducing price increases which were not subject to inquiry by any government authority. 
However, BHP made a decision over the board that prices would increase and that  was it: Everyone had to take it. From the figures that l have disclosed tonight in the limited time available to me it is obvious that BHP is a law unto itself. It charges what it likes for its steel. It guarantees an assured, exorbitant profit. Whilst last year the company said its profit was only 11 per cent in reality for the person who has held shares for the last 20 years - and I have only taken 1955, bearing in mind that many of these shares have been held by families ever since BHP was BHP - today would find that an 1 1 per cent dividend was in actual fact about 57 per cent. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
How many non-European migrants (a) arrived and (b) departed during each of the past 10 years. 
How many of these people were naturalised during each year and what was their country of origin. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives  m  Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized clases and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Bill before the House is concerned with a grant of financial assistance to the State of New South Wales for the purpose of flood mitigation works on the Tweed, Richmond, Clarence, Macleay, Hunter, Shoalhaven, Bellinger. Hastings, Manning, Hawkesbury and Moruya Rivers. The rate of subsidy will be on the basis of $2 by the Commonwealth, $2 by the State and $1 by the local authority, with the exception of the Hunter River where the subsidy will be on the basis of $3 by the Commonwealth, $3 by the State and $1 by the local authority. Under this Bill the Commonwealth is to provide $9m which, together with the $9m provided by the State, will give considerable assistance to the State Government and the local authorities and will enable them to take greater steps in carrying out this work than have been taken to the present time. 
One of the heartening things about this Bill is that the grant of assistance will be made retrospective to 1st July 1969. But a matter which concerns me - and my electorate is in the Hunter Valley - is the fact that we have had to wait almost 20 months for the Government to make up its mind to introduce this Bill which makes money available for the work to be carried out. In the flood which occurred in the Hunter Valley on 1st, 2nd- and 3rd February last a considerable amount of damage was done purely and simply because certain work had not been undertaken. If the Government had made up its mind earlier, this work could have proceeded and a lot of damage which did occur would not have occurred. A number of farms which have been put out of production would not have been put out of production and losses would not have been incurred by the occupants of those farms. This is a matter with which I should like to deal later. 
As we are all aware, the Hunter Valley contains one of the most fertile river plains in Australia. In the lower Hunter River area there are approximately 94,000 acres of some of the most fertile land in Australia. This land is available to be used for intensive cultivation and to obtain a quick turnover of the commodities which are required, such as lucerne and green vegetables which are sent to the adjacent cities of Newcastle, Cessnock, Maitland and also Sydney. As a lot of this land is now unproductive and will remain unproductive for some considerable time, this Government has to do something about the matter, and I hope that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  in his reply to this debate, will be able to say why the Government has not taken earlier the steps which it is taking tonight in order to provide the necessary finance for this flood mitigation scheme. 
Up to date a considerable amount of money has been spent on making improvements in the Hunter River Valley, and 1 want to quote from a publication which was prepared by the New South Wales Department of Public Works. It discloses that the work which has already been carried out in the Hunter River Valley has been most effective. It shows that the following work has been completed: 60 miles of levees, including spillways; 8 miles of control and diversion banks; 0.6 miles of pilot channels; 5 miles of bank protection; 40 miles of flood canals; 14 miles of stream improvements; 70 flood gates; and 65 farm crossings. This report covers the period to the end of 1969. It is the latest information available. The report for the following year has not yet been sent to the Government Printer. This report gives some indication of the amount of money which has been spent on flood mitigation work on the Hunter River. The work is similar to that which has been carried out on other rivers which have already been included in the scheme. The first 6 rivers on which work was undertaken were the Tweed, Richmond, Clarence, Macleay, Hunter and Shoalhaven. The work which has been carried out on all these rivers has resulted in increased production worth millions of dollars. But this Government refrained from carrying out work in these river systems for some considerable time, and I will deal with that matter shortly. 
We have reached the stage where the Government has now made up its mind to proceed with work on the rivers to which I have referred. It is remarkable that the Government decides to carry out flood mitigation work when it gets into trouble. In 1963 the Government was in trouble. After the 1961 elections it had a majority of only one. On the eve of the 3963 elections the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, brought down in this place the first flood mitigation Bill which provided for Commonwealth expenditure of some $8m. Further work was not undertaken, but now it is obvious that the Government has again got into trouble. We find that some 20 months after the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made a statement on this matter, the Government finally has introduced the Bill which we are presently debating. It would appear that the only time when the States or the people involved in this flood mitigation work can expect any assistance from the Commonwealth Liberal-Country Party Government is when it is confronted with some economic problems such as those which are facing it today. At that stage this is one of the election gimmicks which the Government uses. 
As I said earlier, the recent flood to which the Hunter Valley has been subjected and which is now subsiding has caused a considerable amount of damage. I spent nearly the whole of yesterday with  Mr Unicomb  the Labor candidate for the electorate of Paterson at the next Federal election, and 1 am confident that he will be the next member for Paterson. He gave me a very good account of what work has been carried out and of the damage which was caused in the flood. I found that work was stopped on the Oakhampton spillway because the Government's contribution to the scheme was not made until after 1969. This spillway was breached in a number of places. This resulted in floodwaters coming over the top of the spillway into the ponding area, filling this area more quickly than would otherwise have been the case and breaking the banks of another spillway which should have held back the water. This is typical of some of the tragedies which occur in these valleys when there is a heavy concentration of rain such as that which was experienced in the Hunter Valley recently. 
There were numerous other examples of similar damage occurring because work had not been carried out. The river broke its banks at Bolwarra, and immediately there was flooding in that area. As the river was heavy with sand, sand flowed over and now thousands of tons of sand have been dumped onto properties making them almost non-productive for some considerable time. These properties will be non-productive until such time as the owner can remove the sand. At the present time one owner is removing sand from his farm by using a new method of ploughing. The bottom soil can be brought to the top and the sand ploughed to the bottom. Some farmers in discussion with me yesterday indicated that at the present time their farms, which were inundated with sand in the 1955 flood, are again inundated with sand, and that where they have not been able to get rid of it there has been a marked difference in the yield from the crop when compared with the yield from crops planted in the natural alluvial soil in the Hunter Valley. This has resulted in a part of the crop being destroyed or becoming non-productive, and it has meant a considerable loss of earnings to these people. 
At another place Wyburn's levee was breached, which resulted in the New England Highway being closed for a couple of days. The same thing happened to the railways. The railway line was cut for 12 to 14 hours which resulted in considerable loss to the New South Wales Railways and caused considerable inconvenience to the people who were travelling by rail. This was another example of work not being completed because of insufficient funds. In late 1969 when no additional Commonwealth money was forthcoming the Department of Public Works had to terminate the services of either a number of its own employees or the contract people whom it was employing at that time. 
One of the great tragedies of this recent flood, as has been the case with respect to all previous floods, is the way in which the banks of our river are taken away by flood. In one section where the bank was 20 feet to 22 feet high a section of 60 feet has been torn away. This huge slab of some of the most beautiful alluvial soil that one could ever wish to see has been destroyed. Another result is that the river changes its course. The river builds up on one side while its other side is torn away. It is no use what ever for the river to build up in the area that it does. 
One of the things that concerns me as the member for Newcastle is the fact that all this erosion which has taken place as a result of these floods - I have been unable to obtain confirmation of this information - has led to a reduction in the depth of the steel works channel from the Dyke end to the BHP wharf in the Port of Newcastle. As a result of siltation, the depth of this channel has been reduced from 36 feet to 33 feet. I ask honourable members to work out the significance of the reduction of the whole of that channel from a depth of 36 feet to 33 feet. This silt has been carried down the river from the upper reaches and the lower reaches of the Hunter River. It has all finished up in the Port of Newcastle. Let us consider the effect that significant siltation like this has on the flow of the river. In the basin the depth has been reduced from 36 feet to 35 feet. This means that ships using the port of Newcastle cannot enter the port as heavily laden as they would normally be capable of being loaded. 
The same thing can be said about the basin area. This will cost the owners of these ships thousands of dollars in increased freight over a period because their ships are not able to carry the amount of cargo that they normally would carry. What does this siltation cost? It is estimated that, in normal circumstances, it would cost the Martime Services Board of New South Wales approximately $lm to remove the silt from the port of Newcastle by dredging. The farmers in the Hunter River valley will have lost approximately $lm in crops destroyed. Approximately 35,000 acres of farm land, including some of the richest farms in Australia, will be out of production for at least another 6 months. All one can see in the valley is huge areas of farm land covered by water. It will take several months for that water to drain away, lt will be some considerable time after that before the farmers will be able to undertake any ploughing and get their farms into production again. So, the farmers will lose money. Not only have they lost approximately $lm worth of crops but also they will have no incomes whatever for the next 6 months. In some cases, the period may be longer than that. 
Honourable members can see what is happening with local government, lt is estimated that repairs to flood damaged roads, bridges and similar local government facilities such as drains will cost $100,000. In my opinion, the figure is a moderate estimate of the damage which has been caused as the result of the flooding of roads. What does this mean? It means that as traffic continues to move over these roads, the surfaces will break up. The estimate of $100,000 is a moderate one. I believe the final figure will be far in excess of that amount. 
It can be seen from what I have said already tonight that this Government is to be condemned for having failed to continue the previous agreement for the past 20 months. The Hunter Valley Conservation Trust, which is charged with the responsibility of carrying out this work, did not know where it was going. It was told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech in 1969 that his Government would continue the scheme. But it has taken 20 months for the Prime Minister, or the Minister responsible for this proposal, to introduce a simple Bill that requires little drafting. The Government cannot say that it has not had draftsmen available to prepare the legislation because this Bill is a simple piece of legislation which could have been introduced during the first full week that the Parliament sat following its resumption after the last election. 
If we consider the matter overall, we shall see that the Government itself must accept some responsibility for this total loss of production and earnings by some of these people in the lower Hunter valley area. As I have pointed out already, at least Sim in crops has been lost together with loss of incomes for at least half a year. Some of the people to whom I have spoken are taking what has happened quite philosophically. Their attitude is: 'Well, we have been putting up with it for some considerable time'. 1 think that 36 major floods have occurred in the Hunter valley over the last 68 years. So, the people have become quite accustomed to floods. But it is time to mitigate the effect of these floods. Referring to the legislation, I think that what is proposed can be marked down to the credit of a former member for Cowper,  Mr Frank  McGuren. 
We may run him as a candidate. If we do, the Country Party can say goodbye to Robinson. The Country Party has already lost the seat of Casino in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly in the last election and it was battling to hold the seat of Clarence. So, the Minister can take it from me that, if McGuren runs, he will give it a shake and the new member for Cowper in this House will be in the ranks of the Labor Party. 
It is in the Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will deal with you in a moment. This Bill could be classified as the McGuren flood mitigation legislation. Honourable members who were here in 1962 will recall the number of times when Frank McGuren asked questions and moved motions on this subject. For example, on 4th October 1962 during the discussion on the Advance to the Treasurer, Frank McGuren moved: 
That the amount of the vote - 'Department of the Treasury, 66,442,000'- be reduced by 1- As an instruction to the Government - To make an immediate grant on a 1 for 1 basis with the New South Wales Government for the urgent and imperative work being carried out by the county councils to mitigate and control the frequent and disastrous floods in the northern rivers of New South Wales, in order to preserve the valuable production of the great north coast farming areas and prevent the heavy economic losses which follow these floods. 
That was a sensible approach to the problem. At approximately the same time the then Leader of the Opposition, the present right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  made a public statement following a visit to the north coast of New South Wales by members of the National Development Committee of the Australian Labor Party who discussed the problem of flooding with various flood mitigation councils. The then Leader of the Opposition announced that the next Labor government would subsidise on a 1 for 1 basis expenditure by the New South Wales Government on flood mitigation. This promise upset the Country Party whose members ridiculed the proposal every time Frank McGuren raised this subject in the Parliament. 
Let us look at what the present Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  had to say in reply to the amendment moved by Frank McGuren to which I have just referred. The present  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 
Is it any wonder that the people in this area are concerned? Yet this member for Cowper comes here and has the audacity to say that the Commonwealth Government should give money for flood control works. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Newcastle, Lake Macquarie and the Hunter Valley areas respectfully showeth: 
That the Queensland Aboriginal and Islanders Act is Discriminatory 
That Article 1 of Declaration of Human Rights says: 
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.' 
That Queensland Aborigines and Islanders are not equal, in that they are not entitled to use their money or property as they so desire. 
That this Legislation should immediately be repealed. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps towards the abolition of this discriminatory Legislation, by applying pressure to the Queensland Government. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many scheduled flights by (a) Trans-Australia Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines out of (i) Sydney (ii) Melbourne (iii) Brisbane (iv) Adelaide (v) Perth and (vi) Canberra in the last 12 months have been more than 30 minutes late. 
What was the reason for the delay in each case. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many road accidents were there in each stale and the Australian Capital Territory in the last full year for which statistics .lie available. 
How many people were (a) Injured and (b) Killed in these accidents. 
How many (a) Accidents, (b) Death-., and (c) Injuries occurred in ti) 35 mph, (ii) 45 mph. (iii) 60 mph and (iv) 65 mph zones. 
How many of these accidents occurred on divided carriageway roads. 
What is the estimated accident rate on divided carriageway roads compared with accidents on roads with no physical barrier such as a concrete median strip. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon not ice: 
ls it a fact that on 29th January 1971, at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport there was a near serious accident between a Canadian Pacific DCS aircraft and a Trans Australia Airlines Boeing 727. 
If so, did the Department of Civil Aviation commence an inquiry into the accident. 
If an inquiry was held, what was the result. 
I wish to bring forward a matter relative to Service pay and conditions in the Royal Australian Air Force. This Government, during its term of office, has laid great stress on the fact that it has a first class force in the RAAF, in the Navy and in the Army, but I want to mention a few small matters which bring out the discontent that exists in the Service today. The first one deals with the most important subject of money. Do honourable members realise that the 6 per cent increase in the minimum wage, which was granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission last year and which was to flow on to all RAAF personnel as from the first pay period after 1st January 1971, just as it was to flow on to those employed in civil occupations, has not been awarded to date to RAAF personnel? They were promised that they would receive this increase in the first pay period in March. Then it was stretched to the second pay period in March. As a result of inquiries which I made on behalf of some of the people associated with the base at Williamtown near Newcastle, I found out that the 6 per cent increase will not be paid until 22nd April - 16 weeks after people employed in civilian occupations received it. 
I hope that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  who represents in this place the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  can give me some explanation why Service personnel have to wait 16 weeks longer than everyone else, particularly people in private industry, to receive the increases that are granted by the Arbitration Commission. This decision was given early in December 1970, which means that an additional 4 weeks have to be added to the 16 weeks that I mentioned. The decision was not sprung on the Department of Air at the last moment. The Department has known about it for as long as everyone else in private industry has known about it. Service rates are based, to some degree, on the amounts paid to private industry. I hope that the Minister can give me some explanation why these people in the RAAF have to wait until 22nd April before they will get the 6 per cent increase. 1 would also like to draw attention to the difference in wages received by men in the Services and men who are employed by private airlines. The men in the Services perform almost identical work and work which is of a more skilled nature than men employed by the private airlines. I refer to leading aircraftsmen with the classification of air frame fitter, engine fitter and electrical finer who are on a base rate of 60.41 per week. A married man in this category receives a marriage allowance of $12.95 a week. Of course the single man receives his board and from that one can work out whatever rate one likes. However, both married and single men receive a uniform allowance of $1.96 a week. This means that the married man receives $74.32 a week and the single man $62.37 plus his board. After 5 years service he receives an increment of $1.50 a week. This increment is paid for every 5 years of service. Therefore, after 20 years service he will receive total increments of $6 a week. 
I also want  to  refer to the classification of leading aircraftsman - radio technical.  His  base rate is $65.80 plus the usual $12.95 marriage allowance and Si. 96 uniform allowance. A married serviceman with this classification would receive a base rate of $80.71 a week and a single man would receive $67.76 a week. 1 want to compare these amounts with what is paid to licensed aircraft maintenance engineers who work in private industry for Australia's airlines. I am comparing 2 classifications of men who are doing identical work. There is no difference in the work that they are asked to perform. The men who work in private industry are licensed. They receive licenses which are issued by the Department of Civil Aviation which allow them to perform this basic work. They receive ratings on top of this. This means that the work that is performed by both the men in the Services and men in private industry is of an identical standard. In fact, today we find that most of the men working in private industry who are members of the Licensed Aircraft Maintenance Engineers Association are former service mechanics, air frame fitters, engine fitters and electrical fitters. Private industry is drawing its recruits from the Services because of the discontent that has arisen from the bad pay that servicemen receive. 
I should like to draw attention once again to the category of LAC - radio technical who receives a base rate as a married man of 80.71 a week. If he worked in private industry he would have a base rate of $87.50 a week which is over $5 a week more. If a man working in private industry has 2 to 3 ratings he .will receive an additional S3. 85 a week. If he has 4 to 6 ratings he will receive $7.70 a week more and if he has 7 or more ratings he will receive $11.55 more a week. I want to emphasise that most of the men working for the private airline industry are entitled to a rating of 7 or more: This means that their weekly wage would be $99.5 as against the paltry $80.71 received by a married serviceman who is doing the same work and has the same responsibility. The single serviceman would receive $67.76. 
I made the comment a moment ago that increments of $1.50 a week every 5 years were paid to RAAF personnel. However, if servicemen were to work in private industry for the airlines they would receive an increment of S2 a week after each of their first 3 years of employment. Therefore a man in private industry would have to be employed by an airline for only 3 years in order to receive total increments of $6 a week. A serviceman would have to be a member of the Royal Australian Air Force for at least 20 years before he received that increment. These are only some of the extraordinary examples of poor pay and only some of the reasons for the discontent that exists in the RAAF today. I can elaborate further but I do not have the time to take in the cooks, stewards, gardeners and the various other employees who are employed by the RAAF. 
One of the worst features is the overtime provision. A man in private industry who works overtime gets time and a half for the first 4 hours and double time thereafter. If he works on a Saturday he gets time and a half for the first 4 hours and double time thereafter. If he is required to work on a Sunday he is paid double time for the lot. But what happens to his counterpart in the RAAF? He receives time off in lieu of having to work overtime, but before he can get any time off in lieu he must work at least 8 hours overtime in any one week, which means that he does not get anything for working overtime. 1 repeat that the man in private industry gets penalty rates for the extra time spent working overtime, but the man in the Services gets time ofl' provided he works at least 8 hours in any one week on top of that, because of the shortage of labour and so on in the Services today, the man in the Services must take the time off in lieu within 28 days of accumulating it and if he does not take it off within the 28 days he loses it altogether. This is an example of just one of the anomalies in existence in the Services today. 
The question of overtime is serious because the fact that men are taking time off in lieu or are losing it altogether does not show up the shortage in personnel and the amount of time which is being worked outside normal hours. We are not at war; we are at peace. Therefore, the work which is being carried on in the RAAF should be done at reasonable times in the hours in which men are required to work. After all, they work the same hours in the Services as they would work if they were in private industry. If they work the same hours why should they not be paid overtime? If they were paid overtime it would show up the real position, which is that there is a shortage of labour and there is a large amount of work being performed outside the normal working hours. I do not have time to bring forward the other matters which need attention and airing in this place. These include such things as the fact that private employees employed at Williamtown receive a $7 a fortnight disability allowance but the RAAF personnel get nothing. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice: 
How many people died in 1969 from (a) road accidents, (b) a heart condition, (c) a kidney condition, (d) tuberculosis, (e) cancer and (f) childbirth. 
In directing a question to the Prime Minister I am fully aware that the question relates to an incident which occurred when the right honourable gentleman was Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Is he aware that some of the directors of Jetair Australia Limited were also directors of a large bankrupt company? Is it correct that Jetair Australia Limited had a paid up capital of only $77.50? Did the Department of Foreign Affairs depart from accepted government procedure of calling public tenders when it recently purchased from 
Jetair Australia Limited 6 DC3 aircraft at a total cost of $275,000? In view of the unsavoury background of some of the directors of Jetair Australia Limited- 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
On what date and by what amounts were shipping freights increased by each shipping conference in respect of (a) conventional, (b) cellular container and (c) roll-on, roll-off ships over the last 10 years. 
 I present the following petition: 
To The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned wives of serving R.A.A.F. members most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to alleviate the inadequate rates of pay, allowances and conditions existing in the Armed Forces at present. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In rising to speak to the matter of public importance I have tabled, I wish clearly to outline the attitude of the Opposition in this field. Australia has one cf the best civil aviation safety records in the world and one of the worst road fatality and accident records in the more highly developed and motorised countries of the world. That statement can be borne out with facts published recently by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in New York, an independent authority that has prepared a table which honourable members can obtain from the research section of the Library and which clearly shows the average mortality rate per 100,000 registered vehicles in various countries. 
I wish to go through the figures quickly. They show that Norway has a mortality rate of 53.4 per 100,000 registered vehicles, the United States of America 54.4, New Zealand 56.1, the United Kingdom 59.1, Denmark 61.2, France 67.9, the Netherlands 71.5, Canada 76 and Australia the alarming figure of 78.7. I know that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will be able to draw attention to perhaps 2 other countries in the category to which I have referred, which have worse records. But the fact of the matter is that on the figures I have quoted the Australian figure is sufficiently serious to warrant some very positive action by the Commonwealth Parliament. 
Let me refer now to accidents in Australia. In 1969 there were 62,617 accidents, 3,502 people were killed and 87,888 people were injured as a result of those accidents. I believe that in round figures the statistics for 1970 are that 3,800 people were killed and 92,000 people were injured as a result of accidents. Various estimates or guesstimates have been made of what this costs the national economy. On various figures that have been quoted from time to time, the cost is in the vicinity of $400m to $500m a year. On those figures alone, the loss of life and the cost are sufficient to warrant some very positive action. 
We on this side of the House believe that one of the major steps that the Commonwealth should be taking to overcome the problem of the carnage on our roads today is to provide more money for roads. Whether it be on the basis of the Commonwealth carrying out certain road construction or paying the direct cost of certain roads, at least the Commonwealth should make money available. In the 10-year period 1959 to 1969 the Commonwealth Treasury had a surplus of $598m over the amount it made available to the States. That money was collected from a source of revenue which is popularly known as petrol tax. Although no firm figures are provided in the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement covering the current 5- year period I estimate that the Commonwealth will make available to the States S 1,252m which will leave the Treasury with a surplus of approximately $700m. lt is time the Commonwealth Government made available to the States all or a substantial portion of that $700m or undertook some positive programme to improve the standard of roads in Australia. 
It is obvious that there is a great need for improvement in our general road structure. For instance, in recent years the percentage of road accidents involving two or more vehicles has fluctuated between 54 per cent and 59 per cent of the total number of road accidents. On tollways, where it is almost impossible for an accident to involve two or more vehicles the percentage is as low as 12 per cent. The latter figure was recently released by the New South Wales Department of Main Roads and it relates to the Newcastle to Sydney tollway which carries a large volume of traffic. Those percentages give a clear indication of the position. 
In reply to a question I asked of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  he informed me in March that the Road Research Laboratory in the United Kingdom had found that accidents involving two or more vehicles had been reduced by 30 per cent where divided carriageways had replaced roads carrying two-way traffic. There is clear evidence of the need for something to be done about the construction of roads in Australia. Throughout the Commonwealth 20 per cent of all accidents involve collisions between vehicles and fixed objects such as a tree or a rock. On 
There are many points about which 1 could speak in relation to our roads, such as street lighting, sign posts and so on, but ] have sufficient time in this debate to deal with only the major issues. I reiterate that 20 per cent of all accidents in the Commonwealth are attributable to collisions between vehicles and fixed objects and that in the country areas the position is much worse. The position in rural areas is twice as bad as it is in the city areas. In the limited time available to me I want to deal with other matters in which I consider the Commonwealth should be leading the field. The first matter is that  of  seat belts. In the past Ministers for Shipping and Transport have been weak and have not had the courage to do something positive about seat belts. I congratulate the Victorian Minister for Transport and the Victorian Government on having the intestinal fortitude to introduce legislation for the compulsory wearing of seat belts. I think this is something which should have been introduced a long time ago in this country. I believe the Federal Parliament should have been the one to lead the way. The Minister for Shipping and Transport should set the pattern. 
Research in the United States has shown that injuries have been reduced by up to 
Another important matter which I believe warrants further examination is the obligation on drivers to give way to vehicles on their right. Why is it that Australia is the only major country which applies this antiquated regulation of give way to the right? If you are on a main highway and you come to a minor gravel track on your right leading into the bush some idiot can come flying out of that track and force you to give way to him. When this happens it usually results in a serious accident. The United States and the United Kingdom have introduced a system of major and minor roads which I honestly believe is better than our system of giving way to the right. We have stop signs at intersections but because a driver is on the right of a vehicle facing a stop sign he expects to be given the right of way. This situation has led to many accidents in Australia. There are no firm figures of the number of accidents caused by failure to give way to the right. The best information I have been able to obtain is that 10 per cent to 20 per cent of all accidents in Australia result from a failure to give way to the right. Some accidents involving a failure to give way to the right are attributed to drinking or some other cause, but the fact is that failure to give way to the right is one of the major reasons why there are so many accidents and fatalities in Australia today. This is a field in which the Commonwealth should set the pattern. It is something that we cannot have in the Territories alone; it has to be Australia-wide. This Government and the State governments should set aside politics and do something positive about this matter. 
Alcohol contributes to  50  per cent of all serious accidents in Australia today. I am a teetotaller but I believe that the breathalyser system has been a failure. All it has done has been to scare off the law abiding citizen who has done his best to uphold the law of the land. This type of person has probably been at a party and has failed to pass the breathalyser test given following a minor breach of the traffic laws. The Government should carry out extensive research into the problems of alcohol. It is alleged that in the vicinity of  250,000  people in Australia have a drinking problem. That is roughly  2  per cent of the population. One of the principal recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety was that there should be research into the problems of alcohol but this Government has done nothing about it. Nothing has been done to overcome the problems and stresses created by alcohol in relation to road safety or society generally. The Government should inquire into this problem with a view to overcoming the social and road safety problems involved. 
It does not mean a thing to cancel a driver's licence or to impose a fine on him. As has been clearly disclosed by overseas research, the number of unlicensed drivers is increasing. The young people of today just do not care. Their licences can be cancelled or they can be fined, but they are still going to drive their motor cars and they are still going to drink. It is up to the Federal and State governments - I place most of the responsibility on the Federal Government because it has more money to allocate for projects of this type - to carry out some positive research into the problems associated with alcohol. 
I would like the Minister to give some explanation for the Government's failure to do something positive in this field where alcohol is responsible for  50  per cent of all road fatalities and serious road accidents. It is worth having a look at the matter. It is worth coming up with some possible solution to the problem. In the matter of driver education, we know that approximately  11  per cent of driving licence holders are under  20  years of age and they represent  21  per cent of the people involved in accidents. Yet this is the group in the community today that has probably been the most intensively educated in traffic problems and hazards. The question of education must be re-examined to see whether what we are doing is correct. 
Honourable members on this side of the House firmly and strongly recommend that the Government make additional money available for roads, whether it be on the basis of State participation or the Commonwealth doing the job itself. We want to see more money provided to overcome the major problems of road safety. The Government should be leading the field, as recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety, in research into road design, motor car use, the effects of alcohol, (he measurement of the success of the educational campaigns that have been undertaken, and the elimination of the 'give way to the right' rule and its replacement by 'give way' signs on side roads - a system which has proved to be quite successful in the Australian Capital Territory. It should be quite positive on the score' of compulsory wearing of seat belts. I strongly support the compulsory wearing of seat belts and the slogan: 'Belt up and stay alive'. 
1 wish to raise a matter which has received considerable publicity in the last few hours, namely, the announcement made by Captain Richie, the General Manager of Qantas Airways Ltd, which is owned by the Commonwealth of Australia, to the effect that 96 second officer pilots, 42 cadet pilots and 17 flight engineers had been given 6 months notice at a meeting at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport today. Captain Richie is reported to have said that reductions in non-profitable services and the cancellation of plans to extend Qantas services had reduced the requirement for flying hours by 10,000 hours this year. I do not have time to quote his full statement, but he is also reported to have said that overall staff economies will mean the airline should enter 1972 with more than 1,000 fewer employees than it had planned. 
I think the Parliament is entitled to some explanation from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  or his representative in this chamber of just what is happening with Qantas today. What is the real reason for this decision to terminate the services of so many highly skilled trained men in Qantas? A pilot or flight engineer cannot be trained overnight. Thousands of dollars have been poured into the training of these men, but what has happened to them? Their services have been abruptly terminated. The phoney part about this matter and what concerns me most is the fact that on 22nd February of this year 5 flight engineers were engaged by Qantas, but on 22nd April - 2 months later to the day - the same 5 flight engineers, together with 12 others, were given 6 months notice of the termination of their services. For some considerable time the management of Qantas has been begging the flight engineers and pilots to try to persuade any of their friends overseas who are anxious to come to Australia to do so. It has tried to rope in recruits by asking these people to tell their friends what a great place Australia is and what a great airline Qantas is to work for. Despite this we find notice being given of the termination of services. 
Early in February of this year Qantas announced that it was going to undertake a recruitment drive for pilots. It said that it would go overseas if need be to engage an additional 44 pilots. Less than 2 months later 96 pilots received dismissal notices. Why? I direct this question to the Minister at the table because I think honourable members are entitled to an answer. Up till March last year there were 25 new pilots engaged and 20 more cadet pilots were processed and put on the staff of Qantas. There are questions to which I think honourable members are entitled to answers. Where is this airline going? Last year it had an absolute profit in excess of $8m - I do not want to go to the book to quote the exact figure - but this year it is allegedly in serious economic strife. 
Why in the last 12 months did the Department of Civil Aviation grant permission for American Airlines to operate 3 flights a week into Australia from the west coast of America? Qantas took up the 3 corresponding flights to which it was entitled. Incidentally, I believe American Airlines is now pressing for an additional 2 flights a week from three to five. Pan American Airways has increased its carrying capacity with the addition of 2 jumbo jet flights into Sydney and is pressing now to bring 3 jumbo jets in each week. I believe that -Qantas in August will take delivery of its first jumbo jet and the remaining 3 aircraft will be taken over some time between then and the end of 1971, so that it will have these additional aircraft operating between Australia and overseas ports. Yet we are told by the General Manager that the number of skilled pilots and air crew I have mentioned will be dismissed in 6 months time. Whilst we may be prepared to accept this state of affairs, I ask: What is really happening to Qantas so far as charter operations are concerned? Are charter operations having a serious effect on the operations of Qantas? If so, what remedial action is contemplated by the airline? Does it intend to take action similar to that announced by British Overseas 
Airways Corporation to set up a subsidiary company and operate charter flights in opposition to charter operators? At the present time flights are going out of Sydney with a maximum number of passengers to Singapore at which point the airlines are losing their passengers to charter operators. 
These are the questions I hope the Minister can answer. Why, in the light of the forecasts of expansion made earlier this year, are we now told that Qantas will have to curtail its activities? Are the commercial managers of Qantas so inexperienced, so poor, so incapable of making reasonable forecasts of the operations of Qantas that within 2 months the airline goes from a recruiting expansion campaign to a campaign of contracting its affairs? To me the proposition is just too ludicrous to accept. I want some information from the Minister tonight on this subject and 1 ask him whether this situation has been brought about as a result of industrial trouble between Qantas and the airline pilots. Is it a fact that Qantas and the Federation of Airline Pilots cannot reach agreement on conditions applicable in the industry, particularly when the jumbo jets begin to operate? Is it a fact that the pilots are not trained and that the airline has no experienced air crews to take over the first jumbo in August or September this year, whichever date it becomes available, and the 3 jumbos which will become available almost immediately after? Is it because of the fact that Qantas has no experienced men to operate the jet that it has now taken other measures to bring about a settlement of the dispute? I am not in a position to answer these questions but it certainly seems strange to me and everyone in the industry. 
I talked to some of the people in the industry today and they were astounded when the information was conveyed to them this morning in quite a queer manner. I am advised that Qantas invited the union representatives to meet it in Qantas House at 10.30 a.m. At the same time a meeting of the aircrews and the men involved was held at Mascot. It all happened at 10.30 a.m. this morning. After the conference at Qantas House had concluded the union officials left the building to travel to Mascot. But when they came outside the building they saw to their surprise the newspaper posters about Qantas laying off a certain  number of pilots and all the rest of it. So it is obvious that this was a carefully prepared plan by the management of Qantas, designed in such a way that everything went like clockwork at the one time. 
I am wondering what the real answer to this question is. 1, in common with everyone else, will be interested to get from the Minister tonight some informataion as to what is the real answer to this question. Is it really economic circumstances which are forcing Qantas into this position, or is Qantas taking some retaliatory action against the pilots and the people employed in the industry by laying others off? If this is the case, it would not be the first time that an employer has adopted this tactic. When an employer cannot settle a legitimate dispute with his employees, he resorts to the use of the old weapons of layoffs. 
I hope that the Minister can give me the information that is required. This Parliament is entitled to some information in view of the fact that Qantas has a firm order for the 4 Jumbo or Boeing 747 aircraft that I have mentioned, recently it placed a firm order for an additional Jumbo and it has an option on another, which would give it 6 Jumbos all told. Also, Qantas has options on 4 Concords and 6 Boeing 270-300 aircraft. These aircraft cost a lot of money, and I think that we are entitled to some explanation. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many appeals to (a) an Entitlement Appeal Tribunal and (b) an Assessment Appeal Tribunal were received from ex-servicemen and women residing within a 50-mile radius of Newcastle during 1969-70. 
 I move: 
That a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the development of major airports and harbours. 
This is a matter which I consider is of national importance and one which is entitled to the consideration of this House. The object of moving this motion is to bring about greater member participation - by 'member participation', I mean greater participation by back bench members of this Parliament - in the affairs and the workings of the Parliament. During the last 10 years we have seen the Government, both in this House and in the Senate, agree to the appointment all told of 19 committees. Two of these 19 committees were joint statutory committees, 17 of the 19 committees were select committees. As time is not available to me to enumerate these committees, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard this table prepared by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library. It reads: 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications by (a) male and (b) female Yugoslav migrants were processed in (I) Vienna, (U) Belgrade, (iii) Rome or (iv) some other country during the last 12 months. 
 The House finally settles down to some business about 7 hours late. I think that this Bill was originally listed to come on at about 3 o'clock this afternoon. I know that what I am saying has nothing to do with this debate but I just like to rub a little bit of salt into the wound now and again. Because of the uncompromising attitude of the Government we are 7 hours behind time. 
The honourable member says that I am wasting time. I have plenty of it. He has wasted plenty of time. It is a bit boring to have to wait for so long when we have a government such as this. The 2 Bills before the House at present are the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971 and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1971 which are complementary pieces of legislation. One is dependent on the other for the operations of the stevedoring industry in Australia today. 
By these 2 Bills the Government will be able to levy sufficient money on a scale already agreed upon in accordance with labour employed in the industry so as to provide the necessary funds for long service leave, annual leave, sick leave, public holiday pay and the payment of redundancy allowance. This scheme was brought about as a result of a conference, constituted back in 1965, known as the National Stevedoring Industry Conference, lt was made up of representatives from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers Federation, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour and the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Following the taking of evidence a report from the Conference was brought down finally in 1967. The report was accepted by this Government. Some of the basic recommendations of the Conference provide for permanent employment in major ports, a pensions scheme for regular employees in all permanent and continuous ports and arrangements to cope with redundancy. The recommendations of the Conference are, I believe, a genuine attempt to bring some degree of stability to the Australian waterfront industry. The old system of casual labour was dispensed with and one of permanency, in which  a  man worked for the same employer every week, was substituted. Under the present system a man receives his wages, his sick leave, his holiday pay and his annual leave from his employer. He gets to know his employer. Previously a man would work for an employer one week and would work for another the next week, the next shift or the next day. As a result there was continual confusion and continuous trouble on the waterfront. 
The new system has brought some degree of stability to the waterfront industry. I believe it will bring a greater degree of stability and so eliminate many of the strikes which, from a union point of view, were necessary in the past to maintain the wages and conditions of men who worked on the waterfront. The Opposition supports this. Most of the money referred to in the Bills has been eaten up in providing for one of the major proposals in the agreement, namely, that relating to redundancy. As a result of mechanisation and new methods in the industry the degree of redundancy has increased. I shall cite 2 examples of the change which has taken place on the waterfront. Today 168 men are employed at the White Bay container terminal in Sydney. In the past 12 months they handled about H million tons of cargo, lt is difficult to arrive at an exact figure of how many men would have been employed if that amount of cargo had been handled by conventional methods, but in the old days of conventional shipping somewhere between 700 and 800 men would have been fully employed for 12 months to handle H million tons of cargo. 
Honourable members can see that there has been a major change in the industry and that men employed on the waterfront are entitled to the conditions and concessions which have been granted to them. The same thing can be said about Newcastle where 2 new coal loaders have been introduced. The first coal loader that was introduced in the river was of only minor consequence, but the second major coal loader installed in the coal loading basin has meant a considerable reduction in the employment of men. I state 2 clear examples. In the old days before coal loaders were installed about 800 men were employed on loading ships with coal. In 1970 the number of men was reduced to 130 and in that year they loaded 7,032,000 tons of coal. In 1965, before the last coal loader was installed, about 250 to 2 . 0 men handled 2,545,000 tons of coal. Honourable members are aware that there has been considerable mechanisation in the handling of cargo on the waterfront. 
We on this side feel that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has stated very clearly the position in his second reading speech on these Bills. He gave a clear analysis of just where the money came from originally, the way in which it has been disposed of and the necessity for the increased charges which have been recommended in these Bills. As to the number of voluntary redundancies, somewhere in the vicinity of 344 men have voluntarily agreed to leave this industry. The cost of voluntary redundancies amounts to $137,778 for long service leave; $407,226 for severance pay and $366,406 for pension fund payments, a total of about $911,410. The payment of this money has been necessary to persuade men to leave this industry. I think some men have made quite satisfactory arrangements. I have previously discussed numerous cases in this field. I know of one case in which a man would have had to work for the next 18 months for about $16 a week. Redundancy payments have in a number of cases persuaded men that now is an opportune time for them to get out of the industry. If it is necessary to make these men redundant they have to be paid and the industry as a whole should be prepared to bear the cost involved. This is what this Bill actually provides for. 
One question which has been asked of me is whether the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority agrees with the lowering of employee quotas in some ports. 1 will deal with one port I know fairly well, namely the Port of Newcastle. The employee quota at that port has been reduced to 450. Originally that port had a total employment of about 900 waterside workers and about 800 men handling coal. All the employees now come under the one union, the Waterside Workers' Federation, which covers the coal handling and the general cargo sections. When we realise that the number of employees has been reduced from about 1,700 to about 450 I think it is time for us to stop and have another look to determine whether a situa tion is being created whereby men are being pushed out of the industry - persuaded to leave the industry - or whether a natural wastage is being allowed to occur to the extent that the work force at that port is far too small in number. Since the introduction of the quota of 450 men there have been serious labour shortages in the Port of Newcastle. I think one of the worst labour shortages was in January this year when there was a shortage of 257 men, which is more than half the employee quota. When labour is not available ships are tied up and left lying idle. A ship which is lying idle in a port can incur a cost from $2,000 to $4,000 a day depending on the size of the vessel. These additional costs have to be passed on in increased service charges. 
This is a matter which the Government should take into consideration. I hope that the Government is satisfied that the quota system is in the best interests of the stevedoring industry in the handling of cargo in the ports of Australia. I can cite only one port but there must be numerous other ports in Australia in which ships are left lying idle because of a shortage of labour. The Waterside Workers" Federation is not prepared to provide casual labour, it is not prepared to go back to the old system of paying attendance money, of hiring casual employees and so on now that there is permanency for employees on the waterfront. 1 hope that the permanent employment scheme will continue to operate successfully. I do not think that employers of waterside labour should be allowed to reduce employee quotas to the level whereby ships are tied up in ports. Whilst the present system of permanent employment on the waterfront is a great incentive to the men I think that one of the reasons why port employee quotas have been reduced is because the waterside workers now have a greater incentive to get in and do the job. 
Under the old casual labour system the employees went on a job and they made it last as long as they could. I do not think that anyone can blame them when you realise that as soon as a job was finished those employees might have been out of work for a week or  lo  days, receiving only attendance money. Now that there is permanency there is an incentive for the men to get in and do the job. I have been assured by responsible officials amongst waterside workers that there has been an increase in throughput of at least 15 per cent as result of the introduction of permanency on the waterfront. What is happening now b that the men go on to do the job and - to use the phrase of the men on the job - they get stuck into it and clean it up as quickly as they can in the knowledge that when the job is' finished their shift is over. This has meant that there have been quite considerable savings in costs due to the quick turn around of ships in ports after they have been loaded with cargo or have discharged their cargo. The cost involved in keeping a ship in harbour is about $2,000 to $4,000 a day. The costs include labour fees, victualling costs, salaries for the crew members, power costs and everything else connected with overheads. These costs, as I said, have been reduced ia many cases but I issue the warning that employee quotas should be closely examined to ensure that ships are not allowed to lie idle in port for too long now that there is a greater throughput by the men on the job. 
The Opposition supports this legislation because it believes that the increased charges, which we know will be passed on in other ways, will ensure the payment of long service leave, sick leave and annual leave entitlements. It is agreed by the employers of waterfront labour and by the Waterside Workers' Federation that this will at least give some chance to stabilise employment in this industry and to iron out many of the differences which have occurred in past years between waterfront labour and employers. The Minister in his second reading speech made some reference to the number of disputes which have taken place on the waterfront in the last 12 months. Let us face the facts of life. One dispute was over the refusal of the employers of waterfront labour to confer on the question of a new award. Most of the things which had been put forward on behalf of the waterside workers were agreed to by the employers. 
The honourable member speaks with some experience. What the Waterside Workers' Federation put forward was later justified in confer ences. Is it any wonder that workers have to take the extreme action of calling a stoppage when employers and the Government are not prepared to confer on these things? I will agree that some stoppages have to an extent been political but I do not know how we can eliminate strikes of that type of short duration on political issues. All unions at some time indulge in them because they feel that they are justified in doing so. Recently there were disputes on the question of redundancy. I took part in a stop-work meeting concerning the disputes. I attended a meeting and listened to the propositions put forward by the responsible union against the shipowners' intention to make redundant some 100 men. Finally after negotiations had taken place the number was reduced to 50 men. Then the union had to take action to preserve the employment of 50 of its members. It should not have to do this. When the Minister condemns and criticises a union for going on strike, he should be clear about the reasons why it went on strike. In many of the cases 1 supported the action which was taken. 
On the question of redundancy, I think it is absolutely stupid and ridiculous to lay off 100 men and expect the other members of that branch of the union to go on working overtime. That is not the way the workers look at these questions. The fellows who are left on the job will not work overtime so that the employers can lay off their workmates in that industry. The way they look at it is that they are fighting for their mates today and their mates will be fighting for them the next day. These are some of the reasons why some of the stoppages took place. The shipowners and the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority have been stupid in their approach of endeavouring to reduce the quotas, particularly at Port Kembla and Newcastle, beyond a fair and reasonable level. The union knows what is a fair and reasonable level and it was not prepared to accept the number of redundancies that the employers were putting forward. The Opposition supports the 2 Bills because it believes, as I said earlier, that they will result in some degree of permanency and stability in the industry. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all die country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: In 1970 was the question of Commonwealth assistance for the construction of new docks referred to a special Cabinet subcommittee? Has the Newcastle State Dockyard submitted a plan for the construction of a new graving dock capable of docking and repairing large bulk carriers and tankers operating on the coast? Is he aware that this essential programme cannot commence until the Cabinet sub-committee has made a decision? Has he any information as to what progress has been made with these inquiries and when a decision can be expected? 

 - Mr Speaker, I- 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question  be  now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 3.44 a.m. (Friday) to a date and hour to be fixed by  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor announce on 13th August 1970 the formation of a new Commonwealth Expert Road Safety Group. 
If so, when and where has this Committee met. 
What specific projects have been commenced. 
What staff (a) has been appointed and (b) is planned. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
On what date and by what amounts were shipping freights increased by each shipping conference in respect of (a) conventional, (b) cellular container and (c) roll-on, roll-off ships over the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many occupants of motor vehicles were killed and how many of those killed' were wearing seat belts in each State in each of the years 1968, 1969 and 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many (a) charter and (b) scheduled flights were flown during 1970 by Qantas Airways Limited between Sydney and (i) London, (ii) Athens and (iii) Rome. 
How many passengers were carried in each flight. 
What was the (a) average percentage loading and (b) profit per flight. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants were brought to Australia by (a) sea and (b) air in each of the years 1968, 1969 and 19707 
Which airlines carried the migrants and at what cost? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many licensed commuter aircraft are operating in Australia and the Territory of Papua and New Guinea which are licensed to carry (a) 1 to 5, (b) 5 to 10, and (c) 10 to 20 passengers? 
From which country were these aircraft imported? 
What was the cost of each aircraft? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the (A) cost per passenger and (B) cost of freight per lb on (i) Boeing 727 aircraft, (ii) DC9 aircraft and (iii) Electra aircraft when operating between (A) Sydney and Perth (B) Sydney and Melbourne and (C) Sydney and Adelaide? 
What will be the relative costs for the wide-bellied jets at present under consideration by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries? 
by leave - The Opposition welcomes the decision made by the Government to dispense with this legislation involving the construction of the Grafton to South Brisbane railway. There are a few points in the statement of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to which attention should be drawn. He stated: 
There has been no surplus since 1952-33 and it appears highly improbable that there will be a surplus in the foreseeable future. 
The Minister also said that:  . . the Commonwealth Government has agreed to waive its rights to share in the distribution of any surplus revenue or profit from the operation of the railway, and thus has enabled the agreement to be wholly discharged. 
I ask this: What profits and what surpluses have been built up in this section of the New South Wales railways? Further, and probably most important of all, with regard to railways in particular and to public transport in general, what role does the Federal Government propose to adopt with respect to the Australian transport system as a whole? 
If ever a need existed for some Commonwealth assistance and some very positive Commonwealth programme and policy on this matter, the time is ripe now for a declaration and an announcement of policy by the Government. For example, when one examines the finances of the New South Wales Department of Railways, one finds that over the past 20 years the debt incurred by the New South Wales railway system has increased by 8202.7m. I will give some factual figures to the House on this subject. At 30th June 1950 the outstanding debt of the New South Wales Railways was $359,056,000 and at 30th June 1970 the capital debt had increased to $561,823,000 which is an increase of 8202,767,000. In that same period it is unfortunate that the New South Wales Railways have been able to repay only $54. 8m of its outstanding debt. lt is important to bear these figures in mind and to take them into consideration when we deal with agreements such as the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway Agreement. In the same period, the interest repayments by the New South Wales Railways increased from $14,624,000 in the 1949-50 financial year to $35,637,000 in the financial year 1969-70. It must be obvious to honourable members that a need exists for the Federal Government to bring down some positive policy designed to assist the public transport system not only of New South Wales but also of all States. A position similar to that in New South Wales prevails in the railway system in each State of Australia. The Australian Labor Party believes that it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to do something about this situation. We on this side of the House are confident that in 12 months time, when we are the Government, we will be doing something to assist State railways to overcome their financial problems. It must be obvious that no railway system - in fact, no form of public transport - can continue to pay the exorbitant interest charges that railway systems today are required to pay. In 1969-70, the New South Wales Railways were required to pay from revenue $35m in interest alone. Surely, this is not good enough. No Minister and no government should tolerate this state of affairs. As 1 have said, the Opposition is clear on what its policy towards this matter will be when it forms the Government. The Opposition believes that the Federal Government should be giving financial assistance to the States not only to dispense and to liquidate some of their existing loans on non-productive work but also to provide funds for improving the public transport system. Transport represents roughly 25 per cent of the cost structure of this nation. It is our responsibility. I look forward to the day when the Commonwealth Government will be doing something positive to help the railways to reduce their burden of debt and their commitments in respect of interest repayments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has there been any increase in passenger flight traffic between Australia and the United States of America since American Airlines were licensed to operate on this route; if so, what is the increase. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the cost of providing police pro- tection during the South African Rugby Union team's stay in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What was the cost of the barbed wire fence and other precautionary measures at Manuka Oval. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the fare per passenger seat mile on each scheduled route flown by Qantas Airways Limited. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Do Excise regulations prohibit the brewing of commercial strength beer for home consumption without the payment of a substantial annual fee and security. 
What is the minimum fee and security levied. 
What is the maximum quantity of commercial strength beer which can be home brewed for personal consumption without the payment of excise and security. 
Is he able to say whether the home brewing of beer in any strength for private consumption in Britain is permitted without the payment of excise or any other fee; if so, why is excise levied in Australia. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which airlines are operating Boeing 747 aircraft and on what routes do they fly. 
Is he able to say what are the reported financial results of these aircraft on each of these routes. 
asked  the  Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Sea-Carriage of Goods Act 1924 outdated by a new agreement signed at Brussels in 1968? 
Is he able to say whether the United Kingdom Government has ratified this new agreement? 
Has the Australian Government made a decision to ratify the Brussels agreement; if so, when will the necessary legislation be introduced? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many children were born in each of the past 5 years with (a) physical and (b) mental disability. 
The Opposition welcomes the statement which has just been made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  This statement is another example of the procrastination and delay by and indecision of the Government on a most important subject. The first thing to which I wish 'to draw attention is the fact that it would appear that there has been another Cabinet leak. I am wondering whether it was made by 'Billy the Leak' to his mate  Sir Frank  err who in the Cabinet is really leaking out this information. Although this confidential report, which has been in the hands of the Minister for Civil Aviation since September 1970 and has been a pretty closely guarded secret up to date, the Sunday Telegraph' of last week gave an almost verbatim list of the 16 sites investigated by the Department of Civil Aviation. I wonder whether it was 'Billy the Leak' who let out this information? 
 I wish to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he spoke in reply to the Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  So that we shall be clear about what is contained in the amendment, I shall read it to the House. The amendment states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House condemns the Budget because (a) its breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security.' 
I join with the Leader of the Opposition in urging the House to support that amendment. Before going on with what I want to say, I would like to sympathise with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who did his best to present some sort of a case in support of a political Budget - a Budget which has been rejected already by the people of this country. The honourable member said that the Budget has been well received by everyone. All I can say to the honourable gentleman is that there is none so blind as those who will not see. I know that it is an old saying but we can extend it a little. Not only has opposition to the present Treasurer's Budget been pointed out on television, as we all know, but the radio Press and everyone in the community unanimously rejects it. I refer to the Treasurer as the 'present Treasurer' because we never know in this Parliament just when a Minister or, for that matter, a Prime Minister will be replaced. Already we have known organisations such as the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, the Bank of New South Wales and the Australian Council of Trade Unions - any responsible organisation at all in the community today - condemn the Budget. 
When the Leader of the Opposition spoke on the Budget on 24th August and forecast an unemployed work force of some 100,000 men and women early in the new year, the Prime Minister, speaking 14 days later, pooh poohed this forecast and said that it was just another one of the flights of imagination of the Leader of the Opposition. But what is the position today? The Prime Minister has already accepted the fact that 100,000 people will be unemployed in this country before very long. He has already stated that the Government will watch the position but that it will not do anything about it at this time. This is typical of the attitude that was adopted by  Sir Robert  Menzies, and by the present Prime Minister when he was a Minister in the Menzies Government of 1961-62-63, when a Budget similar to this one was brought down in order to create unemployment as part of a policy of alleged devaluation. At that time we saw one of the worst examples of unemployment in this country since the hungry thirties. This is what we have to guard against now. 
I hope that the Government will have enough sense to do something about this position. I hope that it will take remedial steps immediately, even though the Budget has not yet been adopted, but it will be within the next hour. I hope that some Government supporters will be prepared to cross the floor of the House to defeat the Government and also this Budget and in that way give a responsible Party the opportunity to bring in a Budget which will ensure that there will not be a force of 100,000 unemployed people in this com munity within the next 3 months. No-one likes to see unemployment and no-one should tolerate or permit it. 
Much has been said in this debate, and also in recent months, about the number of strikes that have been held. As a member of a trade union and as an active member of a trade union before I came to this place, all I can say to honourable members is this: From my experience of trade unionism the trade unionist was able to get increased wages and better conditions only if he was prepared to take action and to struggle for them. He could not get them in any other way, and this is the position that exists today. 
Much has been said about men who work in government instrumentalities such as railways, bus services and sewerage services who have taken strike action in recent months. Could it not be that because of the attitude of governments throughout Australia today those men have lost patience with the arbitration system and have had to take this type of action in order to get wage justice? I suggest that this is the real reason why men have taken strike action. It is because they could not get justice in the place in which they were supposed to get it. It is for this reason, and this reason alone, that strike action has been taken. In any case, if one sets the amount of time lost as a result of strikes against the loss of production represented by the 75,000 unemployed today, there is no comparison between the two. 
What I am concerned about is the failure of this Government to do something positive about housing, health and social services. We see the de-Gortonisation of our social services system. Under the former Prime Minister, a tapered means test was introduced. The first thing that the present Prime Minister did when he came to office was to grant a 50c increase in pensions to commemorate his elevation to his new office. That was the first step taken in the destruction of the tapered means test. The recent increase of $1.25 a week given to single pensioners and $1 a week given to a married pensioner is a further step in the de-Gortonisation of social services. At least that man tried to do something to reduce the effects of the means test. Unfortunately the niggardly 
Prime Minister that we now have, better known as 'Billy the leak' is carrying out a policy of de-Gortonisation. 
I do not want to speak at greater length on this subject because I wish to deal with some other matters, including the transport system of this country. Firstly I wish to speak about the railway system. This Government is not prepared to assist the State governments which, because of the financial policies of this Government, are not able to meet the increasing debt charges with which their railways are burdened. This has resulted in savage increases in fares. We recently saw in all States savage increases in rail, bus and tram fares. For example, in New South Wales the increase in bus fares was more than 200 per cent. In the same period train fares increased by over 100 per cent. The Governments of the States are not in a position to do anything about the fare increases. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table showing outstanding railway debts. 

<graphic href="073131197109165_80_3.jpg"></graphic>

This table shows that there have been substantial increases in the debts of the railway systems of each of the States. Also, the table shows that the States are not in a position even to keep pace with what they are borrowing; they are not in a position even to pay off their outstanding debts with the amount of money they are borrowing. I do not have time to go into the position of each State. However, to illustrate this matter I would like to refer to the reply which I received on 30th October 1970 to a question on notice. I do not intend to incorporate this material in Hansard, but this information contains a substantial table which shows that in the 1960s the railways, and in particular the New South Wales Railways, were borrowing at the rate of $16m to $20m a year. In the same period the amount they were repaying was varying between $4m and $5m a year. So what can be said is that each year they were going further into the red to the tune of between $10m and SI 5m. Honourable members know what will happen to them; finally they will go out backwards. 
In New South Wales - and I am using New South Wales purely and simply because it is the largest State railway system in Australia - the outstanding debt in 1950 was S3 59m and in 1970 it had climbed to $56 lm. That is an increase of approximately $202m. In the some period New South Wales was able to repay only a matter of $54.8m. It went further into the red to the tune of $202m. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table showing railway interest and other charges. 

<graphic href="073131197109165_80_4.jpg"></graphic>

The table discloses that interest charges for the whole railway system of Australia, that is, those of the 6 States - I am not dealing with the Commonwealth at this point because it operates under a completely different position from the State railways - for the period 1950 to 1970 grew from $26.4m in 1950 to $51. 6m in 1960 and to $73. 125m in 1970. In the same period the New South Wales Railways interest commitment had climbed from $14.26m to $35.6m. I ask honourable members: How long can any railway system continue to carry this burden of $35m at year? In all probability in the next financial year it will climb to about $40m and keep on increasing at such a rate until we get to the stage where every time we buy a ticket or put a ton of freight on the State railways, most of the charge will be eaten out in interest payments. Of the total revenue of the New South Wales Railways roughly 14 per cent goes in interest and loan repayments. As I said earlier and will keep on repeating, there can be only one result from this. 
I and the Party I represent believe that this Government should be using public transport to encourage people to desist from their present policy of using the public highways to travel to and from their places of employment. At the present time under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the Commonwealth will make available to the State governments $ 1,252m for road construction. This will represent approximately one-third of the total cost of road construction in Australia today and all it is doing is encouraging the States to create concrete jungles like those we know of in other cities in other countries. I believe from the figures I have taken out that during the period of the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the Commonwealth Treasury will finish with a surplus of about $800m in excess of the amount it will collect from fuel tax. What we should be doing is using this surplus money or, for that matter, general revenue to assist the States to overcome their financial problems. From the figures I have quoted it is quite obvious that there is a need to do something about this. 
The railways are trying to tackle the problem of transport. For example, in Australia today - just to mention some of the major rail projects - there is the eastern suburbs railway in Sydney which started with an estimated cost of $80m; this has now climbed to $120m. There is the Melbourne underground railway which was originally costed at about $80m; it will probably cost $150m by the time it is completed. There are railway projects in northern and central Queensland which will cost $112m. There is the Melbourne rar! yard which has just been completed - an excellent piece of engineering - at a cost of $14.5m. Private railways are being built in Western Australia for the carriage of ore. So there is any amount of work being carried out on railways. 
However, I am really concerned about suburban services. We should be using the railway systems and public transport to do something about getting people off the roads. The Sydney eastern suburbs railway will carry about 30,000 people an hour while other rail systems will carry an even higher number, about 40,000. However, a road or an expressway will take only 2,500 people an hour on each lane. So that if there is a 6-lane highway, 3 lanes each way, all we can expect it to carry is 7,500 people an hour as against the 30,000 people an hour carried by a railway. In the long run it will cost less to build and operate a railway system. In major cities, such as New York, only 23 per cent of the 4 million commuters each day to Manhattan Island travel by car, the remaining 77 per cent using public transport. In London only 10 per cent of people who travel into the inner city use their private cars. This is the example at which we should be looking rather than the set-up in Los Angeles where 85 per cent of the people travel to work in their own vehicles. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to go there have seen the concrete jungles that have had to be built because there is not a suitable public transport system. In the last 20 years the number of other cities which have underground or rapid transport systems either operating or in the course of construction has grown from 16 to 60. 
As far as our interstate and intrastate transport is concerned I, just like honourable members of the Australian Country Party, am concerned with the cost of transporting rural production from the farms to the cities or to points of export and the back loading of goods required on the farms. We know that rural freights have been increased and we know that there are major problems with wool where rail co-ordination taxes are imposed, causing increased transport costs right throughout the State. I 'believe the rail co-ordination taxes should be either abolished completely or the revenue received from them used to construct roads instead of as a means of offsetting rail losses in those areas. 
The Opposition believes first and moremost that the rail system in Australia should be under one control instead of having the parochial systems which have been created. In New South Wales all the rail systems feed into Sydney. The same can be said of Victoria where all the rail systems feed into Melbourne. The same thing applies in the other States though not as badly. The Opposition believes that the Commonwealth should be charged with the responsibility of running the railways. A Labor Government would 'be prepared to -take them over and to make money available to the States to overcome their shocking debt position. Until interest payments are reduced nothing can be done about 'their debt position. Taking into account the $59m which last year the Commonwealth paid in subsidies relating to air travel, the $2m in subsidies for unprofitable air routes and the $19m paid last year in ship building subsidies, a total amount of $27 lm has been given in subsidies by the Commonwealth to various forms of industry, whether rural or secondary, throughout Australia in the last 12 months. This is where the money can come from to assist the railways throughout Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships have been built in Australia during the last 20 years from 100 to 1,000 tons dead-weight. 
Can he state in respect of each ship: 
The name of the owners; 
The shipyard in which it was built; 
The tons dead-weight; 
The cost; 
The date of the application by the owner to the Shipbuilding Board; 
The date on which the order was placed with a shipyard; and 
The date of completion. 
On which ships was a subsidy paid. 
Were these ships built for the Australian coastal trade or the overseas trade, and are they still in the trade for which they were built 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships have been built in Australia during the last 20 years over 1,000 tons deadweight. 
Can he state in respect of each ship: 
The name of the owners; 
The shipyard in which it was built; 
The tons dead-weight; 
The cost; 
The date of the application by the owner to the Shipbuilding Board 
The date on which the order was placed with a shipyard and 
The date of completion. 
On which ships was a subsidy paid. 
Were these ships built for the Australian coastal trade, and are they still in this trade. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Has agreement been reached between the Department of Civil Aviation and the American Civil Aeronautics Board which gives Qantas Airways Ltd the right to land Boeing  747  jets in the United States of America and additional weekly flights for the United States airlines? Why did the Minister for Civil Aviation treat the Parliament with contempt by delaying his announcement of this important and contentious agreement until immediately after the Parliament had adjourned for the normal week's recess, even though the report had been in his possession for nearly 3 weeks? Can the Minister say what concessions were obtained by Qantas and what the American airline operators received? Can it truthfully be claimed that Qantas was completely and totally sold out by this Government? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has a research team headed by  Dr E.  K. Bigg of the Radiophysics Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation been carrying out research into the possible effects of supersonic aircraft flying at heights of up to 130,000 feet. 
If so, what has this research disclosed. 
Does the SST Concorde cruise at between 50,000 and 60,000 feet and is this cruising height in the critical zone which has been researched. 
Has Qantas an option to purchase Concordes; if so has the CSIRO advised them of possible environmental pollution from these high flying aircraft. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Bill before the House provides for a small amendment to the Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Act. The Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Bill was introduced into this House in October 1961 by the Right Honourable Robert Gordon Menzies. It was designed to ratify an agreement between the Commonwealth and Western Australia for the completion of what now can truthfully be described as the Transcontinental Railway, connecting Sydney on the east coast with Perth on the west coast and continuing down to Kwinana. At that time the then Prime Minister outlined to the House the terms and conditions of the agreement. The Bill set a time limit and, by rights, the agreement should have been terminated by 30th June this year. However, because of complications in Western Australia the work was not completed by that date. As a result the Government, I think sensibly, has extended the time for completion of the work and has placed a limit on the amount of money which can be spent on the work. I hope that at some stage - probably when he replies - the Minister for Snipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  can indicate what will happen if for some unforeseen reason the amount of $125m, which he has stated has been set aside for the work, is exceeded. I have been assured that the amount will not be exceeded, but if it should be I hope that the Government will be sympathetic and show a reasonable degree of understanding to ensure that sufficient money is made available to complete the work. 
There are several other matters concerning this agreement to which I will refer. This railway is another milestone in the development of rail standardisation which has been talked about in Australia for more years than most of us have been on this planet. I believe that in .the original agreement the then Prime Minister adopted a very niggardly attitude towards the Western Australian Government in regard to the terms of the agreement, and unfortunately this Government has not seen fit to give any relief to the Western Australian Government or to the Western Australian railways. The figures which were tabled in  1961 by  the then Prime Minister indicated that the estimated cost of the railway was $82,400,000. I will use that figure rather than the figure of 41,200,000, which was used at that time. The Western Australian Government had to provide $12,400,000 out of its own Consolidated Revenue. This meant that the Commonwealth had to provide funds to the extent of only $70m. 
The unfortunate thing about this matter is the formula which the then Prime Minister adopted. Basically this is a rail standardisation project. It provides for the conversion of the railway from a 3 feet 6 inches gauge to the standard gauge of 4 feet  8i  inches. Yet the Government at that time - and this Government is continuing the anomaly - decided that one-half of the cost of this railway should be credited to a development project. This meant that the Western Australian Government had to pay the whole of the cost of that development, and that the standardisation formula would be applied to the remainder of the project. The Western Australian Government has to meet 100 per cent of one-half of the cost and the Commonwealth had to meet 70 per cent of one-half of the cost. In plain terms it meant that the Western Australian Government had to provide $12.4m out of its own Consolidated Revenue, and that under the formula which was adopted, out of Commonwealth funds the Western Australian railways had to provide ten-seventeenths of $70m, or $4 1.2m, making a total of $53. 6m, and the Commonwealth had to provide only $28.8m. 
We must bear in mind the fact that the original agreement between the Commonwealth and' Western Australia was entered into in 1961. Only 3 years earlier - almost to the day, but at least to the month because it happened in October 1958 - a similar rail standardisation agreement was entered into between the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales and Victoria. That agreement provided that the Commonwealth would make available 100 per cent of the funds for the conversion of the Victorian railway to the standard gauge of 4 feet 8i inches. The Commonwealth made available the whole of the funds and New South Wales and Victoria had to provide only 15 per cent each of the total funds, by way of repayments to the Commonwealth, making a total of 30 per cent of the total funds. The standardisation formula which was applied in that instance provided that the Commonwealth would contribute 70 per cent of the funds and that the 2 States would each contribute 15 per cent of the funds, making a total of 30 per cent. The richest States in the Commonwealth received treatment which was most favourable compared with the treatment meted out to Western Australia, although Western Australia has the largest area of all the States. It is one of the smaller States in terms of population and it has considerable problems associated with distance. 
One of the first major developmental projects in Western Australia was the decision of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to build at Kwinana an integrated steelworks - provided rail standardisation was provided - which would process some 2 million tons of ore mined at Koolyanobbing. That works was expected to produce from 2 million tons of ore some 450,000 tons of pig iron or 330,000 tons of finished steel products. However, immediately this project was announced the Menzies Government was not prepared to deal sympathetically with it and provide all the funds required. That Government would not apply the same formula to Western Australia as was applied to New South Wales and Victoria. I think this is a serious anomaly and I hope that this Government or some other government in the years to come will give sympathetic consideration towards assisting the Western Australian Government with its railways system. 
There is a serious anomaly when one considers the treatment that was meted out to the Western Australian Government and particularly when one updates the figures. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport in his second reading speech said that the current estimate of the cost to complete the project is $125m and of that amount the States will have to provide from general revenue funds $18,750,000 and the remaining $106,250,000 is to be provided by the Commonwealth. The catch is still there. The Western Australian Government will still have to repay $62.5m of that amount of $106,250,000. This is based on the Menzies formula of ten-seventeenths of the funds provided by the Commonwealth. The State will also have to meet the interest payments on that $62.5m. 
The failure of the Government in not applying to Western Australia the formula which was applied to New South Wales and Victoria is not the only anomaly. When money was provided in 1961 most of the Commonwealth funds made available to the States was money which the Commonwealth raised by means of income tax, company tax, sales tax and other forms of taxation available to it. In effect the Government became the money lender. The Government provided the money for rail projects and the States have had to pay from 6 per cent to 7 per cent interest on the money loaned to them. The amount of interest varies because the money made available is by way of annual grants and in recent years we have seen the long term bond rate climb from 6 per cent to the present rale of about 7 per cent. As far as the Commonwealth is concerned it may well be that by the time one portion of the loan, which is over a period of 20 years with the remainder over a period of 50 years, is paid and the interest is also paid the Commonwealth will have made a profit on the rail standardisation project from Kalgoorlie to Kwinana. Even though this line goes to Koolyanobbing it will in reality be between Kalgoorlie and Kwinana. 
It is important to bear in mind the repayment figure of $62. 5m plus the interest rate of 6 per cent to 7 per cent on the money made available to the Western Australian Government. That Government will be committed to a total cost of $81,250,000. Once again we should compare this amount with what would have been the case under the rail standardisation agreement between the Commonwealth and the State governments of New South Wales and Victoria. If the formula had been applied to the Western Australian Government that State would have had to pay only $37.5m, a saving of about $43 .75m. The Western Australian Government has received no favourable treatment whatsoever from this Government whereas the 2 wealthiest States of the Commonwealth - New South Wales and Victoria - have received quite substantial and favourable treatment. The formula applied to New South Wales and Victoria should likewise be applied to this project. No-one can deny that this project is part of rail standardisation connecting the capita! cities of this country. In the last 20 years the outstanding debt of the Western Australian State Railways has increased from S59m in 1950 to $161.7 in 1970. In that same period the amount of interest has increased from 2. 186m in 1950 to $6.574m in 1970. 
It is because of the substantial increase in interest rates that the State railway systems are today moving for substantial increases in freight rates and in passenger fares. New South Wales and Victoria have both substantially increased these rates at about an average of 50 per cent and some went as high as 70 per cent and 80 per cent. I believe there has been a similar increase in Western Australia. The Minister for Shipping and Transport also recently announced increased passenger fares of about 20 per cent on the Commonwealth Railways, which uses the Australian railways system. There have been substantial increases in freight charges. All these increases have an important bearing on the cost structure of this country. I would hope to see this Government or a future Commonwealth government make a serious review of the whole question of rail freights, rail passenger fares and the capital debt of our State railway systems with a view to giving financial assistance to them. The Commonwealth provides subsidies for civil airlines. Last year airlines in Australia were subsidised by the Commonwealth to the tune of $50m or $60m. This figure is difficult to work out exactly. The Commonwealth provided the money for the construction of airports and associated charges in the airline industry. We have had subsidies paid in respect of various developmental air routes. I believe that the amount paid last year was $2m. But this amount of money is not made available to State governments for their railway systems. In the Estimates for this year an amount of Si 8m has been made available for the shipbuilding industry. I do not disagree that these subsidies should be paid - and this particularly applies to the shipbuilding industry - but I am just drawing attention to the favourable treatment this Government gives to one industry and not to another. The Minister can smile. I have in my electorate a shipyard and I agree that a subsidy should be available for this industry. I think the Government should be looking at ways and means of assisting the Australian railways industry by subsidising the construction of rolling stock the price of which in many cases does not compare with the price for which it can be purchased overseas. 
I want to refer to the finance made available by the Commonwealth by way of a subsidy for the construction of roads. The Government will make a considerable profit this year from the additional duty imposed on fuel. I believe that during the term of the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the Commonwealth will pay to the States $ 1,252m. I estimate that the Commonwealth Treasury will finish up with a surplus of $750m from the additional revenue received from the fuel tax. Some of this money should be used to assist the States to make their railway systems more attractive, particularly the suburban transport systems so that people will prefer to use this form of transport instead of driving their cars into the city. The suburban rail transport systems in Sydney and Melbourne in particular can carry about 30,000 to 40,000 people per hour, compared with the highways, expressways and freeways which are being built into the capital cities which carry about 2,500 people per lane. A 6-lane highway, with 3 lanes each way, will carry about 7,500 people compared with the figure of between 30,000 and 40,000 people that can be carried by rail, depending on the type of train being used. 
This is where money should be expended. When I make a plea on behalf of rail transport I can quote any number of cases. I have quoted the figures for other types of competitive transport such as road, air and sea transport. I believe that about $28 lm is paid as a subsidy to primary industry and secondary industry to which I have made reference already. There are any number of grounds why the Government should have looked more favourably on the Western Australian Government and given it a better arrangement in relation to the repayment of the money lent to standardise the railway from Koolyanobbing down to Kwinana. 
I was a little disappointed with the Indian-Pacific Express. One would have to go a long way to better the comfort on that train, and I have no unfavourable comments to make about that. We have a new train, a new line and Commonwealth money was provided to upgrade various sections of the New South Wales line between Parkes and Broken Hill. I think that about $10m was made available. Money has been provided to complete the Broken Hill to Port Pirie section. I think that everyone expected a train which would be comparable, in relation to time - it is comparable in relation to comfort - with other trains throughout the world. Having in mind the long stretches between stopping points, I had hoped that the journey from Sydney to Perth would have been much faster. The train leaves Sydney at 3.15 p.m. on a Monday and a Thursday, and does not arrive in Perth until 7 a.m. on the Thursday and the Sunday. That is a total actual travelling time of 65 hours 45 minutes. This represents an average speed of a little over 38 miles per hour and an actual travelling speed of 45 miles per hour.. 
I will not for one second try to compare it with the new Tokkaido Express between Tokyo and Osaka, but there are many trains throughout the world with which the Indian-Pacific Express could be compared. I would like some indication from the Minister as to what the position is. Have the Commonwealth, New South Wales, South Australian and Western Australian railways any plans for speeding up the journey so as to reduce as far as possible the travelling time between our east and west coasts? I think that there is a need for it. I would like some information from the Minister as to why the average speed is only a little over 38 miles per hour. I believe that it is about 38.5 miles per hour and the actual travelling speed is about 45 miles per hour. Having in mind the long distances between stopping places, it would be quite easy to&gt; obtain; a decent speed for the whole of the journey. The Opposition supports the proposal because it is a reasonable approach to a situation which has developed and for which no-one is to blame. Unfortunately, as I have said many times in my speech this afternoon, it perpetuates an unfair and unreasonable financial arrangement between the Commonwealth and the State. 
The purpose of the Bill before the House is to amend the Air Navigation Act to ratify an agreement with the International Civil Aviation Organisation whereby the council of that body is to be increased from 27 to 30 members. Also, the Bill contains a minor amendment, namely, the deletion of section 6 of the Air Navigation Act which deals with international organisations' privileges and immunities - a matter which has already been covered in other legislation which passed through this Parliament earlier this year. 
The Opposition has no objection to the amendment in regard to ICAO representation. I cannot see any great difference whether the council has 27 or 30 members. If that body feels that increased membership will be an improvement I do not object to such a change. But what does concern members of the Opposition is the way in which the articles of ICAO are being carried out. We object to the way in which this Government and the Department of Civil Aviation are conducting inquiries into air accidents involving international aircraft. We also object to the tragic, even disastrous, agreement that was entered into or accepted by the Depart ment of Civil Aviation, and in particular by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  with the Americans. This agreement was announced by the Minister last Sunday night. For this reason and so that we may debate these issues and test the feeling of the House I move as an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
That all words after "That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of opinion that a joint select committee should be established to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route.' 
In support of my amendment I wish to refer to what were in my opinion 3 very serious accidents which have occurred at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport since December 1969. The first accident involved a Pan American Airlines 707 jet the pilot of which, on 1st September 1969, had to abort its takeoff. It took the Department of Civil Aviation  9i  months to conclude its inquiries and to bring down a report on this accident. Fortunately noone was seriously injured and irreparable damage was not done to the aircraft. The points that were brought out by the inquiry were centred on one matter, namely, a defective hydrometer. Because of a fault in the hydrometer the aircraft was overloaded to the extent of 6,800 lb of fuel. This was the principal point that was grasped by the inquiry to justify the fact that the pilot had to abort takeoff. It had been alleged that seagulls were sucked into the intakes - of two of the motors and the aircraft lost power at a critical point. The pilot then had to abort takeoff and as a result the aircraft travelled 200 feet beyond the end of the runway. The aircraft was fortunate enough to move into some very soft soil in which it came to a halt. As I said earlier no-one suffered serious injury. 
The point I want to bring out is that there was a lot of verbiage and technical jargon in the report on this accident but there was no mention of one very important point - that the insufficient length of runway had been referred to by this Parliament's Public Works Committee. The Committee has drawn attention a number of times to the fact that the runways should be extended to overcome a problem such as the one which developed on this occasion. The Australian Federation of Air Pilots has submitted evidence on a number of occasions to Public Works Committees drawing attention to the fact that, provided everything went well, there would not be aborted takeoffs such as this one, and the runways were quite long enough. However, the Federation pointed out that in the event of any problem developing, such as the pilot overshooting the threshhold on touchdown or a belated or aborted takeoff the runways were not long enough. All those facts were overlooked by the inquiry. 
I am wondering whether it was a policy of the Government deliberately to refrain from extending the runways because at that time Pan American Airways, which was the principal operator on the South Pacific run at that time, was flying long range Boeing 707 321B series jets whereas Qantas Airways Ltd was operating Boeing 707 138B series jets which had shorter range and carried a smaller load. If the runway was shorter, as was the case at that time, Pan American Airlines was unable to use its longer range aircraft to their maximum capacity. Pan American irlines aircraft were going out light loaded whereas Qantas aircraft were going out with full loads. I ask whether this was one of the points which was conveniently overlooked by the inquiry because its report made no reference whatever to the fact that if the runway had been only 200 feet longer an accident would not have occurred and the Pan American aircraft would not have been severely damaged. If the runway had been longer the cost of repairing the aircraft would have been avoided and the passengers would not have been brought so close to a serious accident. 
The second accident to which I wish to refer occurred at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on 29lh January this year when a Trans-Australia Airlines Boeing 727 aircraft collided with a Canadian Pacific Airlines Ltd DC8 aircraft which was crossing the runway on which the TAA 727 had been cleared for takeoff. The TAA pilot must have been horrified to see the Canadian Pacific aircraft in front of him as he was travelling down the north-south runway. We in this Parliament have had no report on the accident since it occurred 8 months and one week ago - actually 8 months ago last Friday night. The Minister for Civil Aviation has not made a report to the Parliament I believe that the inquiry into this accident has not yet concluded. 
I would like from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House, an explanation of some other incidents. I would like to know why the TAA voice recorder was confiscated by the Department of Civil Aviation officers without authority although there is an agreement that this tape cannot be removed unless someone is injured. 
All I ask for is an answer to that question and an answer to when this Parliament can expect a  report  on the results of the inquiry into the near tragic accident to which I have just referred. The accident involving the TAA and Canadian Pacific Airlines aircraft could have been one of the worst in the history of Australian aviation. The aircraft were pretty well loaded and carried more than 200 people. It was only by a miracle that the TAA pilot was able to lift off in time to avert a tragedy, although the aircraft sustained a considerable amount of damage. However, as far as aviation is concerned the aircraft were not nearly write-offs. 
The other accident to which 1 would like to refer involved a Pan American Airways Boeing 747 jet which overshot the east-west runway at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport on Sunday 18th July. Once again if the runway had been an extra 200 feet in length an accident would not have occurred. I again give the facts that I put forward in my first example. The Public Works Committee of this Parliament and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots have drawn attention time and time again to the short runways. They were all right if everything went well but this was another example of where everything did not go well. 
On Sunday 18th July the Pan American Boeing 747 overshot the Sydney east-west runway, admittedly after the pilot had touched down about 4,000 feet from the threshold. He was about 2,500 feet further up the track than he should have been. There is an argument as to whether he should have attempted to go around again. The facts are that he put down at that point and went on with it. It was only when it became obvious to him that there was insufficient runway that he was able to steer the aircraft into a controlled right hand slide off the end of the runway. If he had not been able to carry out this manoeuvre it is certain that the aircraft would have gone over the runway and crashed over the embankment into a huge cement pipe which we all know and have seen on many occasions. That was on the Sunday. 
On Monday 19th July Pan American Airways made a statement that the landing aids at Sydney airport were useless for jumbo jets. On Tuesday 20th June the Director-General of Civil Aviation,  Sir Donald  Anderson, blasted the pilot of the Pan American 747 and is alleged to have said that the pilot made a major error in judgment and that it was astounding that the error had gone uncorrected. He went on to say that before Pan American began operating Boeing 747 jets into Sydney last October, the Department of Civil Aviation had written to the airline on 17th September and explained the landing aids. Pan American Airways has since denied this. It is also alleged that after the accident the pilot stated that he did not use the system and had no instructions whatever which would allow or cause him to use it. 
The Director-General in his attack on Captain McDonald, captain of the Pan American 747, quoted as his authority Captain R. Gray, a Department of Civil Aviation heavy transport examiner who had undergone a conversion course for the Boeing 747 aircraft and is fully endorsed in respect of it. The Director-General quoted this man as his authority when saying that the runway at Kingsford-Smith airport is satisfactory and suitable for landing 747 jets. I say this without in any way trying to denigrate the ability and experience of Captain Gray as a pilot. I accept that the man is fully endorsed in relation to the 747 aircraft. What I would like to know from the Minister is whether he or the Director-General of Civil Aviation can explain where Captain Gray gained his experience in landing 747 aircraft on the T-VASI system which, I understand is installed only in Australia and New Zealand. I believe it is being installed in Nepal, Fiji and Manila but at this point of time and at the time of the accident it was installed only in Australia. The T-VAS] system is a new system introduced and perfected by the aviation industry here in Australia. I understand that Captain Gray is endorsed in relation to this aircraft but I would like to know when he learned to operate under the T-VASI system. Was it in the United States of America where there is no T-VASI system or was it in Australia where there is a T-VASI system but no 747s on which he could do his training? This is the important matter which the Minister should explain to the Parliament. Furthermore, if everyone in civil aviation in Australia is so well informed on the T-VASI system and its use by 747 pilots, can the Minister explain why the day after  Sir Donald's  attack on Captain McDonald an urgent and secret film session was held in the Qantas route qualification film theatre at Mascot at 2 p.m. so that the Department of Civil Aviation could give Qantas managerial and senior training pilots their first look at a film demonstrating the different methods of using the T-VASI approach slope guidance for 747 aircraft? Whilst Qantas has now accepted the T-VASI system it did not always accept it and I would like to quote an extract from the Qantas 'Flight Crew Instruction Manual' and the 'Flight Crew Training Manual' under the heading Visual Approach Slope Indicator'. It reads: 
Boeing studies of the final approach and landing geometry of the 747 indicate that existing VASI systems should not be used as landing aids. 
All VASI systems are visual projections of the approach path normally aligned to intersect the runway at a point 1000 to 1S00 feet beyond the threshold. When ILS is installed, VASI visually coincides with the ILS glide slope. 
Flying the VASI glide slope to touch down is the same as selecting a visual aim point on the runway adjacent to the VASI installation. The difference between the eye reference path and the gear path of the 747 results in a deceptively low approach with marginal or insufficient threshold height. Landing gear touch down may occur well short of the runway. Short of new installations, realignment of present VASI or new procedures developed for the use of T-VASI, the increased height of the eye reference point cannot be adequately compensated. Therefore, VASI should be disregarded as an aid to landing until new installations have been made or present installations or procedures modified, flight checked and approved by responsible agencies. 
That was the attitude of Qantas to the T-VASI system, the suitability of which 1 am not questioning. What I am saying is that at the time of the accident and when  Sir Donald  Anderson made his attack on the pilot the T-VASI system had not been fully explained or accepted by the various airlines that were operating into Sydney. The Pan American pilot involved in this incident stated that he had no instructions from Pan American Airways as to what he was to do. 
I am quoting from a journal and I hand it to you. What I am concerned about is that one is unable to gain some information on these matters. On 23rd July I asked a question of  Mr Doubleday,  Regional Director for New South Wales, who said that he could not answer it but that he would pass it on. Whilst I have not time to relate the whole of the question, I sought information in relation to the points I have made on this subject and as at this date I have not yet received a reply to my question. This gives honourable members an example of what happens so far as this Department is concerned over the supply of information. I do not know whether it is the Department or the Minister who is to blame. There should be a select committee set up to inquire into the investigation procedures for accidents involving foreign aircraft. Such accidents should be investigated by an impartial panel of experts appointed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation charged with the responsibility of revealing and not concealing, as can be the case when accidents are investigated by home town authorities. What I am afraid of is that, just as in the first incident to which I referred we had a home town authority appeal result, we might get the same in the next inquiry. The same might apply in other countries. What we want are total and impartial inquiries wherein the facts are brought out and wherein information is not concealed. I would like to see the members of this Parliament given the opportunity of examining these matters more fully than they are able to at present. 
The other matter to which I would like to refer in the limited time available to me now is the agreement that has been entered into by Australia and the United States of America relating to the increase in flight frequencies between Australia and the United States. It is obvious that Australia has really taken a bashing at the conference which took place and the only thing the Government could say came in a reply to a question which I asked the Minister for National Development on 28th September. He said - this is all that we got out of him, and when I say 'we' I mean Qantas, because it is Australia's airline: 
It was that in, future the control of arrangements regarding capacity on the Pacific route will be in the hands of the two governments, not in the hands of the airlines or the American Civil Aeronautics Board. 
What is the American Civil Aeronautics Board? It is, in effect, the American Government. Any decision made by that Board, such as the one which said that Qantas could not land Boeing 747s in America, has to be ratified first by the Administration. In actual fact, what the Minister told me on Tuesday of this week was a lot of bunkum because that arrangement already exists. When the Civil Aeronautics Board makes a decision, such as the one it made concerning the important question about Qantas 747s, it has to be ratified by the American Administration. So the position has always been that a decision by the Board has been a decision by the American Administration. The situation has always existed where this Government has been able to confer with the American Administration. What we want to do very quickly- 
The Minister will have an opportunity to make his speech shortly. He could have made * a statement on this question any day this week. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  sat on the report concerning additional flights across the Pacific for 3 weeks. He was afraid to bring it in. He waited until the Parliament had adjourned. Parliament adjourned on the Thursday night and on the Sunday the Minister for Civil Aviation released a statement to the Press. Why did he not have the courage to come into this Parliament and make the statement where it should have been made? And the Minister for National Development knows that the Minister for Civil Aviation sat on the report concerning the siting of Sydney's second airport for months and months - for 12 months all told. He sat on this report concerning additional flights across the Pacific for 3 weeks. He was finally forced into the position where he could not sit on it any longer; it got too hot for him. 
I am completely under control. I am just telling you where to get off. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Minister's Department receive an application from World Airways to fly 15 charter flights from the United States of America to Australia. 
If so, why did World Airways withdraw this application. 
What is Qantas doing to attract tourists from the United States on charter flights similar to those applied for by World Airways. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has BOAC, the British international flag carrier, set up a fully-owned charter subsidiary, British Overseas Air Charters Ltd (BOAC Ltd) to enter the charter market. 
If so, is this new company  a  member of IATA. 
If not, has this new non-IATA company been formed to compete with other non-IATA charter companies that operate throughout the world. 
Does Qantas plan to compete with nonIATA charter companies. 
Can  the  Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport say what was the destination of  the  ketch 'One and All' and  the  purpose of the voyage? What was the  condition  of the ketch prior to sailing and when  was  it last surveyed? Was it registered  and, if so,  under what classification  - pleasure  boat, fishing boat, trading vessel or what? Was the registration,  if any,  subject to any conditions?  What  was the cost of the search and will  the  owner be required to meet any of  this  cost  in  view of reports that he will  receive a  substantial amount from a newspaper for the exclusive right to publish his story and his experience of the foundering? Finally, in view of the many conflicting reports as to the seaworthiness of this ketch and the purpose of the voyage, will the Minister appoint a court of marine inquiry to inquire into the circumstances of the foundering of the ketch 'One and All' off Middleton Reef on 2nd October? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is there a seat pool Agreement between Qantas, B.O.A.C., Air India, Air New Zealand and Malaysia-Singapore Airways. 
Does this Agreement guarantee that if any of these airlines cease operations due to an industrial dispute, it shall, for the first 28 days of the shut-down, receive payment for normal scheduled seat capacity over the routes shared. 
I thank the House. The Opposition is concerned that reports of this nature are being tabled in the Parliament and no opportunity is being given to debate them. I welcome the statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that he is prepared at some time in the future to make a statement on the matter. I ask that that statement be tabled as early as is convenient so that honourable members, if they desire, can debate the relevant findings of the inquiry. Courts of marine inquiry have been set up to investigate tragedies such as the 'Noongah' and the 'Sedco Helen' but there has never been any opportunity for honourable members to discuss these questions. 1 hope that in the near future the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government will give serious consideration to making statements when reports of this nature are tabled so that honourable members can debate the merits of the reports. Too often the inquiries are held and then the reports are thrown into the archives and honourable members are not given the opportunity to debate them. 
I wish to raise a matter to which I referred at question time during this week, namely, the sinking of the ketch One and All'. Firstly I would like to draw the attention of the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Hunt)  to the fact that on 16th November 1970 I wrote to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about a problem that existed in the Sydney office of the Search and Rescue Section of the Department of Shipping and Transport. A dispute arose there between the Department and the surveyors as to the meaning of search and rescue operations. The surveyors will not take calls at their homes in respect of such operations. 
In the event of a vessel being reported missing, as was the case with the 'One and AH', the first call is taken in Newcastle by a departmental surveyor there. He has then to transfer it to the regional controller in Sydney who has then to make arrangements to get a man to the office in Sydney. From that point operations commence. Twelve months ago I complained about the lack of facilities that were provided. I am informed that these facilities have now been brought up to a reasonable standard, but the dispute that has been outstanding for over 12 months is still in existence and I hope that the Department will take immediate steps to bring this to a satisfactory conclusion. It is a serious matter and one which should not be allowed to drag on for 12 months. 
As I said earlier, I want to refer to the sinking of the ketch 'One and All'. What concerns me and what concerns experienced people in the marine industry is this: What was this ketch doing at Middleton Reef? What justification was there for it to be there?  Was the  vessel  registered? 
What was its condition? It is pretty obvious from replies which I received from the Acting Minister, and which the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also received from the Acting Minister, and from a reply to a question which was asked in the Queensland Parliament on Tuesday of this week that this ketch was not in a seaworthy condition. I do not have time to go through the whole of the question that was asked in Brisbane but the condition of the vessel is pretty obvious from statements that were made there by the Minister for Conservation when he said that in the surveyor's opinion the vessel had the following defects: 
Extensive rot in the framing of the  bull  which became exposed by the removal of some hull planking; 
Positive indication of decay in the hull planking; 
Iron work, including chain plates and their fastenings were in a badly corroded condition. (Chain plates anchor the rigging in position.) 
It was considered by the surveyor that the vessel had come to the end of its useful life. This is just some indication of the state of that ketch before it left Brisbane harbour. What concerns people is that vessels of this type are being allowed to operate on the coast where no-one seems to have any real control over them and it is time that they were brought under some form of control. To get back to the reasons why this ketch was at Middleton Reef, I understand now that navigational beams and lights have been erected on the wrecked British freighter there, the 'Runic'. The industry wants to know why and I think that only a full marine inquiry can disclose this. Are they seismic beacons that have been erected. These, I believe, are usually maintained by the Department of Shipping and Transport. Apparently the Department knows something about them but no-one in the industry really knows just what it is all about. There have been suggestions bandied around that the position of the 'Runic' would be an excellent place to exchange drugs. There are suggestions in the industry that it has been a phoney adventure and, all told, there is some explanation due to the public. 
From statements made in the Queensland Parliament it is pretty obvious that the ketch 'One and All' was indulging in trade. It allegedly left Brisbane harbour with 40 tons of cargo on board. Why? If it had cargo and if it was trading then it is required to be registered under the Navigation Act. If this is the case the owner is required to come up with some explanation as to why it did not have a certificate of registration to operate as a trading vessel under the Navigation Act. What is the position as far as the crew is concerned? It had a crew of 7 - 6 men and a young woman of 21 years of age or thereabouts. Only 2 of the crew were experienced, apparently one man who held a mate's certificate and another who had some years experience at sea as an able seaman. That is the sum total of the experience of the crew on board. This is not satisfactory. Some 3 years ago when debating an amendment to the Navigation Act I drew the attention of the Government to the exemption at that time of pleasure craft from its provisions. I expressed an opinion about them at that stage. At page 1751 of Hansard of 29th May 1968 I said: 
Exception (l.)(d) is concerned with "pleasure yachts not engaged in trade'. I refer the Minister in particular to the 'New Endeavour',, which operates off the Australian coastline. People are not paid to work on it; they pay the owners to work on this 200 ton gross sailing ship. People pay for the fun of working before the mast, but in shipping circles this vessel is not considered to be seaworthy. 
The 'One and AH' ais into the selfsame category. It is obvious that it was not seaworthy when it put to sea with 7 people on board. The Government will have to do something positive about tightening up the regulations covering ships of the type of the 'One and AH' and the 'New Endeavour' which operate around the coast of Australia. That brings me back to the question of the 'One and AH'. I think the maritime industry is entitled to an explanation on the points I have raised tonight. 
J hoped that the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport would have been in the chamber tonight. I gave him notice that I would speak on his subject. 1 hope that the Acting Minister will give the House some very positive information as to what has happened already in the preliminary discussions which I understand were held with the owner of the 'One and All" in Sydney this week. I think the Parliament is entitled to be told what has happened to date. I believe that there is already any amount of evidence to justify the holding of a full inquiry to determine, firstly, the condition of the ship before it left Brisbane; secondly, what it was doing at Middleton Reef; and, thirdly, what is the reason for navigational beacons and lights having been erected on the wreck of the MV 'Runic'. I think the Parliament is entitled to have some facts on those matters. Most important of all the maritime industry is entitled to those facts. I call on the Acting Minister to give a clear indication at this stage on whether an inquiry will be held at an early date. 
The Bill before the House at the moment is a Bill to ratify an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania to lend to that State a sum of $4,250,000 of which $2,500,000 will be by way of a repayable loan at the normal long term bond rate, which I believe at the moment is 7 per cent, and of which $ 1.75m will be by way of a nonrepayable grant. The object of this bill is to permit the State to build a new railway line from Launceston to Bell Bay. It is a railway which, in my opinion, is long overdue. It should have been built many years ago to assist the development of the northeastern section of Tasmania and the establishment and growth of industries in a State that has problems. Being an island it has transport problems that are not associated with the mainland. It is regrettable that this agreement has taken so long to negotiate. 
While the Opposition supports the measure, it believes that the Government should have been prepared to make the money available at a much earlier date than is proposed. One of the sound features of this Bill is the provision that the Tasmanian railways will be required to repay the loan within a period of 30 years by way of 60 equal repayments. This is an arrangement which should be introduced in respect of all the railway systems throughout the Commonwealth because many of them still owe money on rolling stock or lines that are no longer in use or perhaps in existence. The systems still owe money on tracks that have become redundant because services are no longer required or are uneconomical to run. In many cases railway departments have removed the lines and dispensed with the systems altogether. Rolling-stock has become antiquated and has been disposed of. The result is that these items no longer produce revenue to be used to repay loans that were raised originally to build the tracks and purchase rolling-stock. Railway systems as a whole throughout Australia find themselves in the ludicrous position of not having a source of revenue in these antiquated assets or even non-existent items. The result is that today the systems are heavily burdened with debt. 
I have said on a number of occasions in the House that it is time the Commonwealth did something to assist the States to liquidate their outstanding indebtedness. As I said a moment ago, the pleasing feature of this legislation is that the State of Tasmania will be required to repay the loan within a certain period. I hope that the proposed line will be sufficiently profitable to enable the loan to be repaid in the manner laid down in the agreement. This arrangement will put the Tasmanian railway system on a much better basis economically to operate efficiently in the interests of the State. If one examines the indebtedness of the Tasmanian railway system, one finds that the figure increased from $6,794,000 in 1950 to $20,848,000 at 30th June 1970, which is the latest date for which figures are available. The interest payments which this small railway system in a small State has had to make - and it is interest payments that are crippling the railway systems of Australia today - increased from $268,000 a year in 1950 to $1,185,000 in 1970. 
I hope that the Commonwealth will be able to devise ways and means whereby it will be able to assist not only the Tasmanian system but also the railways systems as a whole. Let us take as an example New South Wales. In 1970 interest payments by that State in respect of the railways' indebtedness amounted to $35m and it is expected that they will be about $40m next year. No railway system, no matter how profitable or how efficient it is, can carry this sort of burden and continue to function. I am glad that the Commonwealth has imposed these conditions of repayment - harsh though they may appear to be - but in reality, I believe, this arrangement is in the interests of the Tasmanian railway system as a whole. The Opposition supports the measure and gives it a speedy passage. 
The Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill seeks to ratify a loan which will, in the first instance be borrowed by the Government and then reallocated to Qantas. The loan of $11,310,400 is made up of $7,377,600 from the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America and 2 other loans of $3,106,300 and $826,500 from the Boeing Company. The purpose of this loan is to enable Qantas to purchase its fifth Boeing 747 aircraft. There are a few points with which I should like to deal before moving an amendment tothis Bill. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a  copy of a letter which was written by Qantas to the American Government giving details of this loan. The text of the letter was tabled in this House about a week ago by the Minister representing the Treasurer. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the capital expenditure on (a) navigational aids and other airways facilities, (b) runways, taxiways, etc., (c) building construction, 
land and building acquisitions, and (e) vehicles, airport plant, furniture, etc., in each of the last 10 years. 
What was the maintenance and operating expenditure on (a) runways, taxiways, etc., (b) buildings, (c) navigational aids and other communication facilities, (d) meteorological services, and (e) operational services and general expenses, in the same years. 
What was the revenue from (a) air navigation charges, (b) rentals, business trading rights, car park receipts, and other revenue, and (c) fuel tax, in the same years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation car. ried out a survey to ascertain how many and what percentage of (a) domestic and (b) international air travellers using Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport are (i) transit passengers from interstate and intrastate, (ii) visiting Sydney and (iii) Sydney residents. 
Is be able to say which Sydney suburbs are (a) being visited and (b) providing passengers. 
The appropriation before the Committee at the moment is for the Department of Shipping and Transport. I thought it was for $83,900,000 but we will not argue over a few million. Money comes and goes very easily in a place like this. The reason I have referred to the amount of the appropriation is that I want to draw attention to what I consider is the failure of this Government to give some clear indication of policy in the field of shipping and transport - just what it has in mind and what plans it has for the whole Department. This is a most important field. I believe that transport costs represent about 25 per cent of the total cost structure throughout the Commonwealth and this is a figure which cannot be disregarded. It is one which must be taken into consideration and I believe that some sort of statement from the Government is long overdue. 
This debate should commence with a statement by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on what are the Government's plans for transport. In other words, there should be a White Paper but this is a field in which the Government has failed to act. White Papers could be presented by each of the Ministers explaining Government policy - what is envisaged not only for the ensuing 12 months but also for the long term. Such statements could explain what the Government has in mind for the next 5 years or even the next 10 years. I hope that in the not distant future there will be a policy along this line to enable members, during the Estimates debates, to discuss long term planning in regard to transport. At present we have, instead, spasmodic statements by Ministers. I do not hold this against only the present Minister.  His  predecessors have done and other Ministers do the same thing. Ministers go to a school fete or a progress association meeting and make a statement on Government policy in a particular field. Such a statement should be made in the Parliament so that honourable members would have the opportunity to discuss and debate Government policies. 
One of the features of the Department of Shipping and Transport about which I am concerned is the updating of the Navigation Act. There have been minor amendments to the Navigation Act but no real effort has been made by this Government to tackle the problem of reviewing and updating the Act. When there were some major amendments to the Act back in 1967, the then Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Freeth,  gave members of the Australian Labour Party who interviewed him at that time an assurance that within a short time there would be a complete review of the Navigation Act. That was 4 years ago and still no proposal has been brought before the Parliament to update the Navigation Act. Thanks to the present Minister for Shipping and Transport, I had the privilege of receiving an invitation to attend the Australian Transport Conference which was held on 24th and 25th March this year. At that conference numerous papers were presented by men who were well and truly experienced in the field of transport. Without examining these papers in detail, there is one speech to which I should like to refer. It was a speech by  Mr Patterson.  I do not have time, with all respect to him, to list his full credentials but I can assure honourable members that he was well credentialled and was in a position to deal with his subject, which was shipping. Under the heading of 'Need to Update Legislation' - this was only one section with which he dealt -  Mr Patterson  went to great lengths and into detail to explain and almost to plead with the Government to do something about updating the Navigation Act. It was the unanimous view of people attending the conference that there was a need to update the Act. 
There is a need to provide dry docking facilities throughout the Commonwealth. I am vitally concerned about this because the State dockyard is in my electorate. For 5 years the New South Wales Government and this Government have been playing around with the question of the financing of a new graving dock for the State dockyard. To a certain extent, I put much of the blame on the New South Wales Minister for Works because he has not been prepared to take the step of saying: 'Right, it is our responsibility to build this dock. We are going to get on with the job and we hope that we can get some financial assistance'. I am convinced that financial assistance would have been forthcoming to make sure that the dock was a going concern. Docking facilities in Australia have reached a serious stage. The floating dock which was originally constructed to carry ships of 15,000 tons can now handle ships of only 9,000 tons. The Cairncross dock in Queensland is providing part of the service and I would hope that in the not distant future the report which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has can be brought down and a decision made. 
The same can be said about the Tariff Board inquiry. There is a need for a decision on the Tariff Board's report which, I believe, has been in the Department's hands since 12th July this year, even though the hearing originally commenced about 2 years ago. The Government should do something about these matters and I hope there will be some activity soon. At the Australian Transport Conference to which I referred the Commissioner for Main Roads from South Australia drew attention to the great need for national uniformity in respect of road transport. It is ludicrous that in a country of some 12.75 million people it is almost impossible to drive a fully laden truck from one State through the Commonwealth without running into problems concerning height, width, axle loads and so forth. I am only jumping through these subjects because I believe there is a need for this Government to do something about them. 
The Government should be active in the field of railways. I have some figures which I have quoted previously in this Parliament and which I shall keep on repeating because I think they are worthy of repeti tion. In 1951, the railways throughout Australia had a capital debt of S684m; in 1970, the debt had grown to Sl,541m. In 1950, the railways interest bill was $26.4m and in 1970 it was $73.125m. This gives some indication of the indebtedness of the State railway systems throughout Australia, yet we have no clear statement of policy from this Government to indicate whether it has any solution to this problem whereby there can be some reduction in the debt of the railways which, in turn, has a major effect on freight rates. I hope that the Minister will have something to say about this matter so that at least we can have some clear indication of policy. 
In my remaining time I should like to refer to the report of the Australian National Line which, in the main, deals with the activities of the Australian National Line. I am concerned about the losses that are being sustained by the 'Australian Endeavour'. On overseas trading I believe there has been a loss in the last 2 years of $4,538,705. This is too much. The general opinion of people in the shipping and stevedoring industry is that the Australian National Line has been taken for a ride, if I may use that term, by the more experienced people in the conference and that if a ship has had to leave Sydney or one of the other container ports with a light load, it has been the 'Australian Endeavour'. This is a case of a cellular container ship showing a loss while the roll-on roll-off ships that are operating on the Australia to Japan route are showing a profit. The Government is not providing this Parliament with sufficient detail of the activities of the Australian National Line. The Line loses over $3m in one year on trading and all that we can get are sketchy references without any great detail as to what factors have been associated with that Joss. I hope that in years to come we will be able to get some detail from the Government on individual ships and particular routes, explaining the trading position. 
Has the Acting Prime Minister noted the' announcement by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd that steel production will be cut by about 20 per cent? 
Does this reflect the depressed state of the economy? Is he aware of the serious increase in the numbers of unemployed in nearly every industry in all States? What plans has the Government to stop this serious curtailment of employment opportunities and to restore full employment? Has any consideration been given to protecting the jobs of Australian workers and saving new arrivals from the personal and economic disadvantages of unemployment by immediately restricting immigration to the spouse, children and parents of migrants already in Australia? 
In rising to speak to these estimates there are 3 matters to which I would like briefly to refer. One deals with general aviation and a recent NOTAM HO 19/1971 which was announced by the Department of Civil Aviation dealing with flight notification and movement reporting. This is a NOTAM which has brought about a considerable amount of discontent and dissatisfaction in general aviation circles today. This is a NOTAM which requires pilots planning a flight in excess of 50 miles to lodge a flight plan and regularly report. As a result of this there has been quite a deal of dissatisfaction, and it has probably caused more trouble and more discontent in general aviation circles than has any other NOTAM that has been brought down by the Department for some considerable time. 
I know that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is fully conversant with Civil Aviation affairs, and when he replies to this debate 1 would like him to advise the Parliament whether the Department of Civil Aviation conferred with all the associations concerned regarding this NOTAM. Did the Department at any time give any indication that it would confer with the associations? If it did, why was a conference not held? In lieu of a NOTAM such as this one dealing with  flight notification and movement reporting has the Department at any time given consideration to the compulsory fitting of crash beacons to all aircraft, because primarily the reason for this NOTAM is to assist the Department in carrying out search and rescue operations when an accident occurs? If the regulation I suggest was introduced it may have the same effect. 
The other matter to which I would like to refer is the Air Safety Investigation Branch's report on the DC8-727 accident that occurred at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on the night of 29th January, 1971. the Opposition is completely dissatisfied with the set-up of the Air Safety Investigation Branch. This is a branch of the Department of Civil Aviation which has the responsibility of investigating all air  acccidents  throughout Australia. We believe that this branch of the Department of Civil Aviation should not be responsible to the Department of Civil Aviation because so very often it has to investigate accidents involving the Department. Therefore it gives the impression of Caesar appealing to Caesar or Caesar investigating Caesar. We strongly urge the Government to have the Air Safety Investigation Branch transferred from the Department of Civil Aviation to the jurisdiction of the Attorney-General, someone completely dissociated from its investigations and who would be in a position to accept its reports and present them to this Parliament as required. There is sufficient full time work for an Air Safety Investigation Branch because in Australia during 1970-71 there were 277 aircraft accidents in which 65 people were killed. The Branch should be brought under some separate authority rather than being left under the control of the Department of Civil Aviation. I want very quickly to deal with this report. I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard the  conclusons  on page 36 of the report. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
3 - CONCLUSIONS 
The flight crews of both aircraft involved in this accident and the air traffic controllers on duty in Sydney Tower were all appropriately licensed for the duties they were undertaking. The pilot-in-command of the DC8-63 aircraft, CF- 
CPQ, however, had not satisfied all of the applicable route and airport familiarisation requirements prior to commencing this flight. 
There is no evidence of any defect in either aircraft which could have contributed to this accident. 
Both aircraft were loaded within the safe limits applicable to each. 
A taxying clearance ' . . . take taxiway right - call on 121.7' issued by the aerodrome controller to CF-CPQ as it neared the end of ils landing roll was not given adequate attention by the flight crew, who misread it as '. . . backtrack if you like - change to 121.7'. The aircraft was then turned through 180 degrees to backtrack on the runway, instead of entering an immediately, available taxiway as was intended by the aerodrome controller. 
The aerodrome controller did not recognise the difficulties of visual perception in the circumstances that prevailed and this, in conjunction with the slow manoeuvre of the aircraft on the runway as well as its direction of movement and position in relation to the taxiway entrance, led him to believe that CF-CPQ had taxied off the runway in accordance with the instructions issued. 
The aerodrome controller issued, to VH-TJA a clearance for take-off when the runway was still obstructed by CF-CPQ 
The flight crew of VH-TJA state that, at the commencement of their take-off, they did not observe CF-CPQ on the runway as an obstruction. Nevertheless CF-CPQ was observed at a time when the take-off could have been abandoned with safety. The pilot-in-command of VH-TJA elected to continue the take-off and attempted to overfly the obstructing aircraft. 
Although the obstructing aircraft could have been cleared quite safely, by the adoption of a steeper initial climb angle, the pilot-in-command of VH-TJA adhered to the normal take-off technique and the underside of his aircraft came into collision with the tail fin of CF-CPQ. Although substantially damaged, VH-TJA continued in flight, and after dumping fuel, landed at Sydney Airport again without further damage. 
CAUSE: The cause of this accident was that the taxying clearance given after landing was misread by the flight crew of CF-CPQ and this error was not detected by the aerodrome controller, who cleared VH-TJA for take-off. The flight crew of VH-TJA, on detecting the obstructing aircraft, did not then adopt the most effective means of avoiding a collision. 
I am concerned at what I have been advised are numerous irregularities in the report. First and foremost the captain of the DC8 should never have been in command of that aircraft. It was a breach of Australian Air Navigation regulations. The regulations are quite clear and are contained in the report. The report discloses also that this experienced flight crew which had logged hundreds of hours flying DC8 aircraft could not distinguish which switch to  throw to shut off the flight recorder recording the conversation between the tower and flight deck of the aircraft. They threw the wrong switch and the tape recording went on and on. It goes on for an hour. When the investigators moved in to find out what the conversation had been I believe all they got was a conversation between the cleaners cleaning out the aircraft. To me that was a fix. 
What also concerns me is that while another aircraft was still obstructing the runway the control tower gave clearance to the 727 aircraft to take off. I cannot understand how the control tower lost sight of the aircraft and did not know where it was. I cannot understand why, when given instructions to turn off into the next taxi-way, the tower did not follow the aircraft. To me there has been a hellish falling down in responsibility in this case. Under the heading 'Cause' in the conclusions, the report states: 
The flight crew of VH-TJA, on detecting the obstructing aircraft, did not then adopt the most effective means of avoiding a collision. 
I now want to quote from a book, Handling the Big Jets', by D. P. Davies. In aviation circles this is regarded as a text book for men learning and operating 727 aircraft. On pages 182 and 183 the following appears: 
Take-off distance can be greatly influenced by the rotation speed, the rotation rate and attitude and it is important to understand immediately that varying Vp cannot possibly effect an improvement in take-off distance without reducing the overall safety of the manoeuvre. 
This means that the recommendations and findings of the committee which investigated this accident are all baloney because the committee said that the pilot should have adopted other procedures. Recently members of the Parliamentary Labor Party Transport Committee were shown a film prepared by the Boeing company about Boeing 727 aircraft. This film disclosed clearly that if the pilot of an aircraft starting from the correct roll position attempted to lift off before the correct time he would pass a certain point at a height lower than if he folowed the procedure laid down in the directions as to how these aircraft should be flown. 
As far as this accident inquiry is concerned, I believe it is a home town decision that has been brought down by the investigating committee to cover up mistakes that occurred not only in the tower but also in the handling on the runway on that particular night. The Government should order a fresh inquiry by an independent authority so that the facts can be brought out and so that persons interested in this matter can present evidence clearly under oath. By this means we can get the facts. This is an important matter. The report did not disclose what happened to the East-West Airlines Ltd Fokker Friendship which was lined up behind the 727. The facts of the matter are that the Fokker took off without the knowledge of- the control tower. The control had cleared it and the Fokker Friendship took off. 
I want now quickly to outline the position on the runway at the relevant time and 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the paragraph in the report headed 'Wreckage Distribution' because it outlines clearly that as a result of this collision the southern portion of the runway was strewn with aircraft fragments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
Wreckage Distribution. 
As a result of this collision the southern portion of Runway 16 was strewn with many hundreds of small aircraft fragments together with some larger components. The larger elements of the wreckage were moved off the runway by the emergency crews shortly after the accident in order to allow VH-TJA to land on the longest into-wind runway and so, in the investigation phase, it was not possible to reconstruct a precise and useful pattern of wreckage distribution. An examination of the scene on the following morning, however, showed that the most northerly items of wreckage were just off the edge of the runway at a point corresponding very closely with the southern edge of the General Holmes Drive underpass (i.e. 6,286 feet from the northern end of the runway). From this point further southward, the runway and the immediately adjacent grassed areas were liberally strewn with aircraft fragments. The intensity of distribution was greatest in the vicinity of the runway entrance to Taxiway T and then it progressively decreased towards the southern end of the runway. 
Two items of wreckage fell from VH-TJA into suburbs north of the airport, apparently during the aircraft's final approach for landing after the accident. These items were identified as sections of the starboard main undercarriage doors. 
That aircraft took off when the main runway of the Sydney Airport was littered with fragments of the smash. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 The 5 Bills before the House at the moment basically deal with the means whereby the Government can increase the tax on diesel fuel, petrol, aviation fuel and also on tobacco and cigarettes. I want to deal with the section relating to diesel fuel, aviation fuel and petrol. The 2c a gallon increase in this year's Budget following a 3c a gallon increase last year is an impost that the motorist and the air transport system should not be called upon to pay. This Government allegedly is concerned with inflation and a serious inflationary spiral is evident in the country today. The Government is endeavouring to throw the onus completely on the wage earner and the trade unions and is calling on the employers to exercise restraint by not granting wage increases. It is also threatening to bring down legislation to penalise trade unions for taking industrial action to gain an increase in wages to try to keep pace with the inflationary spiral. Yet at the same time we have found in this Budget and in the Government's previous Budget all the ingredients for the present serious inflationary spiral. 
Transport costs are recognised as comprising something like 25 per cent of the total cost structure of this country. This being such a substantial percentage of that cost structure, I just cannot understand the reasoning adopted by the Government in imposing this heavy tax in the last 2 years on the 3 types of fuel to which I have referred, namely diesel fuel, petrol and aviation fuel. It is a tax which should not be imposed on the transport system. In turn it floats right through the economy pushing up prices all the way through. It affects not only the cost of transport of goods and freight but also fares and every facet of transport. 
I want to deal firstly with civil aviation. The Government announced an increase of 2c a gallon in aviation fuel in the Budget on 17th August. On 23rd August the airlines announced an increase of approximately 64 per cent in all air fares. As an example, this means that a first class air fare from Sydney to Melbourne increased from $31 to $33, an immediate increase of $2, and that an economy class fare increased from S25.60 to $27.30, an increase of $1.70. This must have an effect on every facet of the economy when increases such as this take place. How does one condemn or criticise the airlines for this increase when the Government is the one that is basically responsible for it? But the worst effect of ali is felt in the road transport industry where the increases that have been levied in the past 2 years obviously must be having a serious effect on costs. 
In the application of diesel fuel tax and petrol tax there is an anomalous position. I want to draw attention to a few facts. For example, a 7-ton truck using petrol would average 7 to 8 miles a gallon. Of course there are many contingencies as to the amount of the load of the vehicle and other factors, but this is an average figure. The same sized truck using diesel fuel would average 15 to 16 miles a gallon. So in this one example the user of diesel fuel is getting a very decided and distinct advantage over the petrol user. They are both using the same road and they are both doing the same job; but one has the distinct advantage of getting almost double the mileage. In other words, the operator of the truck that is using petrol will be paying 17.3c a gallon tax and getting an average of 7 to 8 miles a gallon, and the diesel fuel user will be paying the same amount of tax but he will be getting 15 to 16 miles a gallon. I think this is an aspect which the Government should be looking at. lt should be considering whether diesel fuel tax and petrol tax should be levied at the one rate or whether the information I have just brought to the attention of the House should be taken into consideration. People in the motor industry assure me that a petrol driven motor uses approximately twice as much fuel as does a motor operating on diesel fuel. I ask the Government to look at whether the tax on diesel fuel should remain  as  it is. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard 2 tables which have been prepared by the Parliamentary Library Research Service. 
I thank the House. This table discloses that between the years 1962-63 and 1971-72 the Commonwealth will have collected $2,534m in  umm-.  *- -[124]  taxes from this field and will have paid to the States SI. 630m, leaving a total excess of about S903m of revenue collected over the amount allocated to the States. During the currency of the present Commonwealth aid roads agreement, from 1969-70 to 1973-74 1 estimate, from the figures which have already been made available and the fact that the tax has been increasing at the rate of about 8 per cent per annum, that the Commonwealth will have collected approximately S2,045m and will be repaying to the States only SI, 252m leaving, in that 5-year period, a surplus to the Commonwealth Treasury of something like $793m. The worst feature of this is not only the fact that the Commonwealth is retaining so much of the petrol tax but also that it is showing clearly that it is using the tax as a form of revenue and not for its original purpose. The general principle of the Commonwealth aid roads agreement and the petrol tax was to assist the States to build roads and to provide them with the necessary finance. The petrol tax was based on the principle that those who use the roads the most will make the greatest contribution to their construction. 
In 1969-70 the allocation to the States was SI 93m; in 1 970-7 r it was $2 18m; and in 1971-72 it will be $245.25m. Many people have overlooked the point thai in this period there has been a serious increase in average weekly earnings. I have completely disregarded the first year, when average weekly earnings increased by a little over 8 per cent, but in 1970-71 there was an 11.3 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. If this percentage were deducted from the $2 18m which was allocated to the States under the Commonwealth aid roads agreement, it would bring the States' allocation back almost on par with what they were allocated in the first year, namely, $193m. On my figures, in real monetary terms, the States received only $196m in 1970-71. Even though they were allocated $2 18m by the Commonwealth, this would pay for only the same amount of road construction as was undertaken in the previous year. This year the States have been allocated S245m but once again taking 1 1 .3 per cent as the figure by which wages will increase this year, the States will receive in real monetary value $198m. So, in actual fact, even though the 
Government set out to give the States an escalating amount each year so that they could plan an increased programme of road construction. This programme will not be achieved as a result of Commonwealth assistance. The allocation is still on a par with the 1969-70 allocation and I believe that it is now time for the Government to review the Commonwealth aid roads agreement which allocates to the States $ 1,252m over a 5-year period. I have already shown honourable members how the allocations for last year and this year will be reduced by at least $69m. If this Government is sincere in its desire to do something for an improved road system in Australia, there is only one way to go about it and that is to review the whole system as it now stands. 
The Opposition believes that sufficient emphasis has not been placed on the need to construct a national roads system in Australia. The Commonwealth Government appears to be leaving too much to the States which can make decisions as they feel so inclined. The Government is not concentrating on a national roads system. When President Kennedy was President of the United States of America, he brought down a mammoth national road construction Bill which provided for the construction of roads in the interests of the development of the United States of America. If ever a country needed something of this nature to open it up and to provide the means of transport at fair, reasonable and economic rates it is Australia and the Commonwealth Government should be giving the lead. It should not be leaving it wholly and solely to the States. It should be bringing forward plans and saying to the States in the same way as it does in connection with universities: 'We are prepared to put up this amount of money for this particular project which will be in the interests of Australia if the State is prepared to make matching grants available for this purpose'. In this way, we could develop a national roads system instead of what exists at present - an uneconomic State roads system where everything is centralised on the State's capital. Instead of it being in the interests of the Commonwealth, it is in the interests of individual States. 
With regard to urban transport we seem to be in the terrible situation where the only plans which exist at the moment are to build more roads in the capital cities. We see the expressways that are being built in Sydney and Melbourne and in almost every major city in Australia today. These roads are being built at great cost to the States and in turn at great cost to the Australian taxpayers. But in actual fact what we should be doing is trying to encourage people requiring transport, particularly in the capital cities, to use public transport. For example, the Eastern Suburbs railway is under construction in Sydney. It was originally estimated to cost $8 5m, but probably it will cost $100m or $11Om This rail system will provide a means foi transporting people from the centre of the city into the Eastern Suburbs in the same way as Sydney's existing rail system transports people. Sydney's rail system can carry between 40,000 and 50,000 people per hour. One can compare that with the number of people who can use the road systems in Melbourne. A survey conducted in Melbourne some 5 years ago showed that the roads in that city were completely clogged with traffic, and that the number of people travelling in private vehicles on those roads was approximately 2,400 per lane per hour. When one compares that figure with the 40,000 to 50,000 people who are carried by Sydney's rail system per hour, I believe that what the Commonwealth Government should be doing is giving an incentive to the States to improve their public transport systems; to provide a better means of conveyance. 
This is a modern age in which everybody accepts air-conditioning not as a luxury but as a fact of life. Why cannot trains and buses be air-conditioned and made more attractive to the traveller, as is the case in other major cities throughout the world? I believe that travelling by train in Melbourne is a hazard and that in Sydney one uses electric trains only when one has the choice of either using them or walking. This should not be the position. People should be encouraged to travel in trains which are of a comparable standard to those in other cities in the world. Cheap off-peak fares should be made available to people. Instead of increasing fares all the time we should try to reduce them, and the Commonwealth Government can do this by making money available to the States by way of non-repayable grants,  so  that they can get on with the job of providing transport, rather than by making loans available to the States which, as I have said repeatedly in this place, results in the State transport systems having to carry huge capital debts and to meet huge annual interest payments. Whilst the States are meeting these payments obviously they cannot provide cheap transport for the people. 1 believe that this is what the Commonwealth Government should be doing. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board.. 
When a certificate of compliance is issued by the Board that a motor vehicle complies with Australian design rules, what laboratory tests are conducted and by whom. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the resentment which has been aroused among- present staff, retrenched staff and supporters of Australia's hard-pressed national airline by bis use of American air carriers when Qantas flights were available? Was he correctly reported as saying that he chose the American carriers for the extra space available in their 747 Jumbo aircraft? Does he still think that his personal comfort is sufficient justification for handing to the competitors  of  Qantas a public relations triumph, especially as he failed to gain from the American Government the routes or rights upon which the future profitability of Qantas so largely depends? 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the rail freight on general freight between (a) Coffs Harbour and Brisbane, (b) Coffs Harbour and Sydney, (c) Mildura and Melbourne, (d) Mildura and Adelaide, (e) Mount Gambier and Adelaide and (f) Mount Gambier and Melbourne. 
What is the distance by rail in each case. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What was the cost of railway rolling-stock (a) built in Australia and (b) imported for (i) each State railway (ii) Commonwealth Railways and (iii) each private company in each of the last 10 years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, ernestly request our Government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Have 21 years elapsed since the Tariff Board commenced its inquiry into the shipbuilding industry and has its report been in the  hands of the Government since 12th July this year? Has a Cabinet sub-committee been considering the location of a new graving dock for over 12 months? Has the Newcastle State Dockyard submitted a plan for the construction of a new graving dock capable of docking and repairing large bulk carriers and tankers operating on the coast? Further, I ask whether the right honourable gentleman has any information as to what progress has been made with these reports and when a decision can be expected. Finally,I ask how much longer is the Government going to sit on the reports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation the following question upon notice: 
Did the aerodrome controller at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport advise East-West Airlines F27 aircraft VH-EWJ lo cancel line-up clearance hold position on 29th January, 1971 at 2135 : 54 hours. 
If so, at what time did this aircraft take-off and from which runway. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation the following question, upon notice: 
Was it stated in the Accident Investigation Report DC8-63 Aircraft CF-CPQ and Boeing 727 Aircraft VH-TJA at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, New South Wales, on 29th Hanuary 1971 in conclusions on page 36, that the cause of this accident was that the taxying clearance given after landing was misread by the flight crew of CF-CPQ and this error was not detected by the aerodrome controller, who cleared VH-TJA for take-off and that the flight crew of VH-TJA, on detecting the obstructing aircraft, did not adopt the most effective means of avoiding a collision. 
If so, can the Minister say what procedure should have been adopted by the flight crew of VH-TJA to avoid a collision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, on notice: 
Was it stated in the Accident Investigation Report DC8-63 aircraft CF-CPQ and Boeing 727 aircraft VH-TJA at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, New South Wales on 29th January 1971 in conclusion No. 7 on page 36 that the flight crew of TJA state that at the commencement of their take-off, they did not observe CF-CPQ on the runway as an obstruction, that nevertheless CF-CPQ was observed at a time when the take-off could have been abandoned with safety, and that the pilot-in-command of VH-TJA elected to continue the take-off and attempted to over-fly the obstructing aircraft. 
If so, can the Minister state on what grounds the conclusion that the pilot-in-command of VH-TJA could have safely abandoned the takeoff was arrived at. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the net profit of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited has risen in 4 years from $46m to $68m and now represents an earning rate of 24.1 per cent? Does this mean that capital invested could be recovered in 4 years? Does he consider that such a substantial rate of profit justifies a 5.3 per cent increase in the price of steel? Would it not be fair and proper for the Government to urge this nationally protected company, which has made huge profits over the past 25 years, to exercise restraint at a time when the Government has been applying pressure on average wage and salary earners to exercise restraint? If the BHP company was not asked to set an example, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that Qantas had arranged for the installation of an $18m computer. 
If so, on what date was installation commenced. 
If installation has not commenced, what is the scheduled commencement date. 
Was  the installation originally scheduled  for  commencement in July 1971. 
If there has been a delay, what has been the (a) cause and (b) consequent loss of revenue. 
Is the computer aimed to overcome some of the inefficiencies in the present system particularly with the Boeing 747. 
Has there been a curtailment of plans to extend the system to overseas stations because other operators have installed computers in advance of Qantas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does Qantas conduct any management or business training schemes particularly in the business techniques which are used by other international operators. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When pilots of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots employed by Qantas went on strike from 24th November 1966 to 22nd December 1966, was a claim for compensation made under the Seat Pool Agreement between Qantas, BOAC, Air India, Air New Zealand and MalaysiaSingapore Airlines. 
If so, how much compensation was received. 
If no claim was made or compensation received, can the Minister say why not 
The Opposition has raised today the question of the future of the Australian aircraft industry by way of this discussion of a matter of public importance because the Opposition is concerned about the future of this important industry. It is providing employment for approximately 6,600 men and women, very highly skilled people, who cannot be replaced overnight. The industry has been built up over the years to an efficient industry. All that it requires is a continuity of employment and a continuity of orders. Therefore, if it receives them from the Government - it is the Government that can provide this work - the industry can continue to expand and prosper and provide this country with a very important defence industry. 
Let me make a few points before I deal with the subject as a whole. The statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  when he said that the Services must consider the performance of Project N before they can make a decision on whether to recommend to the Government that it be purchased and proceeded with, astounds me. Surely, before the prototypes were designed and developed to their present stage, the Department of Defence, the Department of Air and the Department of the Army discussed with the Government Aircraft Factories what they would like to have incorporated in the aircraft and what they would want it to do. Such things would be of major importance. We all know that most aircraft in the world today basically depend upon a military version first of all being expanded and developed. The Minister's statement surprises me. I cannot understand what he meant. He also made reference to the fact that the light helicopters which are being purchased by the Services are costing about 32 per cent more because of the Australian cost component. This situation comes back once again to the failure of the Government to ensure a continuity of work and a continuity of experience by the Australian aircraft industry. 
As with the Ikara missile and the other important defence components that have been built by the Government Aircraft Factories over the years, one of the things that has hindered the manufacturers year after year has been the fact that they have received orders in tens and twelves. They have never had a real run of continuity of production. They have had small orders. Every time they get an order they have a small runthrough on it. They are tooled up for the $20m Brazilian order for the Ikara, but there is a break in the continuity of work on the various component parts as some design work has to be done. This all costs money. This is why the costs of the Australian aircraft industry are up. There is a requirement for continuity of work, design experience and everything else that goes to keep an industry up to date with what is happening throughout the world. 
I believe that this debate today has revolved around 2 points. At the moment the industry, particularly the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, is greatly concerned about what will happen if these 2 organisations merge. The Opposition supports the proposition that they should merge because, first and foremost, we believe that by a merger of these 2 organisations we can achieve a viable economic organisation which can ensure continuity of employment and development in the aircraft industry. It should eliminate, or we hope it will eliminate, some of the overlapping which so seriously affects the industry at the moment. But we support the merger of GAF and CAG with these reservations: We believe that the merger should be based on the value of the assets of the 2 organisations which are to be moulded into one and that the merger should include all the operations - I emphasise the words 'all the operations' - of both organisations. Never mind picking out and retaining for one section that portion which is financially attractive and out of which a profit can be made. It should be a matter of one in all in or one out ail out. 
In my opinion it is most important that the conditions of the employees of the merging organisations should be guaranteed. I think one of the first things that the Minister for Supply, who stated that he had received and read a report on the proposed merger, should do is to tell the employees of these 2 organisations that their superannuation rights and existing conditions of employment will be protected. Other industries that have taken place in mergers have had to contend with this question of superannuation. The Government should make an early decision on this matter and should put the minds of people in the industry at rest. 
Ministers have stated that the Government is assisting the aircraft industry. I am not satisfied that it is assisting the aircraft industry to its maximum capacity. None of the Ministers who have spoken already in this debate has produced any evidence that the government is doing something positive. In the past 10 years our airline operators - Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia - have purchased from overseas aircraft to a total value of $540m. Qantas has purchased in that period $365m worth of aircraft. TAA and Ansett have purchased $175m worth, and only in recent weeks the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  announced that approval had been granted to TAA and Ansett each to purchase four Boeing 727 200 series aircraft at a total cost of $67. 5m. Also in the past 10 years commuter aircraft - they are the little aircraft that carry 6, 7 and up to about 10 passengers - to the value of $6,528,000 have been purchased for use in Australia. I have not taken into consideration the huge amount that has been spent on the Fill. I have referred only to purchases of the domestic aircraft. 
What has the Australian aircraft industry really got out of these purchases. None of the Ministers has given us the facts. The real position is that the industry has received offset payments to a value of a little over $5m. What a very small amount of money that is in the form of offset payments against the huge amount that has been spent overseas. Just imagine what could bc done to stabilise the Australian aircraft industry if much better deals had been made. Other countries have been able to negotiate through their commercial airline operators much more favourable offset payment arrangements than we have been able to negotiate. In this field the Government has failed badly in maintaining a continuity of employment for its own industry. Certainly it has had the Mirage, the Macchi and aircraft of this type built in Australia. But in my opinion all that the Government did in relation to those aircraft is what it should have done; it has really done nothing to force the commercial operators to negotiate decent offset payments. Even at the present time in the replacement of the Macchi trainer there is an excellent opportunity for the Australian aircraft industry to break into the field of design and development and to have a decent throughput of work on the aircraft which was mentioned by the Minister - the HS1182, which is an English aircraft being designed by the British Government. The Government should be moving on this aircraft and doing something positive about it so that the Australian industry can develop. 
Finance is most important. Until such time as the Government is prepared to establish an institution on the lines of the American Export-Import Bank or the British Export Credits Guarantee Department to assist the sale of Project N, we will not get anywhere in Australia. I do not want to waste my time talking about the virtues of Project N, but the Government could really provide some assistance to the Australian aircraft industry in the sale of an aircraft such as Project N, and the sale of the HS1182 and other aircraft. We know that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation missed out on the sale of Macchi trainer jets to the Royal New Zealand Air Force because of one thing only - the Corporation was not in a position to compete, not in relation to the price of the aircraft, but in relation to the financial arrangements that the British Government was able to make. Therefore we lost the sale of that aircraft. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What sums have been spent by - 
the Commonwealth Government 
State Governments and 
local government bodies at airports on - 
new runways, 
runway extensions, 
runway maintenance, 
navigational aids and, 
airport terminals, in each financial year since 30th June 1965. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Ansett Airlines of Australia and Qantas submit proposals for a national airline in Papua New Guinea to the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Transport. 
Was Trans-Australia Airlines prevented from submitting a proposal, if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to remarks by  Mr M.  Morris, M.L.A., New South Wales Minister for Transport, on 18th November 1971 in which he stated that he was ashamed of the Federal Government for what it was doing to motorists and claimed that motorists were being treated like milking cows, that the Federal Government was taking the lion's share of motorists' taxation, that the Commonwealth was making paupers of the States, causing increases in motor vehicle taxation which would not be necessary if the Commonwealth returned all the money collected in fueltax from New South Wales motorists, that the Commonwealth had denied the Slate $40m each year in not returning fuel tax money for road development, that not a cent of the $40m had been spent on roads, and that the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States had forced the New South Wales Government to impose taxes which it did not want to impose. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to each of these claims. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say, in which years since 1950 freights and fares were increased in respect of each State Rail System and the Commonwealth Railways. 
If so, what was the amount of the increase in each case. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what (a) was the outstanding debt and (b) were the interest payments for (i) each Stale Rail System and (ii) the Commonwealth Railways for each of the financial years 1949-1950, 1959-1960 and 1969-1970. 
If so, how much of the debt and interest payments was owed and paid to overseas investors. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what was the (a) value of assets, (b) outstanding debt, (c) amount of loan repayments, (d) amount of interest payments and (e) profit or loss for the year's trading for each State Rail System and the Commonwealth Railways as at 30th June each year since 1950. 
I present the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizzens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a norma] business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
One is forced to raise the subject of the need for an even-handed 2-airline policy as a definite matter of public importance because of the apparent reluctance of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who is in the other place, to report to the Parliament on this important and contentious subject. Since the honourable senator has been Minister for Civil Aviation he has made only 2 statements in the Senate in relation to civil aviation. One dealt with a second airport for Sydney and the other was in relation to a report on an accident to a Boeing 707 aircraft. This is notwithstanding the fact that during the time that the honourable senator has been the Minister he did not report, as he should have done, upon many contentious and important subjects. For example, there were the embargo by the United States of America on the Qantas Airways Boeing 747 operating into that country; the additional schedules which were granted to American airline operators on the Pacific route; concorde pollution and supersonic flight across Australia. Yet after the Senate rose last week - for what we could probably describe as the Easter recess - after weeks of contentious questioning by members of the Opposition who were trying to obtain information on the last mentioned subject the Minister made a statement on the matter. No statement has been made in Parliament about the problems associated with international charter operations or about the present crisis which exists at Qantas on the possibility of additional layoff of staff. Therefore in order to obtain a debate on the subject of the 2-airline policy the Opposition has had to resort to raising it as a definite matter of public importance. 
At the present time the matter about which I am mainly concerned is the recently announced purchase by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd of a 23i per cent interest in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This purchase must have a most telling effect on Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. When this purchase of shares takes effect it will represent a total turnover of about $300m by ATI and TNT. Yet the Government has seen no reason why a statement should be made to the Parliament. Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd is a major transport operator having operations not only in Australia but also in New Zealand, the United States of America and Canada. It is involved not only in road transport, sea transport, and now air transport, but also in television and tourism which includes hotels and bus tours. From my information, up to the present time TNT has, in the main, placed half its business with TAA and the other half with Ansett, both in passenger traffic and freight operations. It is the logical conclusion that now TNT and the companies with which it is associated because of the inter-connection of shareholding and part ownership in other companies, TAA business will go to the company with which TNT has a major shareholding, namely, 23percent.This will have a major effect on TAA. 
We on this side of the House are not opposed to the kite flying which is taking place at the present time for an extension of the 2-airline system. We know that the agreement will run until 1977. I accept the logic that it is fair and reasonable for a new agreement to be drawn up. We are not going to let the agreement run until 1977 before a new agreement is drawn up. The Opposition realises the logic of this situation. But the Government is in a state of turmoil. It is divided. It has no clear policy on any subject. It should be left to the incoming Parliament or the incoming Minister for Civil Aviation or Minister for Transport, as the case may be, to make the decision and to negotiate a new 2-airline policy which will be fair and equitable to all operators and not as it is at the present moment. Today the operations are very one-sided. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard page 6 of the 1971 report of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, which discloses the whole of the Company's operations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="077131197203281_38_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="077131197203281_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

This fully sets out the diversification of the operations of ATI. I consider it is most important that TAA should be given opportunities similar to those which Ansett has to attract traffic in form of either passengers or freight. I hope that when the new agreement is drawn up these facts will be taken into consideration. At the present moment ATI has a monopoly on operations in Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria. One of the unfair aspects of the 2-airline agreement is that TAA is in competition with Ansett on interstate operations in Queensland. In New South Wales, East West Airlines Ltd probably plays the role of TAA. Ansett has approximately half the business in New South Wales. We consider that Queensland can be left alone and New South Wales can be left alone because East West is feeding traffic into TAA. But there should be some arrangement or agreement in relation to the other States. I am not going to say that in Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria TAA and Ansett should operate aircraft on every route. I know that that would be uneconomic and it is not what we are advocating. We are saying that after due consideration of the relevant economics of each of these routes provision should be made for a rationalisation whereby - I am using this as an example of my thoughts - in Western Australia Ansett retains the whole of the intrastate operations and to balance the situation TAA has the monopoly on intrastate operations in Victoria and South Aus tralia. In this way there would be a true operation of a 2-airline system. For example, in Western Australia since December 1968 TAA has been trying to obtain permission to operate from Perth to Darwin and intermediate airports. To save time, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard question No. 4372 placed on notice by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the answer supplied by the Minister for Civil Aviation through the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
That question and answer sets out clearly the endeavours by TAA to enter intrastate operations in Western Australia. It is important that TAA have this opportunity to operate intrastate so that a flow on of traffic is provided for its interstate services. In Western Australia, MacRobertson-Miller Airlines is now fully owned by Ansett Transport Industries. It is estimated than in respect of flow on traffic the earnings of MMA are between $3m and S3. 5m. I would not like to estimate the value to Ansett of the flow on traffic in South Australia and Victoria. It must be worth mil lions of dollars to Ansett. The benefit of that flow on traffic should be available to TAA also. 
Up to date, TAA has- not been able to compete fully. Rationalisation of passengers and mail occurs on competitive routes. But Ansett has a complete monopoly in this respect on non-competitive routes. No attempt is made, even on competitive routes, for Ansett and TAA to share freight. They share mail only. This is revenue derived completely from the Commonwealth. Each must get what it can out of freight work. Let me mention a recent example of what happens. TAA was debarred from submitting a proposal to the select committee of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly inquiring into the future operations of airlines in that country after it achieves independence. Replying to a question that I asked, the Minister stated that under its present charter TAA was not in a position to be able to submit a proposal. 
The Opposition believes that TAA should be permitted to diversify its activities. In the limited time available to me, this is what I wish to put forward most clearly. In each of the States TAA should be permitted half of the airline business or, as I said earlier, operations should be rationalised by a break up of work in each of the States. Hotels and tourism are an excellent source of flow on revenue to Ansett. Surely TAA should be in a position either to set up its own tourist activities including its own hotels or motels as part of its operations or be permitted to operate in a much freer vein than it does at the present time in order to negotiate arrangements with existing hotels, motels and other tourist groups. In this way TAA will be able to compete genuinely with Ansett. The same remarks apply in relation to bus tours. Ansett Transport Industries at the present time has tourist activities with buses. Some operations are part bus, part airline. People travel so far on bus and are then transported for the rest of their journey by air. TAA should be permitted to move into this activity. 
I turn to parallel scheduling. It is time that Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia were directed by the 
Minister for Civil Aviation to dispense with parallel timetabling. They should experiment with what they consider are appropriate timetables. Let me give an example. Presently TAA and Ansett operate 100 air schedules each a week between Sydney and Melbourne. Of that number, each airline operates 92 services at parallel times. Only 4 flights by TAA and 4 by Ansett operate at different times. This is a clear example of the need to dispense with parallel timetabling and at least to force the airlines to adopt different timetables. I recall the situation that existed when TAA tried to experiment with concessional air fares for travel outside peak hours. Ansett disagreed with this proposal. What was the result? No off peak fare concessions were introduced. Similarly, TAA sought to introduce Caravelle aircraft. Ansett did not want Caravelles and TAA was forced to purchase Electras instead. These are the situations which exist in respect of many aspects of the 2-airline policy. 
In conclusion, I refer to the finances of the 2 operators. I have here a copy of the annual report of Ansett Transport Industries. I defy any accountant in Australia to tell me or this Parliament what profit was made last year by Ansett on its airline operations. I turn to the annual report of TAA. The biggest mug in the world can tell what profit was made by TAA. Under a new 2-airline policy we believe that Ansett should be required to set up a separate company dealing with its airline operations and associated activities. TAA would operate under the same agreement on equal terms. A company would be formed by Ansett to operate in this field so that it can be clearly established whether TAA is operating efficiently or whether Ansett is operating efficiently. At the present moment TAA could be the most inefficient operator in the world and the only person who knew that would be Ansett. To me, that is not good enough. There is only one way out of the situation. That is for these 2 companies carrying on identical operations to furnish identical balance sheets. 
The proposal that this matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion was prompted by the recent announcement by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd that it had purchased 23  per cent of the shareholding in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. That announcement was made 3 weeks ago. Then as late as last Friday a further statement was made by TNT to the effect that it was making a takeover offer, involving some $46m, for the remainder of the shares in Ansett Transport Industries. This is the real reason why the Opposition wants to debate this matter of which I gave notice. The Government is involved in this matter as far as franchises are concerned. It is involved in regard to, firstly, the 2 television station licences which are held by Ansett Transport Industries and, secondly, the 2-alrline policy. 
What concerns me and other members of the Australian Labor Party is that 3 weeks ago, when TNT made the announce ment that it had purchased a 23  per cent share interest in Ansett Transport Industries, a week elapsed without any statement from the Government. It was at that point of time, a fortnight ago, that the Opposition felt that it should raise this matter in the Parliament in an endeavour to get from the Government some clear statement of policy as to its attitude, particularly in view of the Government's involvement in this matter. On that occasion I raised for discussion in this Parliament, as a matter of public importance, the need for an even-handed 2-airline policy. I thought that the debate on that occasion was very good, but unfortunately the Government once again saw fit to make no clear statement on policy. In fact the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  on behalf of his colleague in another place, made this statement: 
Obviously this introduces a new factor, the significance of which at present is not possible to assess. But it must be taken into consideration in the review of the policy for the future. At present it is not possible to make any comment, other than that the matter will be taken into consideration . . . 
So it had taken the Government a week, following the acquisition by TNT of a 23  i  per cent shareholding in Ansett, to reach the situation of being unable to make any comment. Last Friday TNT issued a statement on its takeover offer. Again . the Government has not since that time been prepared to make any statement about where it stands, and we have been forced to try to bring the Government out into the open and to persuade it to make a statement of policy about where it is going. What is involved in the bid by TNT to take over Ansett is not peanuts. Very large amounts of money are involved both in terms of the shares to be taken over by TNT and in terms of the turnover of these 2 large organisations. I believe that TNT's annual turnover is about $102m, and the annual turnover of ATI, according to its last financial statement, is $187m, of which $132m is in its airline operations, which account for 71 per cent of its total operations. So a large amount of money is involved and I hope that the Government will today be prepared to make some positive statement about where it stands on this important subject. 
We of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party have been talking for some considerable time about the need in Australia for an integrated transport system involving sea, road, rail and air transport. One of the major factors in the Australian price structure today is the cost of transport. It has been suggested in various places that transport costs represent about 25 per cent of our total cost structure. We in the Labor Party believe that an integrated transport system can bring about some reduction in transport costs. We are not prepared to accept the present situation as it appears on the surface to be. We want something more positive done about it. At the present time the question is: Who is to bring about the integration of transport in Australia? Is it to be the Government, through Trans-Australia Airlines in air transport, and through other instrumentalities, such as the Australian National Line in the shipping field? Is it to be the Government through these undertakings, or is the integration to be achieved by the takeover of Ansett by TNT or by the amalgamation of these 2 companies? These are questions to which we would like some answers from the Government. 
Whilst we are talking about takeovers, I can refer to a few interesting incidents to illustrate Ansett's experience in takeovers. After all, both Ansett and TAA have had any amount of experience in takeovers. 1 believe that TNT has been involved in about 15 takeovers in reaching the position in which it stands at the moment, with an annual turnover of about $102m. Ansett on the other hand has been able peacefully to acquire the interests of other companies. It has gone about doing so very methodically and quietly, although Ansett has had some blow-ups. Companies taken over by Ansett include Southern Airlines of Victoria, Australian National Airways and Butler Air Transport Ltd. The former Butler organisation is now operated as Airlines of New South Wales. It is interesting to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  sitting at the table. If I remember rightly, he was involved to some extent in the Butler takeover in 1958. It would be interesting if he were to tell us his experience of what went on behind the scenes in that takeover. But that is beside the point at this stage. 
The interesting point is that at the time of that blow-up there was a very bitter fight between Butler Air Transport and the Ansett organisation. Butler loaded his voting strength by issuing some 80,000 new voting rights to his employees to try to outvote the Ansett group. The Minister for Foreign Affairs may laugh, but it was interesting reading at that time. Ten aircraft were used by Ansett to bring shareholders from Melbourne to Sydney for a vote on the takeover. So when we talk about takeovers and all their ramifications, it must be remembered that both Ansett and TNT have had any amount of experience in this field. The most recent takeover by Ansett was that of MacRobertsonMiller Airline Services. So there are any number of takeovers we can talk about. When Butler and Ansett were involved in their fight Ansett did not ask for Government intervention. Why is he not asking for it now? These are some pf the questions I would like answered by the Government. 
The Government is involved in this takeover and it should be making a statement on the subject. The Government is involved because of its 2-airline system, which still has 5 years to run. I stated 2 weeks ago that the Labor Party was not opposed to a continuation of the 2-airline policy or to a renewal of the present 2- airline policy arrangement when it expires. Whilst we believe that the matter should be left to the incoming parliament for decision, at the same time we believe that the 2-airline policy should be retained so that the participants in the present arrangement know where they are going. Whether the participants under the new 2-airline policy arrangement are to be TNT and TAA or ATI and TAA, we want some statement from the Government as to where we are going. 
The Government is financially involved in the airline operations of Ansett. There are $35m worth of outstanding loans for which the Government has gone guarantor for Ansett for aircraft that have been purchased overseas to put Ansett on an equal footing with TAA. The Government has not only guaranteed the loans; in many cases it has negotiated the loans for Ansett. There is $35m of Australian public money involved in those loans. There is also $25m yet to be borrowed for the acquisition of 4 Boeing 727 - 200 series aircraft by Ansett - 4 of these aircraft are to be purchased by TAA also - in the next couple of years. The Government is also involved to the tune of this amount. The Department of Civil Aviation is involved in the provision of airports, airport facilities and navigational aids, which cost about $70m a year in excess of the revenue earned by DCA. 
I have mentioned the ways in which the Government is involved, so the Government should be putting the public well and truly in the picture by making a statement on the bid by TNT to take over Ansett. We on this side of the House believe that a judicial committee of inquiry should be appointed and that legislation dealing with takeovers should already be in existence. A former Attorney-General, the present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, indicated that there was a need for such legislation, and during his term of office as Attorney-General he said that the Government was prepared to have a look at it and do something positive about it. Legislation should be in existence to deal not only with this possible takeover but with other takeovers that involve the nation as a whole. This is why we are criticising the Government today and trying to get out of it some statement about where it is going. 
The judicial inquiry which we propose should be in a position to determine whether this present takeover bid is in the interests of the Australian transport system. Is it in the interests of the Australian traveller who is using the airline? Is it in the interest of national safety? Will TNT, which is already involved in sea, rail and road operations, which are in very competitive fields, use the guaranteed profits from Ansett's airline operations to subsidise or recompense losses which may be incurred in its other operations in more competitive fields? We want some clear statement from the Government as to where it is going on this matter. The Government should make some statement as to how Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, after paying dividends of 10 per cent for a number of years, suddenly, when this takeover bid was made, could make an announcement out of the blue that it will increase its dividend to IS per cent per annum. What is the reason for it? Howwas this position arrived at? 
We know that within the last 2 years there have been 3 increases in air fares, representing a total increase in excess of 16 per cent. The Government made no comment on the need for that. The airlines claimed that it was necessary, and the next thing we knew was that in a matter of days the increases had been approved. If the workers in the industry want an increase in wages they have to go through a long, expensive court action to get it. The tribunal should also interest itself in the foreign involvement in the shareholding not only of Ansett Transport Industries but also of TNT. That should be the role played by the tribunal in this judicial inquiry. 
I would like to find out what would be the result of the takeover. Would it provide a better service? Would it overcome the present anomaly in airline operations of parallel time-tables? Would the takeover result in offpeak concession fares, which TAA tried to introduce some years ago and which ATI opposed? Would some attempt be made to introduce cheap internal charter fares? After all, Qantas Airways Ltd, which is also Government owned, was one of the biggest obstacles in the airline industry to the introduction of charter fares, and it was not until it was being forced completely out of business that it moved into the field of charter operations. At this stage there is no internal competitor in Australia to force either TAA or Ansett to do something about charter operations. I ask the Minister: Would this takeover result in a better deal for airline passengers? That is the kind of question that the Government should be answering today. The Opposition believes that the tribunal is one of the answers to takeovers and also to the need to improve airline operations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Which Australian ships were docked and repaired overseas in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the (a) tonnage of this ship, (b) owner's name and (c) port in which the ship was docked and repaired in each case. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Between which ports do the (a) 'Bass Trader', (b) 'Sydney Trader*, (c) 'Australian Trader', (d) 'Princess of Tasmania' and (e) Echuca' operate. 
What percentage of the cargo carrying space of these ships was utilised on each voyage during 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What was the value of claims for damage to cargo by shippers on (a) 'Townsville Trader', (b) Brisbane Trader' and (c) 'Sydney Trader' during 1971. 
The purpose of the Navigation Bill 1972 is to amend the Navigation Act 1912-1970 with respect to the tonnage measurement of ships and, to use the term used in the Bill, for other purposes. On behalf of the Opposition, I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House condemns the Government for having failed to amend the Navigation Act to comply with International Labour Organisation and Inter-governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation Conventions, modern shipping practice, and effective safety operations, as promised by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in August 1967, and for failing to introduce a Bill to provide for an Australian Register of Shipping'. 
That amendment will provide us with quite a reasonable basis for discussion. The Bill will not be opposed by the Opposition because we believe that it is an improvement on the existing Navigation Act. The first part of the Bill deals with the minimum age for employment at sea. As that implies, there is a proposal to increase the minimum age for apprentices and young men going to sea from 15 years to 16 years. It also deals with tonnage and provides for the deletion of a most objectionable section of the Act, namely, section 423a. 
I want to deal first of all with that part of the Bill which is concerned with tonnage. Over the years we have seen a great deal of manoeuvring and a great deal of twisting around of regulations and the like by shipping owners who have tried to gain the best possible advantage for their ships in relation to port and harbour dues. When one talks about tonnage, I think the ordinary person would scratch his head and wonder what the heck it is all about. There are many different references to the size of ships. For example, the displacement tonnage is the weight in tons of a ship and her contents at any particular time. Therefore it is variable. The light displacement of a ship is the weight of the ship when it is empty, and it is constant. The loaded displacement is the displacement of the ship loaded to her maximum draught. Dead weight is the difference between light and loaded displacement, that is, it is the weight of the contents of the ship. 
None of these tonnages has any connection with the tonnage mentioned in this Act. In thu context it means 100 cubic feet. Over the years we have seen these various terms and descriptions used for the measurement of the size of ships. Gross tonnage is the internal volume of the ship below decks, plus all closed in space above it, with certain minor exceptions. Net tonnage is the gross tonnage less certain allowances for machinery, machinery space, crew's quarters, storerooms, navigation space and so on. A variation of the rules grew up concerning the determination of tonnage which has little relation to the size of the ship. 
About the middle of the last century a  Mr Moorsen  was instructed by the British Government to prepare rules. He decided that the under deck tonnage should be measured in a manner which is mathematically correct. Some fairly complex mathematics are involved in this. All closed in space above the tonnage decks was to be added to this figure and the total called gross tonnage. From this figure was to be deducted allowances for crew's quarters, engine rooms and so on. Subsequently it was decided that certain closed spaces were to be entirely exempted. Shelter deck spaces were exempted. As time went on these spaces became more and more closed. They were left sufficiently open to be exempted from measurement but this did not contribute to the safety of the ship. It can be seen from this that the terms used for the measurement of tonnages are really complicated and that the terminology which is created for the maritime industry is such that one has great difficulty in following it. 
Over the years several attempts were made to introduce an international tonnage scheme, and this was finally achieved by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation. The new tonnage rules provided for 2 tonnages, the lesser of which was to apply when the vessel was not loaded beyond a certain mark. Under the scheme a ship can have 2 sets of tonnage figures and a tonnage mark on its side. This is where the provisions of the Bill come in. One set of figures applies when the tonnage mark is submerged, and dry cargo spaces between the second and upper decks are included in the ship's tonnage figures. The other set applies when the tonnage mark is not submerged. The dry cargo space is between the second and upper decks, not being included in the ship's tonnage. 
In view of the fact that Australian ships are involved in Japanese trading operations let me say that this legislation is long overdue. The Government should have brought it in at the same time that Australian ships started trading operations with Japan and Japanese ships of similar design - the vehicle deck ships - commenced trading with Australia. As far as other countries are concerned, the United Kingdom signed this agreement in March 1967 and since then over 30 countries have signed it. It was not until Australia entered the eastern searoad service that there was a need for Australia to sign and it was at that time,  some  2 years ago, that the agreement should have been signed to enable Australian ships to trade on similar conditions and be subject to the same harbour dues and fees as Japanese sister ships. At the present time we have 2 ships on the eastern searoad service, the 'Australian Enterprise' and the 'Matthew Flinders'. The Japanese sister ships have been in a favourable position because they have been able to get the concessions which are available to ships of this type, provided that the countries which owned the ships had signed the agreement. For example, in respect of Australian ships trading with Yokohama, Kobe, Nagoya and Yokkaicki from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, my information is that the saving in harbour dues at Nagoya is about $200 a voyage. In Melbourne it is a saving of about $700 a voyage. In fact the Australian ships have paid in harbour dues something like $120,000 a year more than their Japanese counterparts. 
As I said a moment ago, there was a need for this Government to bring in this legislation much earlier. The measurement of tonnage of ships such as the 'Australian Enterprise' and the 'Matthew Flinders' is at present in accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act. Under this Act the Australian ships are classified as 16,600 gross registered tons. Under the new scheme which I have outlined tonight and which is provided for in this legislation by way of an amendment to the Navigation Act these ships will be classified at about 9,300 gross registered tons. Therefore when harbour committees are working on the basis of levying harbour dues and fees based on a ship's tonnage this new classification will represent quite a substantial saving for the ships involved. The 'Alungra' fortunately is trading through the United States. If the Alungra' were on the Japan-Australia run it would similarly be affected, but because the Americans have a system of their own whereby they calculate harbour dues on the basis of the length and draught of the ship and by other complicated methods, it does not matter so much as far as the Alungra' is concerned. At this stage there are in reality 2 ships involved, the 'Australian Enterprise' and the 'Matthew Flin- ders'. From our point of view we support the proposition contained in this legislation insofar as these ships are put in a similar position to their Japanese counterparts. 
Another part of this Bill which the Opposition supports is the clause which repeals section 423a of the principal Act. This section of the Act is objectionable. It deals with Aborigines in Australian Territories. In reality the section provides that Aborigines can be excluded from the provisions of the Act and they can work under conditions different from those which apply to other people such as Europeans, Australians or anyone else to whom the provisions of the Act apply. The repeal of this section of the principal Act is long overdue. In 1928 an order was brought down by the then Governor-General and certain sections of the Act were excluded. Native people or Aboriginal people, which is the term used in the Act, were employed under much inferior conditions than applied to other people. I know that that order was repealed in 1966. The Government is to be congratulated for removing that section from the Act so that at least there is no ambiguity as to whether the provision can or cannot be applied. 
Section 35 of the Act provides a minimum age for apprentices. This Bill provides for an increase in the minimum age from 15 to 16 years. Section 40a is to be amended to increase the minimum age of young men going to sea. I am disappointed that the Government has not taken the opportunity to bring down some substantial amendments to the Navigation Act. I will deal with this matter in detail shortly. As the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has seen fit to refer to the minimum ages of apprentices and young men going to sea I am disappointed that the opportunity was not taken to introduce what I consider would have been a very simple amendment. It would have considerably improved the standard of people going to sea and put apprentices and young men going to sea on conditions similar to those enjoyed by people in other countries. 
Almost every European country, the United States of America and Canada have pre-school introduction courses. They have a school for training young seamen. This was an ideal opportunity for the Government to bring down a substantial amendment along these lines. Such an amendment would have had the unanimous support of all maritime unions. We have a course at the Newcastle technical college of which the Minister is aware. It is called the pre-school instruction course for deck and engine-room boys. It is an excellent course as far as it goes. It is a 6 weeks course of 30 hours a week and it gives basic training to young men going to sea. This should be the start of their training. Dedicated, interested men run the course and lecture. This was an opportunity to expand the course and obtain the ideas of the men involved. We could find out what they think should apply. We could obtain the opinions of the maritime industry and the ship owners. 
I shall throw in a few thoughts as to what I feel should be done in this field. As I said, this pre-sea introduction course lasts for 6 weeks, 30 hours a week. The boys from the course could then go to sea for 12 months as deck boys and engine room boys. Having completed that 12 months introduction to the sea they could then come ashore again and attend a further course for 4 weeks before they are given their ordinary seaman's certificate. At this further course they would be required to do training and undergo an examination. Then the ordinary seaman's certificate would be issued to them by the technical college in Newcastle or wherever it might be. After serving 2 years to obtain their able seaman's certificate they could report to a technical college again for 4 weeks, 5 weeks or 6 weeks. I am not adamant as to the length of the course. This is a matter which the industry should determine and which has to be given serious consideration by the Government. After attending that 4 weeks' course they could then be issued with an able seaman's certificate. This training could also apply to marine cooks and stewards. It would fit men for the profession which they have decided to follow. It would fit them better to understand their employment. Today the maritime industry is paying good wages and employees are enjoying good conditions. It is up to the industry to obtain the type of men necessary to do these jobs. The industry is becoming more technical than it used to be. Brute strength and stupidity is no longer good enough. The industry now requires men with some knowledge of what they are doing - men who can cope with the changes which are taking place in shipping today. 
Let me make one final suggestion on this question. At the present time there does not appear to be any formula for the selection of young men to undertake this 6-weeks course. No academic qualifications are required. The young men do not have to sit for any oral or written tests. I suggest that the Department of Shipping and Transport and the employers and employees engaged in the shipping industry could get together and draw up a formula for selecting young men to undertake this course and a career at sea. I am suggesting not that it should be a highly technical examination of the higher school certificate standard, but that it should be an examination which at least will indicate the capacity which a boy might be able to apply in the occupation which he will follow. I leave those thoughts with the Minister. I hope that they are accepted in the manner in which I have put them forward, namely, as constructive suggestions as to what might be done in the shipping industry. 
I turn to the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. I wish to condemn the Government as strongly as I can - and I know that I have the support of all sections of the maritime industry when I say this - on its failure to bring down substantial amendments to the Navigation Act. An amendment to the Navigation Act was introduced in April 1967. At the time it was debated I was overseas and in my absence the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  handled the Bill on behalf of the Opposition. He and other members of the Parliamentary Labor Party's Transport Committee had a conference with the then Minister for Shipping and Transport, at which they asked that substantial amendments be made to the Navigation Act and suggested what the amendments should be. This is part of what the Minister said in reply to the debate, as reported at page 203 of Hansard of 17th August 1967:  . . i do not propose to reply in detail at this stage. There will be opportunities later when, as i indicated to the honourable member- 
And he was referring to the honourable member for Stirling - 
. we will bring this Act up for review. There are one or two matters, however, that I would like to put before the House. 
Since then 2 amendments have been made to the Navigation Act. This is the third amendment. The first amendment was concerned with the ratification of an international agreement dealing with load lines. The second amendment was introduced as a result of the grounding of the tanker, the Oceanic Grandeur', in Torres Strait to the north of Australia. We were very lucky that great damage was not done to the Australian coastline or to the Great Barrier Reef in that incident. An urgent Bill was introduced into this chamber and we put it through. Parts of the Bill were in handwritten form. The Oppositon co-operated with the Government. We agreed that that legislation should operate for 6 months. The Government brought down an amending Bill 6 months later, and that was put through this House. Other than those 2 Bills, this is the first Bill that has been introduced to amend the Navigation Act since 1967, and let us face the fact that this Bill provides for only a very minor amendment to the Act. The Navigation Act is one of the largest Acts for which the Commonwealth Government is responsible. The Government has bad 5 years in which to do something about the Navigation Act, but it has not done anything of a substantial nature. 
I was fortunate enough to be invited to attend the Australian Transportation Conference which was held on 24th and 25th March 1971.  Mr John  H. Paterson, who was one of the principal speakers at that Conference, was most critical of what the Government had to say about the Navigation Act.  Mr Paterson  is the Managingdirector of Associated Steamships Pty Ltd, and at that time he was  Chairman  of the Australasian Steamship Owners Federation. What he had to say about the Navigation Act must have been enlightening to the Minister, but he took no notice of it. I would like to have incorporated in Hansard all that  Mr Paterson  had to say, but I will have to restrict myself to reading out a couple of the paragraphs of his speech. He said: 
Because of the dangers and risks associated with the maritime industry in years gone by, governments have throughout the world gradually come to exercise a regulatory function to a degree unknown in any other industry. Within the terms of appropriate legislation governmental control seeks to set broad parameters within which a country's shipping business is to be conducted having regard to the safely and welfare of its participants. 
This is the part I want to emphasise: 
Consequently in order to have an efficient shipping industry there is a need for legislation to be constantly revised and updated to keep in step with the modern developments in the industry which it seeks to govern. 
This unfortunately has not been the case with the Commonwealth Navigation Act. Although various sections have been revised and added to the Act in an attempt to bring it up to date since it was first introduced in 1912, the approach has been piecemeal. 
That is the real situation - it has been piecemeal. In a period of 5 years there has been one major amendment and 2 minor amendments but in reality the real principle of the Act has not been tackled. I hope that the Government will do something positive about it in the very near future. 
The other point I referred to in my amendment relates to a register of Australian shipping. This is important. At this very moment the Department of Shipping and Transport has a problem, I believe, because we do not have a register of Australian shipping. I do not have time to go through the whole ramifications of what is meant by a register of Australian shipping but I wish I had. I want to refer to a couple of questions which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has placed on the notice paper repeatedly, directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As far back as 2nd September 1970 the then Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  was asked this question by the Leader of the Opposition: 
What stage has been reached in the plans to establish an Australian shipping register? 
The Minister's reply was: 
In my answer to a similar question asked by the honourable member last year,- 
That would be 1969- 
I indicated that legal advice had been obtained on this matter and consideration was being given to the means through which a complete and legally effective system of registration of Australian ships could be achieved under Australian law. The legal advice then referred to had indicated some difficulties in the way of implementing the complete scheme that I had in mind. The further consideration that was given to the matter has caused me to seek additional legal advice, which I  am  now awaiting. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has been putting similar questions on the notice paper. On 21st March this year he received this reply from the Minister for Shipping and Transport who is now sitting at the table: 
Substantial further progress has been made towards the preparation of the complex new legislation that will be necessary for the establishment of an Australian shipping register. At the present time I am not in a position to make an announcement about the introduction of the necessary bill. 
The Government has been playing around with this Bill for some considerable time. Every Commonwealth country but Australia has its own shipping Act. Why cannot the Government take a lead from the other Commonwealth countries which have their own shipping Act and bring down legislation to suit the requirements of the Australian shipping industry? 
As I mentioned earlier, I believe the Government has a problem at present with a ship called the 'Esso Macquarie' which, as the names implies, is an Esso tanker. It is a British registered ship. The owner company is resident in the Bahamas and the Government is unable to prosecute the owners. It is unable to issue a summons on the owner because the owner is overseas. This ship entered the Port of Newcastle last year seriously overloaded yet the Government cannot prosecute the owner. A summons will be served on the captain and he will be prosecuted. The court, depending on which judge deals with the matter, probably will fine the captain $500 or $1,000, which no doubt the company will pay. I hope it will pay it because the matter is its responsibility. If the owning company were resident in Australia, judging by the fines imposed in other countries it would bs fined about $25,000. As the law stands at the moment the owner cannot be prosecuted. This is because this Government will not take the necessary action to introduce legislation to set up an Australian register of shipping. Instead it chooses to leave the matter as it is at the present time under the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act. The Government should act quickly to introduce the necessary legislation. 
Another matter which concerns me is the way in which the Government is interpreting section 286 of the Act, which deals with coastal trading, and the way that Australian ships are going overseas for docking and repair. At this point 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which appears at page 76 of the Australian Shipping and Shipbuilding report 1971. It relates to Australian dry docks. 
I normally do, but the Minister was not in the House earlier. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="077131197204202_94_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House, I also ask leave to incorporate in Hansard a question on notice and the answer which was supplied to me on 6th April. It relates to the number of Australian ships that were docked and repaired overseas in the last 5 years. 
I thank the Minister and the House. I bring these matters to the attention of honourable members to indicate the great need for the Government to do something about providing increased docking capacity in Australia. The State Dockyard in Newcastle has been trying for some considerable time to get an assurance from the Government that money will be made available to build a graving dock as part of the shipbuilding layout there. At present a 22,000 ton tanker, the 'Cellana', owned by the Shell Co. of Australia, is the subject of disputation. The company has been trying to force the maritime unions to take this ship to Singapore for a substantial conversion job. Additions are to be made to its pump room which will cost in excess of $250,000. It will be necessary to sand blast and shot blast the tanks of the tanker to convert it into a products carrier. This will  cost from $350,000 to $400,000 and will provide employme for between 125 and 150 men for a period of about 6 to 7 weeks. The time involved could be longer or slightly less but it is a substantial job. At this time large, numbers of unskilled men are unemployed in Sydney and Newcastle and this is work to which they would be ideally suited. The Shell Co. has taken the Maritime Services Guild to court on a number of occasions trying to force the Guild to lift the ban. It was only this week that  Mr Justice  Franki adjourned the case and did not issue an order against the Maritime Services Guild. 
The proposed action to have this work done overseas is typical of the general situation. If honourable members study the list of names which I have had incorporated in Hansard they will see the number of ships which have gone overseas in recent years. Of a total of 21 ships, 19 could have been docked and repaired in Australian docks and at Australian ship yards, but this work is being sent overseas. These ships are earning their money in the Australian coastal trade. Some are earning money in the Australian overseas trade. But they are dependent on Australia for their business and their owners should be forced by the Government, and by the Minister for Shipping and Transport, not only to build their ships in Australia but also to have them docked and repaired here. 
The Government has been sitting on a Cabinet sub-committee report on docks in Australia. This report has been in the possession of Cabinet for, I believe, almost 12 months and it is time it was brought before the Parliament, a decision made, on where docks are to be built and what Commonwealth assistance will be forthcoming to assist the States in the building of those docks. It is up to the Government to do something about this situation. It is up to the Government to issue a direction to ship owners like the Shell Co. that where you earn your money, spend your money'. This is what the Government should be doing in respect of the 'Cellana'. I was pleased to see that  Mr Justice  Franki did not proceed with that hearing. 
Another matter that is covered by section 286 of the Act concerns the number of ships which are coming onto the Australian coast. I do not have time to deal with all of them but a number of Australian ships are tiedand I deal specifically with 3 of the the 'Kembla' of 13,700 dead weighttons, the 'Mount Kiera' of 13,710 dead weight tons owned by the Australian National Line and the Wollongong" of 16,520 dead weight tons owned by Associated Steamships Pty Ltd. These 3 ships are tied up. Yet this Government gave the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd permission to bring to Australia the 'Iron Somersby', 105,500 tons dead weight, which I am pleased to say is now tied up. It is flying the British flag; it is not on the Australian register. It was brought to Australia on a 5-year charter. The Government has not given any indication of the conditions of the charter. Is that company going to build another ship in the 5 years that the 'Iron Somersby' is here on charter? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
 The Professional Radio Employees Institute has an arrangement whereby ships in excess of 1,600 tons will always have a radio operator on board. We know that under the tonnage mark scheme the tonnage of a ship can be reduced to a figure that is about 40 per cent less than the gross registered tonnage. The Institute is concerned about this new legislation. I thinkI know the answer to their query, and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  also would know, but I would like him to confirm that the Institute's concern is unfounded and that under the tonnage mark scheme ships with a gross registered weight of 1,600 tons or over will still carry a radio operator in accordance with the Navigation (Radio) Regulations. Regulation 4(1.) of the Navigation (Radio) Regulations makes reference to various types of ships. A class I ship means a passenger ship carrying or authorised to carry more than 250 passengers. A class II (a) ship means a passenger ship that is not a class I ship. A class II (b) ship means a cargo ship of not less than 1,600 tons. Regulation 4 (3.) provides that a reference to the tonnage of a ship shall be read as a reference to the gross registered tonnage of the ship. On behalf of the Institute I ask the Minister for an assurance that the tonnage mark scheme will not in any way interfere with the present arrangement between the Department of Shipping and Transport, the shipping companies and the Institute. If the Minister can give me that assurance I will be quite happy. 
I wish to refer to a statement made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on the 19th of this month at the opening of the new Marine Operations 
Centre in Canberra. A statement released by the Minister on 19th April read: 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said today he was 'intent on finding the means of having all seafarers, including yachtsmen and fishermen, contribute to the cost' of search and rescue operations. 
This was because it seemed 'less than equitable that the community as a whole should pay for search and rescue actions, especially those which result from the less than responsible approach taken by some adventurers'. 
On 2nd October last year a ketch by the name of 'One and AH' foundered some miles ofl the Australian coast. In reply to a question which I asked the then Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Hunt),  he informed me that the cost of the search was something in excess of $200,000. At that time I was very critical of the fact that this vessel was allowed to go to sea. Not only was I critical, but the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was too, and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  asked a question on the subject. But the honourable member for Griffith and I in particular were critical of the fact that this ketch was allowed to go to sea in the condition it was in. On 12th October I asked the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport a question and it and the reply are reported on page 2146 of Hansard. I do not want to quote all the reply. In the latter part of the Minister's reply he said: 1 cannot give any indication at this stage of whether there will be a marine inquiry. Detailed discussions are taking place at present, as I said previously, but I want to make this point clear: At a meeting of the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Transport on 24th September the Ministers agreed that there are several areas in which co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States could lead to more efficient marine administration. Such an area is the safety of private yachts and pleasure craft. It is under current consideration. 
That question was answered on 12th October 1971. Yet here we are today, 26th April 1972, and to the best of my knowledge no statement has been made by the Minister or his Department about what happened to that marine inquiry that was being conducted by the Department into the foundering of the 'One and All'. The people involved in this incident sold the story to the newspapers. I do not know what they got out of it, but I do know' from the Minis ter's statement that the search cost the public purse in the vicinity of $200,000. I agree with what the Minister said at the opening of the Marine Operations Centre, namely, that something positive has to be done about small craft today. 
Under the Navigation Act and under load line legislation which was introduced here in 1968 or thereabouts, pleasure craft are specifically excluded. I believe, and on that occasion I said that pleasure craft should not be excluded from the provisions of the Act because it is in this field that many people are losing their lives today. People sometimes have to be protected from themselves. Let us look at some of the information that is available. The Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport reported 266 incidents in 1970, of which 21 were considered to be major incidents. In New South Wales in 1970-71 there were 39,007 boats registered which were capable of a speed of more than 10 knots and which were less than 65 feet in length. There were 67,704 licences issued. In New South Wales in the same year there were 144 accidents - 110 on inside waters and 34 in the open sea. On inside waters there were 59 injuries and 15 fatalities; at sea there were 12 injuries and 8 fatalities. This makes a total of 144 accidents, 71 injuries and 23 deaths. For the other States it is a little difficult to get information; but Western Australia does an excellent job in the preparation of its statistics. However, I have not time to go through all of them. The interesting figures which the Western Australian statistics disclose are that on the ocean there were 55 accidents and 9 deaths and on rivers and lakes there were 7 accidents and 2 deaths. So boating results in quite a number of fatalities. 
When the number of vessels registered is compared with the number of motor cars registered there is probably something like the same proportion of people injured and killed in boating accidents as in motor car accidents. So I go along with what the Minister has said. Unfortunately, however, the position is that if I want to hold a licence to drive a boat in excess of 10 knots all I have to do is pass an oral examination based on the information in a book called Boating in New South Wales'. Having done that, I can take my boat to New Zealand if 1 am silly enough, or I can go even to England. Some people would probably think that would be a good place for me to go. The fact is that if 1 was silly enough to want to take a boat to New Zealand I could do so. 
I would probably get a good cheerio call as I was leaving. To do this 1 would not need to have any knowledge of navigation or to know a thing about the boat. I need only pass this oral examination, which is not a difficult examination, and away I could go. I could get on to the open sea, where I could get into a bit of trouble. It could cost John Citizen or John Taxpayer, as it did in the case of the 'One and AH', a couple of hundred thousand dollars to find me. This is not good enough. People who are silly enough to go to sea like that have to be protected from themselves, and so do the men who have to go and look for them have to be protected. People get into trouble mostly in inclement weather, when there are storms and the like. In Queensland recently there was a fatality at the height of a cyclone. I do not want to dwell on that, but there people went to sea in a cyclone. We all know from having flown in aircraft that it is not very pleasant upstairs when there is bad weather. One of these days one of the searchers could lose his life and this matter will blow up again. I support in principle what I think the Minister is trying to do. 
I hope there will be a dual system of licences. One should be for people who want to use boats in estuaries, rivers and lakes where they need just the basic knowledge of to whom they give way, what they have to do when approaching or overtaking another vessel and what they have to do when people are fishing, swimming or skiing. For a boat that goes to sea some basic principles should be laid down and the person responsible for the boat should be required to hold a licence. To gain a licence I suggest that the person should be required to undergo an examination to test whether he has a simple knowledge of meteorology and whether he understands the reading of a barometer and how clouds form so that if he sees certain clouds form he cay say: 'It is time I was not here. It is time I got into sheltered waters'. It may be necessary to insist that he have some basic knowledge of navigation and probably even some mechanical knowledge of the motor that is driving the boat he has because so many marine accidents occur when the engine in a boat breaks down. Other requirements should be that the boat has on board a 2-way radio, flares and floats and some form of life jackets to make sure that if the person gets into trouble at least he has the means of getting out of it. The boat should be fitted with at least the safety equipment that is thought necessary by people in the industry who know what should be on board. If a person is going to sea he should prepare a voyage plan showing where he has in mind going, whether, for instance, he is going to fish at a particular point and then return to port. He can give a message to the representatives of the Maritime Services Board or its counterpart in the various States so that the people who are running the country will know where he is. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to ' commend the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and to indicate that the Opposition supports the proposal to set up a Select Committee on Road Safety. I think that this could be truly classified as a joint Government-Opposition venture because only  2  weeks ago today I approached the Minister and, on behalf of the Opposition, proposed that action should be taken in this direction. To his credit, the Minister has been able to take up the matter from our meeting of  2  weeks ago, convince Cabinet as to the desirability of setting up this Select Committee and move a motion this afternoon for the setting up of the Committee. 
Having had previous experience on a parliamentary select committee, namely, the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, I think that this question of road safety can, should and will be dealt with in a completely nonpolitical atmosphere. I know that on the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise - and I see that the  Chairman  and other members of that Committee are in the chamber at the present time - we attempted to deal in an impartial manner with an important subject concerning so many thousands of people. I know that on many occasions when members of political parties addressed the Committee and tried to gain some political capital out of it, invariably a member of that person's own party was the one who dealt most severely with that person in the inquiry. I have no doubt that the same atmosphere will prevail when the Select Committee on Road Safety meets to take evidence and to inquire into this important subject. I have found that this happens with nearly all parliamentary committees. 
There is no doubt that there is a great need for the Commonwealth to take positive steps to co-ordinate the activities of the States in the field of road safety. At the present time the States are setting up their own research sections. There is a great need to co-ordinate all of this information and, as the Commonwealth is looked upon as the Government which has the control of the finances of this country, the Commonwealth can play an important role in this area. I honestly believe that we would have uniformity in many traffic regulations, but for the fact that the cost would have to be borne by the States. The Commonwealth has a responsibility in this field of road safety and it should be doing something positive about it. I hope that this inquiry will bring out all the facts. 
Thanks to the invitation of the Minister, I was able to attend all the working sessions of the national road safety symposium to which the Minister referred in his speech. It was obvious to me at that time that the questions which were of paramount importance to all the experts at that symposium - and there were some 160 of them - was: 'Are we wasting our lime here? What is the Parliament going to do about it? What are the politicians going to do about it?' These were the questions that were asked consistently, both privately and in private sessions. In fact, on a number of occasions the questions were asked in open session. I think that the Minister was present on one occasion when this was asked, and I do not think that it was pushed any further because of respect for him. But obviously the question which was troubling all the men and women, who were experts in their own fields, was: Were they wasting their time in attending that 3-day symposium? I am satisfied, now that the Government has proposed action to which the Opposition has pledged its support, that they were not wasting their time and that something constructive will come out of the whole of it. There is no doubt that road accidents in Australia are costing the lives of about 4,000 men, women and children and are maiming and injuring up to 80,000 people each year. One cannot calculate the actual cost to Australia. It may be costing anything from $400m to $500m annually. This represents a huge charge against the national health fund, and against our social service funds in the form of sickness benefits and invalid pensions. So this is something that does concern the Government. 
As I said in my opening remarks, I commend the Minister for having brought this matter before the Parliament so quickly after our discussion a fortnight ago. I give the motion my wholehearted support and trust that the committee to be appointed will bring down recommendations that are acceptable to the Parliament. 

 Mr BUCHANAN (McMillan) (2.26)- I want to make only short comment on this matter. Appointments of select committees have not been frequent enough in this House mainly, I think, because such committees continue for too long. It takes a select committee far too long to examine the wide field that it is charged to examine. I point out that in view of the present state of this particular session of the Parliament the select committee that will be appointed will be dissolved when the Parliament concludes. The committee can make an interim report recommending that another select committee be appointed by the next Parliament, but that is about all a select committee in this situation is able to do. I can see no reason why the Parliament should not appoint a time when the select committee will report to the Parliament. In fact, this is a requirement of the Standing Orders. 
If this were done, it would be in the interests of the members appointed to that committee. The members would pay much more attention to the inquiry. They would devote more time to it and would be prepared to attend the committee's meetings until the inquiry was completed instead of dragging it out by their reluctance to attend meetings because they want to be away electioneering. If honourable members want to electioneer, they should not be appointed to committees. I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to take note of what I have said. I ask those who are responsible for appointing any future select committee to note even more particularly that it would be in the best interests of the Parliament to set a date on which the select committee should report to the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport,  upon notice: 
Which motor cars (a) manufactured in Australia, and (b) imported into Australia can withstand a (i) front end and (ii) rear end ,umber/barrier t test at (A) 2.5 m.p.h. (B) 5 m.p.h. (C) 10 m.p.h. (D) 15 m.p.h. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has airspace over (a) Bankstown and (b) Moorabbin general aviation airports reached saturation point particularly at weekends. 
Are operations at weekends placing a major strain on existing facilities. 
If the position is as stated, what plans has the Department to cope with this dangerous situation. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement on the appointment of members to this Committee. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, the Opposition welcomes the 
Government's decision to set up this Committee and to appoint members to it. But one aspect that does concern me is the appointment of the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  as  Chairman.  He already holds the position of  Chairman  of a parliamentary select committee investigating wildlife. He is also a member of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, he is the Government Whip, and he was appointed by the Government to represent it at an environment conference overseas. What I am wondering is whether the Government is sincere about this Select Committee on Road Safety, which has the complete and maximum support of the Opposition. The Committee was appointed after negotiations between the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and myself; I had approached him and asked him to set up such a committee. I want it clearly understood that this is not a personal attack on the honourable member for Henty. 
That is not true. What concerns me is whether a man who holds  4  positions will be able to carry out the responsible position of Chairman of the Road Safety Committee. How can he be Chairman of  2  select committees, one already doing a job and the other appointed to do a job, a member of the Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which meets at least once a week and sometimes twice a week, as well as holding the responsible position of Government Whip? As I have said, this is not a personal attack on the honourable member, but I desire to make sure that the Committee, which has just been appointed, will be able to function and will not be hamstrung and frustrated because of other responsibilities held by the  Chairman  of the Committee. 
The  chairman  is the crux of committees. He is the one who is responsible for making sure that the business is brought forward to the committee. I am speaking with some little experience of committees. I have already been a member of a select committee of this Parliament. I know what the responsibilities of a  chairman  entail. I question very strongly whether the honourable member will be in a position to carry out the functions of  Chairman  of the Road 
Safety Committee. Quite frankly, I welcome him to the Committee because of his interest in road safety. The point is whether the honourable member can carry out his responsibilities to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, The House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory as well as his responsibilities as chief Government Whip and go overseas as the Prime Minister's representative to an environment conference in Vienna in the near future. 
I hope that you are right and I hope that he is right. 

 Mr FOX (Henty!- I ask for leave to make a statement. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Parliamentary select committee should be appointed to investigate and report to the Parliament on the closing down of particular sections of industry and consequent loss of employment'. 
The necessity to move the amendment arises from the growing numbers of unemployed in non-metropolitan centres throughout Australia. Most of the capital cities I can be more positive than that and say all capital cities at presentare expanding at a much greater rate than any of the large rural centres. I believe that position has been brought about by overcentralisation through the introduction of container cargo shipping and new marketing techniques. At one time warehouses and the like were established in country centres and firms did all their trading with the retailers in those centres. Industries were set up in the country and in large non-metropolitan centres such as Wollongong and Newcastle. 
Because of the new technique that has been evolved by industry and commerce there has been a contraction to the capital cities. I propose to deal in particular with my own district, the Hunter Valley district as a whole, and to show just what is happening there. I will explain what a terrible effect the change is having on employment and development in that region. The same can be said about almost every port in Australia. The situation at Newcastle can be compared with that at almost every other Australian port. In Western Australia the contraction of employment has affected Albany, as it has affected Portland in Victoria. The ports of Queensland and South Australia have been similarly affected. I do not want to deal in detail with that aspect at this stage because I want to leave it to other honourable members who will be speaking in this debate. 
The numbers of unemployed in the Newcastle district at present are causing great concern. 1 have been keeping records of the number of people in receipt of unemployment benefits and the numbers of unfilled vacancies from 1957, based on the monthly statistics issued by the Department of Labour and National Service. These figures show that at present the numbers unemployed in Newcastle are higher than they have been since 1962. In April 1972 a total of 3,694 persons were unemployed in the Newcastle district. The highest previous figure was 4,246 in 1962. In 1963 the number of unemployed was 4,487. 
The worst feature is that at present there are 137 unfilled vacancies for males and the number of registered unemployed is 2,512. There are 115 unfilled vacancies for females out of a total number of 1,182 registered unemployed. To my knowledge the number of unfilled vacancies is the lowest since 1957 and the position at Newcastle is much worse than at any other centre in New South Wales. 1 refer honourable members to the publication in April 1972 by the Department of Labour and National Service setting out the employment situation. The facts set out on page 6 bear out the statements I have just made. The publication shows that in Australia for every 4 males registered for unemployment benefits there is one vacancy. In Newcastle there is one vacancy for every 18 males registered for unemployment benefits. In New South Wales there is one vacancy for every 2 persons registered as unemployed. In Newcastle there is one vacancy for every 10 persons registered as unemployed. The figures clearly illustrate that in Newcastle there is a major problem which requires some action by this Government, and also by the New South Wales Government. We cannot do anything about a State government, but at least in this place I can move the motion I have moved, and the Government can accept it and do something positive about it. 
The preliminary figures I have cited to honourable members show quite clearly that Newcastle is in a serious position. The employment position there is aggravated and will be much more aggravated by the end of the year as is shown by a statement made by the Brownbuilt Industries Division of John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. I have here a cutting from the 27th April edition of the 'Newcastle Morning Herald*. It shows that the company proposes to lay off 600 men out of a total employment force of 1,080. The 600 men will all be displaced between July and December of this year. 1 am particularly alarmed because of the way that a question asked by my colleague from Newcastle, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths),  was answered by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister did not answer the points raised in the question. He did not attempt to tackle the problem. He was asked a genuine question by the honourable member for Shortland and, as usual, the Minister tried to bring in irrelevant matters. In his answer he said that one of the basic factors causing the company to report reduced profitability for the past year was the very high level of industrial unrest which it has been suffering. 
Quite frankly, what the Minister said is all bunkum and is typical of the irresponsible statements for which he is becoming renowned in this place. It is also typical of the provocative statements that the honourable gentleman makes on industrial matters. The company issued a Press statement in February which does not contain one reference to industrial trouble as the reason why it is laying off 600 of its men and closing down sections of its business. I do not have time to read all the statement but I would be happy to do so. The company stated that diversification into new activities - that is into engineering - had not yielded a satisfactory return as the rural market, on which there was heavy dependence, had seriously declined. In the enginering section the volume of profitable business available was falling and the company stated that therefore it was unable to continue those operations. If I had the time I would love to read the rest of the statement in order to show that the Minister for Labour and National Service is irresponsible in the statements he makes to this Parliament. The reason he gave for the closure of sections of the business is not borne out by the facts. I had discussions with trade unionists and learned that in fact this company has had less industrial trouble than other companies in the heavy engineering industry in Newcastle have bad. 
Newcastle has been renowned for many years as a centre of steel manufacture. A survey that was conducted in 1961 disclosed that 70 per cent of the work force in manufacturing industries in Newcastle were employed in what was classified as class 4 of manufacturing, or manufacturing metals. In 1968 thai figure had declined to 69 per cent whilst at the same time, Australia wide, the work force in that same class 4 had increased from 44 per cent to 47 per cent and in New South Wales it had increased from 48 per cent to 50 per cent. So Newcastle is being very badly affected by the contraction and the withdrawal of industry from Newcastle and related areas into the capital cities. I have here a list of 32 major companies in Newcastle which have reduced their employment level between 1968 and 1972. I have another list which shows that for the same period 16 industries have completely closed down and finished their activities in the Newcastle district. They have either gone to Sydney or just gone out of existence. No centre, irrespective of how large it is, even if it is a city of the size of Newcastle, can stand that type of situation. 
The same thing is applying on the waterfront and in the wool industry. I have figures here which disclose that, for example, since the introduction of containerisation and the development of the Yennora wool handling centre in Sydney, there has been a reduction of employment in the waterfront industry in Newcastle. Twenty years ago between 1,500 and 1,600 men were employed on the handling of general cargo and coal in the port of Newcastle. 
As from Sunday of this week the port quota will have declined to 372. Honourable members can work that out. In 22 years, there has been a decline in employment on the waterfront from between 1,500 and 1,600 to 372. That 372 includes both coal and general cargo. This reduction has been brought about as a result of containerisation and the opening of Yennora. The same thing can be said about the wool industry. To give the real picture I have some photostat copies of a table which I ask to have incorporated in Hansard. These tables dislose quite clearly the effects of containerisation and the opening of the Yennora wool handling depot in Sydney. 
I support my 2 colleagues who have already spoken to this motion and I make a strong appeal to the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  to reconsider the Government's decision to dispense today with the Grievance Day debate. The backbench members of this Parliament are entitled to an opportunity to debate political matters which concern them and their electorates. If honourable members were to examine -matters which have been brought forward over the years on Grievance Day they would see that there have been very few occasions on which members have brought forward trivial matters. As far as that member and his electorate are concerned the matter is one of importance. 
Grievance Day is one of the few opportunities that the backbench member has in this Parliament to speak on a subject concerning him and his electorate. For too long this Parliament has been dictated to by the hierarchy called Cabinet, comprising about 9 Ministers. Cabinet dictates not only to the Parliament as to what it should debate and what decisions it will make but also to Government members. All that the Government members can do when these matters are brought before party meetings is to express some form of discontent and disagreement with what the hierarchy is doing. In the Labor Party in opposition decisions made by our executive must be brought forward to run the gauntlet of Caucus and consistently and regularly proposals are defeated, amended or changed in some way as required by Caucus. The same procedure would prevail with the Labor Party in Government. Caucus has power to do that. 
I have been told by older members of our Party that in the days of the Chifley Government a Budget was defeated in Caucus. The Treasurer brought the Budget to the Caucus meeting, and as was the procedure, the doors were closed and no one could leave Caucus until members came from there to the Parliament. On this occasion caucus rejected the Budget and a hastily called meeting of the Ministry, all of whom were members of Cabinet, considered the matter. Caucus was assured that if the Budget were approved then the amendments required by caucus would be put into operation early in the following year. In government, the ordinary member of the Labor Party has the opportunity to have more to say in the running of affairs than have members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party. The Liberal-Country Party coalition is under the control of a dictatorship. It is important that on Grievance Day backbench members be given the opportunity to speak. On the business paper are 11 undebated General Business items of which members have given notice. They will not be debated in the life of this Parliament. The orders of the day include 18 items partially debated but never brought to a vote. 
I ask the Leader of the House when, where and how backbenchers in this Parliament can get an opportunity to bring forward their views on matters not covered by legislation? Grievance Day offers an opportunity for those members to bring these matters before the Parliament. The Government must stop diseregarding the view of the Parliament The Government must become aware that the Parliament is made up of men of equal status. All members are elected as representatives of their particular electorates. Members become Ministers because their Party happens to have the greatest representation at a particular time. Being apopinted Minister does not make a member God.  lt  makes him a leader of a particular section of government. Every member of this House is equal. In a division the tellers count each member only once. They do not count Ministers twice. Unfortunately Ministers think they are part of God's kingdom in this place. So far as I am concerned the more opportunities backbenchers get to air their views the better. 
On the Opposition benches 59 members are eligible to ask questions but on the Government side of the House only 42 members are eligible to ask questions because Ministers do not ask questions. A Government supporter has the opportunity to ask more questions than an Opposition member. The Government should not restrict members in bringing forward important business. Another anomaly that has crept into the workings of the Parliament is the length of time members must wait for  a  reply from Ministers to letters. It is nothing for members to wait 2 or even 3 months before receiving a reply to a simple request. Replies that could be given in a matter of an hour if a Minister took the trouble to do so are sometimes delayed for months. Members never receive a reply to correspondence within a month and on many occasions it is 2 or even 3 months before their correspondence is answered. 
I cannot agree with that. They acknowledge letters in a matter of a week but to get a reply to a simple matter takes 2 or 3 months. My secretary is going through the files and pulling out correspondence to Ministers - 1 write many such letters every week - to ascertain the delays that are occurring by the inefficiency of Ministers in this Government in replying to simple correspondence from members who are seeking information. Recently I wrote a letter to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  regarding a young fellow who had been refused a university scholarship. It took the Minister 3 months to give reasons why that young man had not gained a scholarship. 
I know I may have got a little away from the matter before the House but occasionally one has to step off the straight and narrow to make one's point. These are the reasons why members should be given the opportunity to speak on Grievance Day and why Ministers should be available to answer criticism levelled at them or their departments. With regard to the adjournment at night, on Tuesday night there is no adjournment debate and if the House sits late on Wednesday and Thursday nights again there is no adjournment debate. 
That is so. There should be unlimited debate on these occasions to give members the opportunity to bring important matters before the House. Broadcasting should not be concluded as soon as the motion That the House do now adjourn' is moved. Let the broadcasting continue so that those people who are interested may listen to the adjournment debate. Many important topics are brought forward for discussion on the adjournment. Most importantly the Ministers should stay here and answer criticism levelled at them by members from both sides of the House. The Ministers should be here instead of slinking off home to bed, or wherever they go at that time of night. I urge the Leader of the House to reconsider the Government's decision to cancel Grievance Day today. The Government should not reduce the number of opportunities that members get to bring forward matters affecting their electorate. Grievance Day occurs only every second week; on alternate Thursdays General Business which never comes to a vote is dealt with. I ask the Minister to reconsider the decision and give the backbench members a fair go. 
1 wish to bring forward a matter which I consider to be of importance. It concerns the steel industry in Australia. I refer to a cutting from the 'Newcastle Morning Herald', which states: 
Three leading Japanese steel mills making large.calibre pipes are jointly negotiating with Australian Gas Light Company for the sale of about 120,000 tons of gas pipes. 
The article went on to state: 
The gas pipes would bc med for a large portion of a gas pipeline about 536 miles long from a South Australian gas field to Sydney. 
This concerns me because at present in Australia we have a substantial number of men who are unemployed. The number of adult males at present unemployed is 43,912. The number of junior males is 17,327. The total number of unemployed is 61,239. In the Newcastle district unemployment registry area which includes my electorate and the adjoining areas of Maitland and Cessnock there are 1,499 adult males and 1,015 junior males unemployed. This means that a total of 2,514 men are unemployed in the Newcastle district. 
As I explained to honourable members yesterday, the ratio of unfilled vacancies to registered unemployed in Newcastle is higher than in any other city in Australia. I have just read to honourable members an article which states that it is the intention of the Australian Gas Light Company to import into Australia 120,000 tons of steel pipes. This means that 120,000 tons of steel plates which should be rolled by the Australian steel industry will not be rolled by the Australian industry. If this work were carried out by the Australian steel industry employment would be provided for many men in the steel industry. We had a situation in the Newcastle district only just before Christmas in which a considerable number of men were laid off by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The same thing happened in the Wollongong and Port Kembla area. In fact, men were laid off in the 4 plants operated by BHP throughout Australia. 
What causes me great concern is that this Government will permit the Australian Gas Light Company to import 120,000 tons of steel pipes which are made out of steel plates. Not only the Government but also the Australian Gas Light Company is to blame. I understand that at the moment that company is dithering in regard to what it wants. It is not prepared to make a firm decision as to the size and quantity of pipes that it requires. 
If it would do so the Australian pipemaking industry could get on with the job and provide the pipes that are required to carry this gas from South Australia to New South Wales. Instead of doing this, the company is holding off, deliberately refraining from making a decision, so that when the time arrives for the work to be carried out it will be able to say that Australian industry is not in a position to fill the order. It is common knowledge in the industry today that only about one-third of the pipes required to carry the gas from South Australia to New South Wales will be provided by Australian industry. The filling of this order by Australian industry would provide employment for hundreds of men throughout Australia. I rang the office of the Minister for Trade and Industery  (Mr Anthony)  early this evening to try to let him know that I would speak on this subject. I hope that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is sitting at the table, will bring what I am saying tonight to the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Government should make a clear and positive statement to the Australian Gas Light Company that in no circumstances will it be permitted to import the steel pipes necessary to carry the gas from South Australia to New South Wales. 
As I have said, the company will come up with the excuse that Australian industry cannot supply the pipes that are required. But its inability to do so is because the Gas Light Company is not prepared to make a decision. 1 should like to draw the attention of the Minister to figures contained in a Department of Trade and Industry publication which is received monthly by those of us who are interested in it. As at 30th June 1970, the value of imports of iron and steel was $95,286,000. By 30th June 1971 the value of imports had climbed to $138,576,000. In fact, for the first 8 months of the present financial year, notwithstanding that a great number of men and women have been unemployed in this country, there has been a greater inflow of iron and steel than there was in the comparable 8 month period in 1971. As at February 1971, the value of imports of iron and steel was$86.687.000. For the same 8 month period of this year, the figure was $97,465,000. 
So, honourable members can see from those figures that there is still a substantial amount of steel being imported into this country and, in fact, the import figure for this year is higher than that for the previous year. The figures concerning exports are important also and should be noted. For the first 7 months of the 1970-71 financial year, Australia exported steel to a value of $58,744,000 and, for the same period in the 1971-72 financial year, the figure was $58,298,000. So, the position is that our imports are way up and our exports are below what they were for the same period last year. Yet the Government is going to permit the Australian Gas Light Company, which is a wealthy company making very substantial profits, the luxury of importing 120,000 tons of steel pipes which will utilise in excess of 120,000 tons of steel plates. If the work were carried out here its manufacture would provide employment for Australian men in the steel fabricating and pipe-making industry in Australia. 
I ask the Government to do something positive about this matter and to give the company a clear indication that it can dither around as long as it likes but that it will not be permitted to import the pipes, the supply of which the company is negotiating with various Japanese steel companies. This is an important matter on which the Government must take a positive stand. I hope that the Minister for Defence will take my complaint to the Minister for Trade and Industry. If I could, I would like to have a statement from the Minister for Trade and Industry next week indicating what will be the Government's attitude on this matter. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Did State Ministers for Transport, at a meeting held in Melbourne on 12th May, reverse a previous decision of not requiring Commonwealth financial aid for the development of ports? Now that State governments want Commonwealth aid for port development has the Government any plans for immediate financial assistance? The Minister will recall that in Newcastle on 13th May I introduced to him a delegation which asked the Minister, amongst other things, to make available sufficient funds so that the port could be deepened to cater for larger and more modern ships. Having in mind the serious unemployment position in the Newcastle district, aggravated by the withdrawal and closure of many established industries, has the Government any plans for immediate financial assistance for the deepening of the port of Newcastle? 
The Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1972 relates to the provision ofcertain equipment for a domestic airline. The Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1972 seeks the approval of the Parliament for borrowing by the Commonwealth to assist the Australian National Airlines Commission to purchase aircraft and related equipment. 
The Airline Equipment Bill seeks authority for the Commonwealth to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to the amount of $25m. The other Bill seeks the approval of borrowings by the Commonwealth to assist the Commission in purchasing aircraft at a cost of $28. 5m. In each case 4 Boeing 727-200 series aircraft will be purchased at a total cost to each airline of $35,600,000. The Opposition proposes to support the National Airlines Commission Bill. However, on behalf of the Opposition I shall move an amendment to the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof - consideration of the Bill be deferred until Ansett Transport Industries Limited form a separate company to conduct airline operations and related activities approved of by the Parliament and provision is made for this company to report annually to Parliament'. 
In speaking in this cognate debate on these 2 Bills there are several things which concern me. In the first instance, this Parliament once again is asked to approve substantial borrowings by Australian airlines. This has happened on previous occasions. In November of last year I raised this issue when this Parliament dealt with a loan to enable Qantas Airways Ltd to purchase 4 Boeing 747 aircraft. The Parliament is now being asked to approve the purchase of 8 aircraft at a total cost of $71,200,000. No case has been presented to the Parliament to show why these 8 aircraft should be purchased, what benefits will be obtained as a result of purchasing the aircraft or whether they are the most suitable aircraft to meet the requirements of the airlines. We have not had a cost benefit analysis presented to the Parliament to substantiate a case for their purchase. This Parliament has been treated with contempt by this Government and by the airlines concerned in asking it to approve of the propositions. 
I would like to know what effect these 8 aircraft will have on the overall load factor of internal airline operations. Honourable members should bear in mind that the aircraft under consideration can be fitted out to 130seat or 156seat configurations as against the present 100 and 110seat capacity aircraft. The effect of having the additional seat capacity of these 8 aircraft will be to make available an additional 1,120 extra airline seats on the basis of one flight of each aircraft per day. In other words, based on one flight a day in one whole year this represents an additional 480,806 extra seats. Can the industry carry this increased seat capacity? Until this time our internal airlines have operated with a very good seat capacity. According to the latest figures available, in 1969-70 Trans-Australia Airlines had a load factor of 67.3 per cent and in 1970- 71 it had a load factor of 6S.2 per cent. Those percentages compared more than favourably with the figures released by the International Civil Aviation Organisation for 1970. In 1968 it was 54.8 per cent, in 1969 it was 52.3 per cent and in 1970 it was 51.6 per cent. Are we going to develop our industry and reach a stage whereby the load factor in our domestic airlines will be reduced? Will we have the luxury of plenty of empty seats but at the same time a high fare level? This is what concerns me. 
In introducing these Bills the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  gave no information on this. The only information that we got in his airy-fairy speech was where the aircraft are to be purchased and how much they will cost. The Minister did not give the House any facts and figures as to what effect the purchase of these new aircraft will have on the internal price structure in our domestic airlines. I would like the Minister in his reply to give me some facts. What recommendations were made to the Government by the airlines concerned? What information has been made available on these aircraft? Will the purchase of these aircraft have a serious effect on the operations of our airlines so that we will have plenty of empty seats and high fares? 
Another matter which concerns me is that over the next 2 years we are going to spend another $7 1.2m on American manufactured aircraft. This is in addition to the $360m which Qantas has spent in the last 10 years on the purchase of American built aircraft. Our own 2 internal airline operators have purchased other aircraft to the value of $175m. Taking into consideration the cost of the 8 aircraft which are now proposed to be purchased we will have spent $606m in the last 10 years on aircraft manufactured in the United States. These purchases have been made from either the Boeing company or from the Douglas Aircraft Co. What has been the return so far as offset payments are concerned? At the present time the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd has orders from the Boeing company to the value of 3340,000, the Government Aircraft Factories have orders to the value of $1,800,000 and Hawker de Havilland has orders to the value of $2.5m - a total of $4,640,000. Not a bad offset payment for $7Im which will be spent by Ansett and TAA over the next 2 years and the $145m which will be spent by Qantas as a result of its purchases between September of last year and about 1973! That is the best that this Government can do. 
The Australian aircraft industry provides at the present time employment for about 6,000 men. Not all of these men are employed on aircraft production or maintenance; many of them are employed on other work associated with civil aviation. It is time that this Government did something positive to provide decent offset payments for the aircraft industry in Australia from overseas aircraft manufacturers whose aircraft we are purchasing. It would be different if there were only ohe country from which we could purchase aircraft suitable to our needs, but there is available the European Airbus and aircraft of the Boeing 727-200 series, which are miniature jumbos. It could be replaced quite easily by the European Airbus. Negotiations could be undertaken by the Government to ensure that the Australian aircraft industry receives some decent return, instead of the Government dealing with these matters in the way that it is at the present time. 
Before I deal with the other aspect of the amendment I ask the Minister to give an assurance to the House. It has been announced by both airlines that the motors which are to be used in the 8 aircraft proposed to be purchased are all of the latest design and will include the latest noise reduction innovations which recently have been perfected by technical engineers and aircraft manufacturers. As the last aircraft will not be delivered until 1974, and taking into consideration the amount of progress that has been made in recent years in suppressing the noise level of aircraft engines, will the Minister give the 
House an assurance that should the aircraft industry produce an engine with a reduced noise level the Australian airlines will be required to acquire these motors, which could be quieter than the ones they are buying? I want the Minister to give me an answer on that matter also when he replies. 
I have moved that consideration of the Bill be deferred until Ansett Transport Industries Ltd forms a separate company for its airline operations. I have spoken on this matter over a period of 5 years, during which time I have been asking the Government to do something positive about requiring Ansett to form a separate airline company that will be charged with the responsibility of running the airline operations of Ansett and other operations which the Government or the Parliament considers to be related to airline activities. We do not support the present position in which Ansett Transport Industries stands. Its annual report shows that it is engaged in many diversified activities. I have not time to go through all the companies with which it is associated, but it owns at least 2 television stations, Channel 0 in both Melbourne and Brisbane, and has an interest in 3 other country television stations. Ansett General Aviation is the distributor for Piper Aircraft Corporation both in Austrafia and in Papua New Guinea. Ansair manufactures road coaches and other vehicles, office partitioning, aircraft seats and domestic oil heaters. Another subsidiary is Aviation Engineering Supplies, whilst Provincial Motors is engaged in automotive merchandising and repairs and is authorised Ford dealer for a number of country centres in Victoria. Ansett Freight Express operates interstate road freighter services as well as being air, rail and sea forwarding agents and customs agents. Ansett Roadways operates road passenger and school services in Victoria. These are just some of the activities of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. 
As a member of this Parliament, I want to know whether Ansett is using the lucrative return on his airline operations to subsidise all the operations to which I have referred and many others which I have not had time to mention. We cannot obtain from the balance sheet and financial statement put out by this company each year information as to what profits or losses are made on Ansett's airline operations. Whilst the annual report states that 71 per cent of Ansett's business comes from airline operations, it does not tell us what percentage of the profit results from airline operations. Whilst the Airlines Agreements Act provides that the Government may appoint someone from the Department of Civil Aviation to examine the finances and affairs of Ansett so long as the Government is guarantor for that company's airline borrowings, the facts are that this Parliament is not advised of what the finances of this company are. We do not even know whether the Minister really knows what they are or whether the Government has appointed an investigator to check out the company's finances, because we never get a report from him or the Minister on this aspect. So all round, to me, there is only one sensible and logical thing to do, and that is, as the amendment lays down, to require Ansett to form a separate company to conduct its airline operations and other activities which Parliament decides are related to its airline operations, and the company should be required to report annually to the Parliament. 
At the present time a 2-airline policy is supposed to prevail and both airlines are supposed to operate on equal terms; yet when one examines the affairs of TAA and the operations of Ansett one certainly finds no comparison between the way these 2 airlines operate. I suggest to the Government that at this stage, before the 2-airline policy is reviewed, the Government should bring forward a paper on the 2-airline policy and let the Parliament debate what role the 2 airlines should be following. We of the Opposition do not oppose the 2-airline system; we accept it. But we do not accept it under its present terms and conditions. The Government should decide, firstly, whether the 2 airlines should be airline operators only. I think the Parliament should give some consideration to this question. There are shipping companies that conduct only shipping affairs and railways that are concerned only with the running of railways. Should the airlines restrict their activities wholly and solely to airline operations? In other words, should they be only carriers of passengers and freight? Should they be able to accept freight, distribute it and do the necessary associated work? 
The other alternative is to lay down what are related activities and apply whatever is decided to both airlines. This is what the Government has not done over the years of the operation of the 2 airline agreement. We on this side of the House believe that under a 2 airline agreement both airlines should be permitted to operate hotels, motels and tourist activities, which will be part and parcel of their operations. We know that hotels, motels and tourist activities are an excellent means of attracting passengers and business for the airline operations. We have seen published over recent days statements by TAA - I am pleased to see that it is moving into this field - that it has been organising and is now prepared to accept charter arrangements and provide airline services for people to go from Melbourne to Sydney, Sydney to Melbourne, from Sydney to Alice Springs and such places for the weekend as part of the development of tourist activities throughout the Commonwealth and at the same time as part and parcel of the promotion of its own airline. This is something that should have been permitted long ago. 
The same thing can be said about road freighters and tourist coaches. If it is good enough for Ansett to have this type of operation, why does the Government not permit TAA likewise to branch out into this operation? It should either permit TAA to branch out or require Ansett to terminate its activities in this field. As far as shareholdings in other companies are concerned, it was brought to my attention only recently that 18 months or 2 years ago one of the largest freight forwarders in Australia approached TAA to set up a separate company to handle freight. This road freighter was prepared to accept the responsibility for the collection and distribution of freight. TAA was to carry the freight by airline from one place to another. Unfortunately for TAA this proposition that was put to it had to be rejected because of the limitation of its charter and the fact that the Government had made a ministerial decision that TAA was not to branch out into this operation. TAA could have been competitive with Ansett Transport Industries in this field, but because of a Government decision it was debarred from branching out into this field. We believe that TAA should be permitted to negotiate agreements and if necessary to form companies with other operators in business associated with and related to airline operations. If TAA had been permitted to set up a separate company and to be an equal partner in it some of the squabbles which have been taking place recently over the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries by a certain operator may not have occurred. 
TAA should be permitted to operate in other fields. It has some of the best technical equipment in the airline industry. TAA should be permitted to branch out and do work outside the airline industry. For example the State Dockyard in Newcastle, about which I know a fair bit, is not restricted to shipbuilding. It can engage in all sorts of engineering work. The State Dockyard's machinery is used for shipping, for shipbuilding, for ship repairing and associated work as required, but it also engages in heavy and light engineering work wherever it can get it. Similar latitude should be given to TAA. Ansett has an open field of opportunity to contract and tender for whatever work it wants to do. TAA should be permitted to do likewise. In that way its equipment would be put to the maximum use. 
Another matter which is of concern to me is the question of airline operations on intrastate routes. Queensland is the only State in which TAA is in full competition with Ansett. TAA has no intrastate operations in New South Wales. Ansett has a monopoly in Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. From the Opposition's point of view that is not in conformity with the general principles of a 2-airline system. Ansett and TAA should be required to share this business. If there is not sufficient business to warrant both airlines operating over the one route the business on that route should be shared. It could be on the basis of TAA being responsible for all of the intrastate business in Western Australia and Ansett being responsible for all of the intrastate business in South Australia and Victoria. I am not saying that that is the way in which the business should be divided; I am saying that after an examination and investigation the Department of Civil Aviation should be able to determine what is a fair and reasonable share of the business and allocate it accordingly. That would apply in cases where there is insufficient business to warrant both airlines operating over the same route. It is something which would be fair and equitable. It is also something that the Government has not been prepared to do so far. I hope that in the not too distant future the Government will change its policy. 
On the question of the setting up of a separate company, it is totally impossible under the present arrangement to determine the components of the profits of Ansett Transport Industries. As I have said in this place on a previous occasion, any mug who is looking at the statements prepared by TAA can determine what its profits are, but it is totally impossible to work out the airline operation profits of Ansett. Rumours are flying around that these profits are used to subsidise other activities. It has been said that Ansett is pouring money into its television stations to try and keep them buoyant and that something like half a million dollars a year is being used to provide advertising time on the Ansett television stations. Ansett is the complete owner of 2 television stations, namely, Channel 0 in Melbourne and Channel 0 in Brisbane. This information would be made available if that company were required to separate its airline operations and thus be required to report annually to this Parliament. 
Prior to the recent attempted takeover by Thomas Nationwide Transport, Ansett Transport Industries had been going along on the basis of paying a nice even dividend of 10 per cent, which cost it $2,670,000 a year. When TNT came along with its bid ATI was able to increase its dividend rate overnight from 10 per cent to IS per cent, which put an additional drain on its funds of $1,335,000. I want the Minister for National Development to inform me why the benefit of an increase of 50 per cent in the dividend paid to the shareholders of ATI just because TNT had attempted to take it over was not made available to the travelling public by way of reduction in fares or freight charges. I would like the Minister to give me some information on that matter because it is important. I think the average air traveller in Australia would like to know the answer to the question of whether Ansett  h  exploiting the airline business at the present moment. There is only one way to find out and that is to require Ansett to publish an annual report and statement on its airline operations. The Senate Standing Committee on industry and Trade, which investigated the takeover proposals of TNT, recommended that Ansett should prepare separate accounts. I do not think that this would be satisfactory. To me there is only one satisfactory solution and that is the setting up of a separate company altogether. 
Another matter with which I would like to deal in the few minutes I have at my disposal is the question of parallel timetables. If ever there has been humbug on the part of both operators and the Government it has been on this subject. A Press statement was issued on it by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on 13th April. It was headed 'New timetables for airlines. Statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Robert  Cotton.' In it he said: 
Of 216 flights from Sydney to Melbourne only 80 would be operated in parallel while from Melbourne to Sydney, of 212 flights only 94 will be operated in parallel . . . 
In fact that grandiose statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation is all bunkum because only 24 flights between Sydney and Melbourne are not parallel flights. I have taken the trouble to check the timetables and that is what I have found. Anybody who checks them closely will find that on the daily flights between Melbourne and Sydney both airlines are still running at the same times and under the same parallel conditions as they did prior to this bit of bunkum being distributed by the Minister for Civil Aviation on 13th April. For example, aircraft leave simultaneously at 7 a.m., 8 a.m., 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 1 p.m., 2 p.m., 3 p.m., 4 p.m., 5.30 p.m., 6 p.m., 6.30 p.m., 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. Then there is a mammoth change from 8.30 p.m. by one airline to 8.45 p.m. by the other and 9.40 p.m. to 9.45 p.m. In the morning TAA has a flight at 6 o'clock and Ansett has one at 6.20. Then there is a 7.15 a.m. flight by TAA and a 7.10 a.m. flight by Ansett. 
That is typical of the timetabling not only between Melbourne and Sydney and Sydney and Melbourne but also between Sydney and Brisbane. The flights between Sydney and Brisbane by Ansett and TAA are at 7 a.m. by both airlines; 7.30 a.m. by one and 7.35 a.m. by the other; 7.40 a.m. by one and 7.45 a.m. by the other; 7.40 a.m. by one and 7.50 a.m. by the other; 8.40 a.m. by one and 8.15 a.m. and 8.40 a.m. by the other; 9.30 a.m. by one and 9.30 a.m. and 9.40 a.m. by the other; 12.40 p.m. by both; 3.40 p.m. by both; 6.40 p.m. and 7.10 p.m. by one and 7.10 p.m. by the other; and 8.20 p.m. and 8.10 p.m. by the other. I do not want to go to the trouble of having recorded in Hansard all the flight times by both airlines between the major cities. The fact of the matter is that if Ministers make statements they should be at least factual. They should not attempt to fool the public and they should not attempt to fool the Parliament. If honourable members were to take the trouble of checking the timetables they would find that there has been no real attempt to end the parallel system of timetabling. 
I do not know why the 2 airlines do not establish the practice, for the benefit of their customers, of one flying on the hour and the other flying on the half-hour. Instead of having to look at timetables - I have quoted the flight times - one would know that almost every hour from the time they start to operate until they finish at night, a plane would be leaving. Why could there not be this separation? Why could they not work on the basis of one airline leaving on the hour and the other leaving on the half-hour? I do not care which one takes the hour or the half-hour. Where it was necessary at peak loading times they could put on a couple of extra aircraft. The Minister should at least be honest when he makes statements. He should not try to fool the public. When the Minister said that, out of 212 flights, only 94 would be operated in parallel he meant that 94 by each airline would be operating in parallel so we would finish up with only 24 that were not parallel flights. The Opposition is not satisfied with the way the operations have been conducted. We have moved an amendment and we will divide the House on it. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  in his reply to the second reading debate, said that the Government was unable to accept the amendment because of the urgent need to get the 2 Bills through the Parliament. The position is that the 2 airlines have not yet completed their negotiations for the loans, and they will not be required to take delivery of the aircraft for some time. In any case, the Opposition would have been quite prepared to withdraw the amendment provided the Minister gave an assurance that the terms of the amendment would be carried out, that is, that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd would be required to set up a separate airline company. We would have been prepared to co-operate with the 
Government, but unfortunately the Government's proposition was not acceptable to us. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I direct my question to the Minster for Shipping and Transport. The Minister will recall that because of the bulldog tenacity of the late Rod Miller he suceeded in breaking the overseas oil company monopoly of the coastal oil tanker trade. Will the Minister give honourable members an assurance that even if Ampol Pty Ltd succeeds with its takeover bid for R. W. Miller Pty Ltd, the oil companies will not be permitted to reintroduce foreign owned and manned tankers on to the Australian coast, even if it means directing the Australian National Line to build tankers for the coastal tanker trade? 
The Bill before the House at the moment is a minor Bill to extend the life of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act from 30th June 1972 until 30th June 1973. The Opposition supports the legislation because, like the government, we are of the opinion that the time is not yet opportune to introduce permanent legislation affecting the waterfront, which as yet has not settled down following the revolutionary change in stevedoring brought about by the introduction of containers, roll-on roll-off ships, palletising and the other innovations which have been introduced into the stevedoring industry. I know that the trade unions involved also are not anxious at this stage to have permanent legislation introduced. The stevedoring industry also is not yet ready for a permanent Act. Therefore, everyone is completely in agreement with what is taking place, namely the extension of the temporary provisions for another 12 months. Let us hope that in that time the industry will be ready for permanent legislation so that everyone can get on with the job. 
One thing which does concern me are the statements that have been made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  I do not think the Minister has contributed to settling down the various parties in the industry. The Minister has in front of him, as I have, his statement of 18th April. One of the statements which concerns me is contained in the last paragraph where the Minister said: 
Several aspects of the Agreement involve Government legislation. The Government will examine the implications of the Agreement but will certainly not be committed to any amendment of the legislation simply because of an agreement which has been negotiated without its endorsement. 
Where does the Government stand on this question? Does it favour people in an industry negotiating agreements and so bring about an understanding between employer and employee within the industry or does it favour heavy handed action by the Arbitration Commission or conciliation commissioners in bringing down decisions that are mandatory on both parties, irrespective of whether the decisions are acceptable to both parties? 
In recent weeks we have debated a very controversial amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In another place the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is being debated at length and that debate could well result in this House being reconvened to deal with business referred to it by the other place. So it is obvious that the more satisfactory method of settling industrial disputes is by negotiation around the table between employer and employee. Let us look at the decisions which have been reached and examine a piece of legislation that was previously introduced into this House and which lay on the notice paper for some time. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  very strongly criticises the recent agreement made at a round-table conference between waterfront labour and a waterfront employer. He criticises the $8 a week increase in the base rate for the first 12 months followed by an additional $4 increase in 1973. The increases represent in the first case $416 a year and in the second case an additional $208 in 12 months time. There is no guarantee that this $208 per annum increase as from May 1973 will in any way take up the increase in the cost of living to which we have been subjected over recent years. 
We should compare those increases with, for example, recommendations made by the Government involving the salaries of certain people such as the  chairman  of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. In that case there is a recommendation that the figure $18,973 be omitted and the figure $22,012 inserted in its place. That is not a bad sort of increase. When one looks at the other increases which are contained in this Bill one asks why the Government is complaining about workers in an industry obtaining an increase of $416 a year to be followed by an increase of $208 a year. The Government applies two standards. It applies one standard to certain classes of people and another standard to others on a lower rung. One of the ridiculous aspects of arbitration today is the flow-on. For example, a fitter goes to court and establishes an entitlement to, say, $7 a week increase in his margin or in his wages, but by the time the flow-on finishes the tall poppies get about $4,000 increase out of it. To me this is not fair and reasonable. I do not think we should apply percentage increases granted to people on a low rate of income to people on a higher rate. I understand the problems associated with relativity, but at the same time the problems of the low income groups have to be taken into consideration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The detailed comments which the honourable member is making would be better left until the appropriate legislation comes before the House. The honourable member for Newcastle was justified in mentioning certain factors in general terms because they were mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech, but detailed comments in relation to those matters should be left until the appropriate legislation comes before the House. This legislation provides mainly for the extension of something for a very limited period of time. 
I accept your advice and appreciate your tolerance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It was for that reason that I referred to one case only and did not quote the whole 4 pages of cases or ask that they be incorporated in Hansard. I realised that I was transgressing. I appreciate your tolerance in allowing me to make the point. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting . I was talking about the difference in the increases in wages of people in certain brackets of income, involving some $3,000 and $4,000 a year and the amount of increase in the recent negotiated agreement between the Waterside Workers Federation and the employers of waterfront labour, involving, in the first year, an increase of $416 per annum and, in the second year, an increase of $208 per annum. I drew attention to the inequalities that existed and I do not propose to touch on this aspect again. I now draw attention to the movement in cargo and the movement in the labour force on the waterfront throughout Australia and the improvement that has taken place in tonnage rates. I meant to ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  whether he would agree to the incorporation in Hansard of a table that I have prepared which sets out the movement in the labour force since 1955, the daily employed average in 1955 as against 1969 to 1971, cargo throughput and other figures. The figures were not taken out by the Parliamentary Library Research Section; I took them out myself. I seek leave to have the table incorporated. 
asked the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Whyalla Shipbuilding and Engineering Works building a ship for Clutha Development Pty Ltd. 
If so, are the engines for this ship spares from another overseas shipbuilding programme by Clutha Development Pty Ltd. 
Have the engines been used in other ships owned by Clutha Development Pty Ltd. 
Were the engines sold to the maker by Clutha Development Pty Ltd and then re-purchased so that an Australian shipbuilding subsidy could be claimed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has Trans-Australia Airlines applied to operate intra-state services in Western Australia; if so, what routes have been requested, what is the proposed frequency of operation and what aircraft does the airline propose to use. 
If there is no current application, when may it re-apply. 
If an application is under consideration, when will a decision be made. 
Because of the Opposition's concern for the growing number of unemployed throughout Australia, it has again raised the question of employment, the movement of industry and the unemployment that flows from it. For this reason we have moved for the discussion as a matter of public importance of the continuing closure of industry with consequent aggravation of unemployment. One of the things that concerns me is that this important matter has not been regarded by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  as of sufficient importance to induce him to give in this Parliament an explanation of what his Department is doing to overcome the problems that have been outlined by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  followed by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  who referred to what is happening in Western Australia. I had hoped that he would give some explanation of some facts that f shall bring to the attention of the Parliament this afternoon. 
The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  quoted at length from the annual report of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd as if the Opposition's attack this afternoon were based purely and simply on actions taken by General Motors-Holden's Ltd. It is not. It is based on the general attitude of industry and the failure of this Government to come up with solutions and with a statement of what it proposes to do about the situation. To summarise the Minister's speech, virtually all that honourable members got out of him was that restructuring is unavoidable. We agree that restructuring is necessary, but what is being done by the company and this Government to alleviate problems created by restructuring? General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has decided to close down its plant as Mosman Park in Western Australia and to throw 230 employees on to the industrial scrap heap. They will have to find employment wherever they can. Incidentally, the company's reason for closing that plant is in direct conflict with the reason given by John Lysaght (Australia) Limited for displacing some 600 of its employees at Newcastle by November this year. I shall deal with that aspect in more detail later. Probably Government members, including the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who is to follow, will give some indication of what the Government is doing in this case and also what it intends to do in regard to the closing by the Chysler-Rootes group of its plant at Fishermen's Bend in Victoria, where some 300 men and women have been thrown out of employment. That industry was closed down there and transferred to South Australia. That is satisfactory for South Australia, but what about the people who have been displaced in Melbourne? What work will they find? 
General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has also closed its Frigidaire manufacturing operations, having transferred them to New Zealand. What is the Government doing about issues like that? Another matter to which I would like to draw attention is the action of the American-owned company, Clutha Development Pty Ltd in closing South Clifton and North Bulli No. 2 coal mines on the South Coast of New South Wales. Why has the company taken this action? It is because of the loss of a contract to the Italian market, which in turn lost it to Goonyella, in the Bowen basin in Queensland, which is 90 per cent owned by an American company, Utah Development Co., in a joint venture with a Japanese company, Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd. These foreign-owned companies are using Australia's assets with complete disregard for the men and women they employ. I might as well mention in passing that in the past week I have received 2 letters from members of trade unions involved in the Australian stevedoring industry, who have been expressing concern about what is happening in that industry. The Government will not even tell its own employees of its intentions. 
In my opening remarks I mentioned that the reason for the closing of the General Motors plant in Western Australia is the opposite of the explanation given by Lysaghts at Newcastle for laying off 600 men by the end of this year. Lysaghts stated that the cost of transporting the completed article had forced the company to take this action. By contrast, General Motors Holden's Pty Ltd announced that it intends to transport the finished article from South Australia to Western Australia. The 2 reasons are contradictions. 
The main thing to be borne in mind is that all the industries I have mentioned this afternoon have either a substantial overseasowned component in their make-up or they are totally overseas owned. Directors overseas are making decisions that affect employment opportunities in Australia. My understanding of the Lysaght case is that the local management favoured unanimously the retention of the industry at Newcastle rather than to fragment it all over Australia. The overseas component of the management made the decision to fragment the industry among the capital cities of Australia and to close down operations at Newcastle. The opposite procedure has been followed by General Motors, the Chrysler-Rootes group and a number of other companies that could be mentioned. 
When reference is being made to unemployment, let us not forget this Government's dithering with the Tariff Board's report on shipbuilding. The inquiry into that industry commenced in August 1969 and the report of the committee of inquiry has been on the Minister's table since 12th June of last year, but still no report has been presented to this Parliament. Surely it must be obvious to Government members what effect this is having on employment in the shipbuilding industry and the development of that industry. Recently I delivered a speech in this House in which I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry for the promised reply to a query raised on 18th May in regard to negotiations by the Australian Gaslight Co. with Japanese steel firms to manufacture and supply 120,000 tons of steel pipes to carry gas from the South Australian gas fields to Sydney. I have not yet received a reply from the Minister. 
Since 1968 more than 18 firms have been completely closed down in my electorate. Either they have failed or they have been transferred to Sydney or to some other place. These close-downs have had a serious effect on employment opportunities at Newcastle. As a result, for every registered unfilled position there are 18 male persons registered, and for females the proportion is 1 to 10. Also, the Government is doing nothing to overcome a problem in my electorate associated with the wool industry. In 1969, 785 men and women were engaged in wool merchandising at Newcastle. The figure is now down to 385. A similar comment may be made about wharf labouring. In 1950 there were between 1,500 and 1,600 men engaged in this work, but in January 1970 there was a port quota of 600 and in April of this year the figure had declined to 372. That situation is attributable to the introduction of containers on Australian ships and to the method adopted for handling wool. The Government has no answer for these problems. Certainly it has made no attempt to find an answer by seeking ways and means to overcome them. The Government is entitled to ask the Opposition to state its attitude on this matter. On 17th May I moved this motion in this House: 
That this House is of the opinion that a parliamentary select committee should be appointed to investigate and report to the Parliament upon the closing down of particular sections of industry with consequent loss of employment. 
At least the Government should permit the members of this Parliament to become involved in trying to find a solution for these problems. If Cabinet cannot find a solution, at least the Government should let the Parliament try to find a solution by investigating the situation and trying to come up with solutions for the major problem of displacement of labour and associated problems. After all, men who are committed to the education of their children, to the upbringing of their families, suddenly find themselves out of work. This applies not only to the labouring class but to everyone in the whole structure of a company. The decision by Lysaght's affects every person working for that company. Men who have had 30 and 40 years in the industry now find themselves on the unemployment market irrespective of whether they are staff men or labourers. It appears that people do not count and the Government does not care. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. If Ampol Petroleum Ltd succeeds with its takeover bid for R. W. Miller Ltd, will this mean that all tankers operating on the coast will then be owned by oil companies, having in mind that Howard Smith Ltd has a substantial interest in oil through its shareholdings in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso, besides being the managing agents for Caltex? Does R. W. Miller Pty Ltd, the only Australian independent tanker operator, own 23.7 per cent of the Australian tanker fleet and does this compare very badly with overseas countries where independent tanker operators own 63.8 per cent of the world tanker fleet? If this takeover is successful, will the oil companies then be in a position to falsify their freight charges and illegally establish a case for a price increase in petroleum products? Finally, is it in the best interests of the Australian economy for all tankers to be owned by oil companies? If not, what action does the Government propose to take to prevent this creation of a monopoly? 
The Opposition has brought forward this matter of public importance because the Government has been sitting on the Tariff Board report for almost 12 months. It has made various promises of bringing the report before the House but until today we have been unsuccessful in obtaining this information. I am pleased to say that as a result of the discussion of this matter of public importance we will finally flush the fox out of his lair. I believe that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  when he follows me, will make reference to the Tariff Board report. So at least thi. decision of the Opposition to bring forward this matter of public importance will pay dividends, will produce a result and will force the Government into making a decision. 
About 5 years ago the Government announced a policy of introducing Australian shipping into the overseas conference lines. This decision was supported strongly by the Opposition. Some 4 years after this decision was made the Government has found itself in the position where we have only 4 ships trading in the overseas tonnage - namely, the 'Australian Endeavour', the 'Australian Enterprise', the Munga' and the 'Matthew Flinders', and some time in the next 12 months no doubt there will be the 'Australian Exporter'. I think this is a disgraceful situation. We have some 5,000 sailings a year from Australian ports handling exports to the value of $4,400m and representing something like 100 million to 110 million tons of cargo. So there is any amount of trade for an Australian merchant fleet to carry. The Government should be getting on with the job. 
Even though the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, stated that the object of the exercise was to get a window into the conferences, up to this point if there is a window into the conferences the Government has not told the Parliament what it is. Members of the Opposition have tried to obtain information as to what is actually transpiring in this trade and what the window is disclosing. The report of the Australian National Line discloses no confidential information or no information of value to honourable members. All we know is that it would appear that the venture into the European conference in particular has been a failure, that the recommendations that were made originally for roll-on roll-off ships to be used have been borne out and that the decision of the Government to go into cellular container ships has not been the success that it was hoped it would be. 
As far as the coastal trade is concerned, at present I believe 17 Australian ships are laid up with a displacement of 600 men who normally would man those ships. When another 300 complete their leave there will be a total of 900 Australian seamen unemployed because of the policy of this Government. We on this side of the House believe that something positive should be done about it. We believe that the Government should have taken action to move into the crude oil trade. In 1970-71 there were 3,001 million gallons of crude oil imported into Australia. All of this was brought to this country in foreign owned and manned ships. At the present time all ships in the New Guinea to Australia trade are foreign owned and manned. In the period including all of 1971 and up to February 1972- that is, a period of 14 months - 27 ships carried phosphate from Nauru to Australia; 25 ships carried phosphate from Christmas Island to Australia; and 12 carried phosphate from Ocean Island to Australia. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which I have already shown to the Minister for Shipping and Transport which very clearly gives the picture of the amount of phosphate that is carried from these islands to Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the annual cost of advertising airline operations by - 
Trans-Australia Airlines; 
Ansett Airlines of Australia and each of its airline subsidiaries; 
East-West Airlines; and 
Qantas during the last live years. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is he able to say in which year since 1950 fares were increased in respect of each State passenger tram, bus and ferry system. 
If so, what was the amount of the increase in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth pay a subsidy to some Australian primary and secondary industries? &lt;2) If so, (a) what are the industries? (b) when was the subsidy granted in each case? and (c) what payments have been made to each industry since 1959-60? 
 The Bill now before the House is a very small and very simple Bill which requires only the deletion of the reference to the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea from the Commonwealth Lighthouses Act. Whilst it is only a simple and small Bill I consider it to be an important Bill because it hands over from the Australian Administration to the Government of Papua New Guinea the responsibility for the operation of lighthouses and various types of navigational equipment. As will be seen by the second reading speech of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the Government has once again displayed that it has not carried out its responsibility over the years of training the indigenous population of the Territory to accept the responsibilities which must inevitably become theirs in the not too distant future. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The skilled crew of the New Guinea-based lighthouse tender, MV 'Noel Buxton', will remain until such time as the Administration can replace them. Training of lighthouse technicians will be provided as soon as the Administration can engage indigenous tradesmen. Technical servicing of equipment such as the flashing mechanisms of lights will be provided until such time as the Administration has made its own arrangements. 
The Government was given 31/2 years notice that it should be handing this over. I want to quote briefly from the United Nations publication on a transport survey which was carried out some years ago in Papua New Guinea. It is the United Nations Development Programme - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - entitled Transport Survey of the Territories of Papua and New Guinea'. Recommendation 33 of the report under the heading Maritime' reads as follows: 
The Administration, through the agency of the Division of Marine and the Harbours Board  should take over responsibility for primary navigational aids from the Commonwealth Government. Both for primary navigational aids and within all ports, the Division and the Board should provide additional lights and daymarks. It would be necessary to increase light dues and make them payable by all craft. 
That report is dated February 1969. This Bill was presented to the House at the end of May 1972. It took the Government 31 years to bring this legislation to the Parliament. The most important point about it is that, having brought it to the Parliament 31/2 years after the recommendations were made, the Government is still not in a position to hand over to an indigenous crew or to indigenous workmen the responsibility for carrying out this work of the lighthouses. If honourable members interested in Papua New Guinea and in transport in general in that Territory were to read through this report, they would be aware of all the things that the Government has not done in the field of transport. 
There is one point to which I would like to refer also to show that this is not the only breach on the part of the Government. Under the heading 'Maritime' there are 42 recommendations. Recommendation No. 38 reads as follows: 
The establishment of a shipping company or corporation, with substantial Administration participation, and incorporating leading coastal operators, should be considered. 
There is any amount of need for the setting up of a shipping line. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which airports in each State are maintained and operated by (a) The Department of Civil Aviation and (b) local government. 
How many (a) engineers (b) technical officers and (c) draftsmen are employed by the Department to look after these airports in each State and are they responsible for both Department of Civil Aviation and local government controlled airports. 
What was the number of created positions in 1962 and in each year since then. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which officers of the Department of Civil Aviation have officially inspected airport and associated facilities at (a) Lord Howe Island and (b) Norfolk Island during the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What funds were available in each State foi airport engineering work on 1 July 1970 and 1 July 1971 and also 31 March, 30 April, 31 May and 30 June in each of the years 1971 and 1972. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what (a) was the outstanding debt and (b) were the interest payments for each State passenger tram, bus and ferry system for each of the financial years 1949-50, 1959-60 and 1969-70. 
If so, how much of the debt and interest payments was owed and paid to overseas investors. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what was the (a) value of assets (b) outstanding debt (c) amount of loan repayments (d) amount of interest payments and (e) profit or loss for the year trading for each State passenger tram, bus, and ferry system, as at 30th June in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Which Australian ports are equipped to handle containers. 
What was the cost of providing the necessary facilities in each case. 
What is the container handling capacity of each. 
How many containers were handled by each port during 1971. 
It was interesting to listen to the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  eulogising the Government for its plan to abolish the means test in 3 years. Let me draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that 3 years ago he and all the other members on the Government side were severely critical of the Australian Labor Party's policy, as announced in the last election campaign, to abolish the means test in 6 years, that is, by 1975. Then we heard the usual old argument: Where is the money coming from?' Apparently the financial magicians of the Liberal Party have suddenly discovered that it can be done. The same applies to pensions. We said that we would increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. All that the present increases have done is make up for the loss of earnings for which this Government is responsible by allowing galloping inflation to grip the Australian economy as it has in years gone by. The means test is to be abolished; but was it not only 3 weeks prior to the Budget that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  were both most critical of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  when he suggested that the means test should be abolished? I think everyone realises that this Budget is a political Budget brought down by a desperate Government trying to save its political hide, and it has as much chance of doing that as it has of dying to the moon. 
I want to repeat once again the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  because I think it is a good amendment and clearly sets out the 
Labor Party's attitude to this Budget. The amendment seeks to insert the following words:  the House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres. 
I want to deal with one aspect of this amendment that concerns my part in the Australian Labor Party. I refer to public transport. This is a field in which the Government has failed miserably to tackle important problems. Public transport provides a means for people to get to and from their places of employment, but with a great amount of inconvenience and cost involved. The Budget contains nothing about an integrated transport system to reduce fares and freight charges, nothing about the planned use of sea, rail and road transport, the planned replacement of uneconomic rail freight and passenger services with road transport and the possible carriage of passengers by bus, and nothing to encourage the city commuter who is the single occupant of a motor vehicle to travel to work by public transport. The Government originally had ideas on this subject. The former Prime Minister, the Right Honourable John Gorton, on 8th October 1969 had this to say when he was giving his policy speech: 
In  the past, the Commonwealth Government has encouraged several forward looking transport policies - for example - rail standardisation, the development of beef cattle roads and container shipping. It will continue to implement measures which will lead to the reduction of internal transport costs. The problem of traffic congestion in the cities is one of great urgency. We have made a significant contribution to easing that congestion problem through an allocation for urban arterial and sub-arterial roads, but there is a great deal more to be done, especially in improving public transport systems. 
The last sentence in that extract was underlined, so apparently the Government considered that of major importance. But what is the real position? There was nothing for public transport in the 1970-71 Budget. Admittedly there was a process of de-Gortonisation in 1971 when the present Prime Minister took over. Even though that process of de-Gortonisation should have been concluded by now, the Government still has not had any new ideas on what it will do about it. 
I ask the Government this simple question: What does it intend to do about the mammoth railway debt and interest payments, and about the rundown public transport system? At the moment the railway debt stands at $ 1,590m. In 1950 it stood at S 1,025m. That makes an increase in 20 years of $565m. Today the State railways are burdened with an interest bill of $77.3m. That was for last year. Because they are continuing to borrow money and are not able to repay it, and because of limited finances, that figure of $77.3m will increase in the next year to a much greater amount. If it is not attended to very shortly we can expect the capital cities and the other large cities such as Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong to choke up. A gigantic sum must be provided for the construction of expressways and freeways to cope with the traffic. 
As in so many other national problems, the Government's attitude is: Leave it to the States. Do not talk about it and it will go away. But, unfortunately, the problem will not go away and it is obvious that the Government has not had any new ideas on what it proposes doing about it. The Australia Labor Party's proposal is to take over the whole of the State railway system including the debt. This is the only Parliament in Australia that has the financial resources to handle the crippling debt with which the railways are burdened today. At the same time, this is the only Parliament in Australia that has the ability to introduce an integrated rail system to overcome the parochial problems which exist in the railway systems today. For example, it is cheaper to transport goods from Kempsey to Brisbane than it is to transport them from Kempsey to Sydney. It is cheaper to transport goods from Mildura to Adelaide than it is to transport them from Mildura to Melbourne. These are some of the things that are wrong with our railway systems today. That is why I believe that only the Commonwealth Government is in a position to tackle this problem. 
When that statement was made some years ago by the Leader of the Opposition, and repeated again in recent years, the States indicated that there would be bias and that some States would receive prefer ential treatment. Let us examine the airline operations, for which the Commonwealth is responsible. There is no bias towards any one State and the result is that all the States get a reasonable go as far as civil aviation is concerned. It is the responsibility of this Parliament to take over the railways, to upgrade urban transport and to draw commuters away from private transport and towards public transport. This could be done by providing non-repayable grants to the States for their public transport systems. I am referring to buses and trams. In this field there have been considerable increases in fares and charges over recent years. This field involves a lot of people. I want to quote some statistics as an example of the way in which public transport in the 6 capital cities has changed. In 1960-61, 1,105 million passenger journeys were made in the 6 capital cities. In 1970-71 that number had declined to 948 million, a drop of 14.2 per cent in the number of people using public transport. Yet in the same period the population of our capital cities increased from 5,758,000 as at 30th June 1961 to 7,502,000 as at 30th June 1971, an increase of 30.3 per cent. This is what is happening today. 
The Opposition says that this situation has been brought about because the Government has not been prepared to make money available to the States to upgrade their public transport systems and to maintain fares at a fair and reasonable level. Let me cite some figures which show how bus and tram fares have increased in the capital cities from 1949 up to 1971. The increase has been one of the major reasons for people leaving public transport and going back to private transport, which they find cheaper. For example, in New South Wales in 1949 the fare for the first section was 2c. Today it is 10c. In 1949 the maximum charge in New South Wales was 7c. Today it is 45c. In Victoria in 1949 the fare for the first section was 2c. Today it is 10c. The maximum charge in 1949 was 8c, Today it is 50c. In South Australia in 1949 the fare for the first section was 2c. Today it is 10c. The maximum charge has increased in that period from 12c to 30c. These are facts that must be borne in mind by honourable members in this place when they are talking about transport. 1 have a chart here which was provided in an answer to a question I asked recently of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  This chart discloses that from 1958-59 to 1969-70 the New South Wales bus and tram service - it would be mainly buses there - has had a loss of revenue over expenditure every year in that period. I do not have time to go through them individually. These losses do not take into consideration the interest and loan repayments which ran into millions of dollars each year. Victoria and the other States have had mixed years. Sometimes they have been able to finish in front - to finish with a profit - but in other years they have lost. If one were to deduct from the profits they have made the cost of interest repayments, one would find that on every occasion each of the urban transport systems of the 6 capital cities has shown a loss. This is of importance and of major significance. The Opposition believes it is time the Government was doing something about it. 
Let us compare the capital expenditure on roads and on public transport over the last 10 years. The total capital expenditure on roads in Australia in the last 10 years has been $4,905m, of which the Commonwealth contributed $ 1,630m. In the same period, $l,605m was spent on urban roads in the 6 capital cities. What was spent in the same capital cities in the same period on railways, buses and trams? A total of Si 50m was spent on railways and a total of $48m was spent on buses and trams. Let us compare the numbers of people that can be carried in the 2 forms of transport. It is accepted that, with divided carriageways containing 4, 5 or 6 lanes as the case may be, 3,000 persons per lane/ mile per hour can be carried whereas the Eastern Suburbs Railway which is being built in Sydney has been designed to carry between 30,000 and 40,000 passengers an hour. If double-decker carriages are introduced, that number could be lifted to 50,000 passengers an hour. Yet this Government does nothing about it. In the last 20 years we have seen a mammoth change in expenditure on public transport. For example, in 1950-51 roads took up 46 per cent of capital expenditure, railways took up 37 per cent, and other forms including civil aviation took up 17 per cent. In 1970-71 that allocation for roads had increased from 46 per cent to 69 per cent and rail expenditure went down from 37 per cent to 13 per cent. From those figures it is obvious what has taken place as far as transport is concerned. 1 have not time in this debate to deal with all the States, but I point out that in Sydney today there is under construction a western distributor, for which an allocation of S9.5m has been made. When it is completed it will cost between S30m and $40m. Also under construction is the northwest expressway, for which S30m has been allocated. The Warringah Expressway has already had $26m expended on it, the total estimated cost being S80m. Also under construction is the Kings Cross tunnel which is estimated to cost $12m. But what is being expended by the Commonwealth on the provision of public transport systems? This is an area in which this Government has a responsibility. 
The Opposition's suggestion that Federal aid should be given for public transport systems is not something new. In 1969  President  Nixon announced in the United States Congress that his Administration would spend SIO billion on transport over the next 12 years. In Washington Sl.lOOm has been allocated for the construction of an underground railway system. In San Francisco another system is estimated to cost $180m - with Federal aid. The same can be said in respect of Chicago, Boston and Philadelphia. In Canada 2 large schemes are being undertaken in Toronto and Montreal, one estimated to cost $ 9m and the other $220m. In West Germany 10 major cities are undertaking the construction of rapid rail transport systems to be financed by 50 per cent Federal assistance, 30 per cent State assistance and 20 per cent local government assistance. 
What we on this side of the House say is that there are any number of precedents in other countries for the granting of Federal aid to transport systems. In fact the United States Transportation UnderSecretary,  Mr James  Beggs, had this to say in the 'Business Week' journal of 3rd June 1972: 
We've put around $500 billion into  roadbuilding  in this country, and you can bail out mass transit for far less than that. Financially, it's double.' 
We believe that in Australia it is financially do-able, to use  Mr Beggs'  term. It is up to this Government and to this Parliament to accept the responsibility and to do something about this. The Labor Party has said that it proposes to do something about it. As I mentioned earlier, we will take over the railway systems and provide money for upgrading the public transport systems. 
I turn now to the present financial position of the 6 State railway systems for the year ended 30th June 1970. The loss on country and interstate passenger services amounted to $39m. For the suburban passenger services there was a loss of $19m. On freight services there was a profit of $83m. In addition to those amounts the interest and loan charges were $96m. We on this side of the House believe that the two forms of transport - passenger transport and freight transport - should be separated. We know that twothirds of the suburban passenger rolling stock in the capital cities is over 40 years old and that half of the rolling stock for freight services is over 30 years old. This means a limitation on axle loadings, speed restriction, high maintenance costs and an increased number of derailments. 
These are the sorts of things which can be corrected only by the Commonwealth. We hope that a Commonwealth government run by the Labor Party will be able to provide the money to take over these transport systems. We know that we can do it. We know that this would provide a better freight service. We know that it would take people off the roads. To put people into public transport would help to overcome a major problem, namely, road deaths. Evidence produced to a committee of which I am a member shows that road accidents are costing $750m a year. What we have to do is to prevent the cities of this country from being choked by the huge expressways and by a multiplicity of motor vehicles entering those cities. There is only one way in which to tackle this problem and that is to upgrade the public transport system with the use of Federal financial assistance so that people will be able to travel in reasonable comfort and at reasonable speed in trains, buses and trams. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I commend the Government for making this statement on civil aviation. I ask and strongly urge the Government to throw this matter open for general debate, not necessarily today because it will interfere with the Budget debate but at least immediately following the Budget debate. This will give honourable members on both sides of the House an opportunity to debate this very important paper. I know that this is a progressive move for a government to take. I have been asking for 
Some considerable time that Ministers present the equivalent of a White Paper, Green Paper or Blue Paper; I do not care what colour it is. I have asked that the Government give us at least some statement of Government intent on the operation of trading undertakings, and if not on trading undertakings then at least on what the Government is thinking. This is what the Government has done on this occasion. 
J do not want my moment of weakness in commending the Government for this action to be understood as meaning that I agree with everything the Government has said in this paper, because I do not. Tt is an excellent paper and I want to deal with it as well as I can in the limited time now available. First, 1 cannot see any justification for granting Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and extension of another S years in relation to the 2-airline system which all told would take the agreement up to 10 years. It is obvious that  Sir Reginald  Ansett realises that this Government is on the way out - it has only a few more weeks to go - and that the Australian Labor Party will then be reviewing the agreement. This is what, we will do. If the exact wording of the agreement does not meet with our requirements we will take action in the next Parliament to amend it and to write into the agreement those things which we believe should be written into it to bring about a genuine 2-airline policy that will give both airlines equal opportunities. Even from what the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has stated to date there is no indication that there will be a genuine 2-airline policy. The agreement will continue to be loaded in favour of ATI as it has been ever since it was written by this Government. 
Admittedly, some of the things which are forecast are an improvement on what has been in existence over the years during which this agreement has been functioning. One of the things with which we agree is the investigation into foreign ownership. For years the Labor Party has been saying that there is too much foreign ownership of Australia's national resources, industry and commerce. If the Government puts a limitation on this we will support it. As I said earlier, if we do not agree with the policy in this instance we will amend the agreement and write it in the way we want it. We welcome the announcement of sep arate accounts for Ansett Transport Industries airline operations. Personally I would prefer 2 separate and distinct airline companies: Trans-Australia Airlines as it is at the moment and Ansett Transport Industries, a company formed to conduct airline business and associated activities. But at least if there are to be separate accounts for Ansett's airline operations we on this side of the House want those accounts to be audited by the Government AuditorGeneral. If this does not happen then, to use a term, the books can be cooked. We have no doubt that this is what would happen. We know that at the present time the Ansett airline is operating in a fully protected field and that some of its money is being used to bolster the revenue of Ansett television stations. Recently 1 asked a question, about this matter and the Minister was not prepared to answer. After some considerable time he gave me the reply that this was the business of ATI. It is not the business of ATI. This is a protected industry. It has the full protection of this Government from any outside competitors. Therefore the taxpayers, the people who use the airlines of this country, are entitled to know the conditions under which both airlines operate. These are matters which we want brought out. 
I deal now with the proposal finally to grant TAA access to the Perth-Darwin route in Western Australia. This will be phased in during the course of the next 2 years. Why is that period involved? I ask the Minister to make a statement at some later stage on why this new operation will be phased in during the course of the next 2 years. As part of this phasing-in process, will TAA be required to take some of the F28 aircraft - the pure jet Fokker Fellowship - off the hands of MacRobertsonMiller Airlines which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ansett Transport Industries? We believe that MacRobertson-Miller Airlines will have a couple of those aircraft spare. Trans-Australia Airlines has followed a policy of concentrating on 4 aircraft, the Boeing 727, the DC9, the F27 and the Twin Otter. Will TAA be forced, as it has been on previous occasions, to fall into line with ATI although TAA had made the right decision in the prevailing circumstances? 1 instance the occasion when TAA made the right decision in purchasing Viscount aircraft and ATI made the wrong decision when it purchased the DC6 aircraft. I hope that the Minister will clarify some of these points in detail when the relevant legislation is presented to the Parliament some time this session. 
As I said earlier, Ansett Transport Industries does not want the Labor Party to review the 2-airline agreement. We will not do anything that is unfair to Ansett. All we will do is to put TAA on equal operating terms with Ansett. 
Of course we will. We will be doing it. The Minister has realised that the ship is sinking and that is why he has announced his intention to resign. He does not wish .to be a back bench member. That is why he is getting out. He has enough sense to get out and I commend him for that. 
One aspect of this statement that concerns me is that the right of TAA to greater operational opportunities in Western Australia will be subject to the condition that the Government will not face additional costs for airport facilities. I understand that a technical problem is associated with tyre pressures used by aircraft operating in this area. I hope that this will not be one of those little conditions, literally in small type, which in reality places an additional financial burden on the new operator. I hope that that will not be the position. Although I have not sufficient information on this matter as yet to refer to it in detail, I do believe that there is some problem in that respect. I hope that these small technical details will not be used to the disadvantage of TAA. 
We are happy that TAA is being granted access to the Darwin-Gove route and to the Cairns-Weipa-Thursday Island route. This is something which should have been done long ago. In fact, I feel that this approach to the problem of equalising routes for each of the airlines is just a piecemeal one. The Government should conduct a survey of the amount of traffic to which TAA has access, the amount of traffic to which ATI has access and then share that traffic evenly between them. On some of the routes on which it will not be an economic proposition for both airlines to operate, one airline should have access to those routes in one State and the other airline should have access to similar routes in another State. What I am seeking is a complete genuine 2-airline policy or, as I said in March of this year, an even-handed 2-airline policy. 
The Opposition welcomes these improvements. It welcomes also the decision to permit TAA to contract and to tender for general engineering work. I spoke about this need also in March of this year. TAA has highly specialised equipment which has been lying idle for a good deal of the time. Under this new agreement TAA will be able to tender for outside work as ATI is able to do with its engineering works. 1 turn to parallel scheduling. Once again, we welcome the announcement of the new proposals, but I hope that these proposals will not be as phoney as were the parallel scheduling proposals which were made by the Minister in the autumn session of the Parliament and which he said were a great improvement. In fact, on the Sydney/ Melbourne run 92 parallel scheduled nights were conducted. This was supposed to be the great improvement to which the Minister referred. He really tried to pull the wool over the eyes of the people in that case. We will be pushing for the breaking up of the schedules. I think every traveller using aircraft today would welcome a change in the policy that has been pursued by the 2 domestic airlines for many years of having their aircraft take off and land at times very close together. It is farcical and ridiculous. There is no reason why on the Sydney/ Melbourne run TAA could not operate on the hour and Ansett on the half-hour. If there were any advantages to one airline under that system, next year Ansett could operate on the hour and TAA could operate on the half-hour. We will be looking with interest at developments in that field. 
Naturally we are hopeful of a greater improvement in country air services. This is a subject on its own. We are critical of the inadequacies of civil aviation services to remote country areas. Both major airlines and the commuter airlines should work together to provide better services. Similar remarks could be addressed to our domestic tourist industry. There has been no real move until recent months to stimulate tourist activity. Greater co-operation is required between the airline operators and people in the tourist industry so that people may be attracted to this country and provided with air services to all our places of interest. 
Recently I had brought to my notice some information about air freights. Earlier this year a large freight forwarder approached both airlines to enter into an arrangement to book certain space on their aircraft. The freight forwarder would pay for the space irrespective of whether he used it, under an arrangement similar to that between road hauliers and the railways. My information is that TAA was prevented from entering into an agreement by a ministerial decision. After that decision was made Ansett Transport Industries was prepared to listen to the freight forwarder but was not prepared to enter into an agreement. It is about time the Government stuck a pin in both domestic airlines to get them moving. 
Another important aspect of civil aviation is the curfew arrangements. This is a most contentious point at many airports. My colleague the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  has a major problem in respect of the Perth airport. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and other colleagues with electorates in the vicinity of the Adelaide airport have similar problems. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  is in the chamber. He was  chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, a major recommendation of which was that the curfew on flights of jet aircraft between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. should be rigidly enforced. The Government has failed to implement that recommendation. Last year nearly 400 jet aircraft were given permission to operate within curfew hours. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  approved those flights. 
The Labor Party will implement the recommendation of the Select Committee. There will be consultations between myself and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who is also vitally con cerned with the aircraft noise. The Labor Party will enforce the curfew to lessen the noise annoyance in the residential areas around Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. We will not allow prop and turbo-prop aircraft to use runways involving flights over residential areas during curfew hours. If such aircrafts are to operate in curfew hours they will have to conduct nose to nose operations over Botany Bay by using the 16/34 runway. That is the only way we will approve flights by those aircraft in curfew hours because people are entitled to their rest. I repeat that in the last 12 months about 400 flights by jet aircraft have been conducted in curfew hours. That is not carrying out the recommendations of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
We have been concerned for a considerable time about Connair Pty Ltd. 1 hope that the Minister will give me an extension of time, as promised. The Australian Labor Party is not happy with the scandalous rate of subsidy that has been  pM in  recent years to Connair Pty Ltd. (Extension of time granted). I thank the Minister tor National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  and the House for extending the time available to me. For example, in 1970-71, Connair received a subsidy of $838,000. I draw the attention of the House to the way that the subsidy increased from the 1969-70 figure of $447,739. We are not happy about this subsidy arrangement because there are rumours that there is a secret agreement existing between Connoir and the former Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, which has resulted in this bonanza to the company. That agreement, which is of decided advantage to the Country Party, has been allowed by the Government to continue for political reasons. 
Connair is being run in an extremely inefficient manner. New management, a choice of different aircraft and the provision of regular services under air navigation regulation 203 instead of the present arrangement would give the people of the Northern Territory district who are covered by this service the same standard of service at a cost which would call for an essential rural development subsidy of about $500,000 less than the subsidy of $838,000 which was paid to Connair in 1970-71. At present, this subsidy is being spent on nonrural air routes such as the run from Alice 
Springs to Ayers Rock which purely and simply is a tourist attraction. This is a blatant waste of public funds. I believe that this run could be operated much more cheaply by other operators. If Connair Pty Ltd were taken over by Trans-Australia Airlines or even by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, the cost to the Government - 'that is, the taxpayer - would be cut immediately, possibly with no subsidy being necessary, without in any way jeopardising an adequate service to the 120 or more centres in the Northern Territory. Connair has been badly mismanaged over the years. It has its own expensive offices in too many centres. It operates the wrong sort of aircraft for its requirements. For instance, the Opposition believes that TAA or Ansett could operate the Katherine service for about one-tenth of the present cost. We are not happy with what is happening to Connair and a Labor government would do something positive about it. 
The other scandal revealed in the statement which has been made by the Minister for National Development deals with superannuation. This is something that  Sir Reginald  Ansett has complained about for many years but it was written into the Austral ion National Airlines Act of 194S and 1961. Section 32 deals specifically with the superannuation funds. The use of those funds by TAA was to be taken into consideration in assessing the profit that the company makes. At present, TAA is using its superannuation funds but it is paying to the fund 54 per cent interest on the money that it is using. The Government's new proposal will require TAA to lodge its superannuation funds with the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and an amount of 54 per cent interest will be paid by the Commonwealth to TAA. Based on the Slim which will be required to finance its scheme in an operation year, this will cost TAA $516,000 a year in interest. I ask the Minister for National Development: What is the Government going to do about this? 
TAA has had access to these funds ever since the Act to which I just referred was introduced. In future, when TAA wants money to carry out some work in the operation of its airline, it will have to approach the Treasury which will have to approve in principle the proposed expenditures. Having finally condoned what the business management of TAA considered a reasonable proposition, the Treasury will then charge TAA an interest rate of 7i per cent. This is why this proposal will cost TAA over $500,000 a year. The use of these funds was taken into consideration originally by the Government. It was part of the payoff to TAA to compensate the company for its lack of diversification which was available to Ansett Transport Industries. So, a Labor government will permit TAA to use its funds in future. 
At the present time Ansett has a superannuation fund but it does not cover as many employees as does the TAA fund. Ansett invests in policies with the Australian Mutual Provident Society, which in turn is a substantial shareholder of ATI. Therefore so far as AMP is concerned it will be doing all right out of this. Ansett has access to its superannuation funds and can use that money to build offices and things of that type and can carry out capital development. TAA uses its funds if it wants to enter into an arrangement with a group of hotels or tourist organisations. It can use those funds to buy shares in the companies concerned but in the future the Treasury will have to authorise this and we know that the Treasury can be pretty niggardly when it comes to these questions. 
In the limited time left to me I want to refer to the profits being made by TAA. There is a requirement to return a profit or dividend of 10 per cent annually to the Government. This is far too high in a protected industry such as this 2-airline policy provides. The Australian Labor Party will require TAA to make a profit no greater than the long term bond rate, or possibly just a little in excess of it. This will bring about an immediate reduction in airline fares. TAA is required to make this 10 per cent profit each year so that Ansett in turn can make a similar profit and continue to pay its shareholders what we consider is an exorbitant profit in a protected industry. We are going to upset that arrangement. Honourable members may rest assured that this is one matter with which we will be dealing when we become the government in the new year. We will reduce the dividend rate, reduce the profit margin, and in turn bring about a reduction in fares. 
The Opposition welcomes the decision to give more assistance to Qantas Airways Ltd. I hope that the Government will take note of the serious over-capacity that exists at present on the Pacific route. It could do something positive about this by reducing the frequency of flights. In the 30 seconds left to me I draw attention to the fact that at present the Department of Civil Aviation is completely and totally responsible for civil aviation operations in Papua New Guinea. All the technical staff at present are Europeans and no opportunities are being given to the indigenous population. In Papua New Guinea today the indigenes are the labourers. Labouring work is the only sort of work they do. They do none of the technical work associated with airline operations or DCA operations. I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will look at this matter very closely when he is in the Territory so that these people can be part of the establishment when they get independence. I hope that when independence is granted TAA will be given rights equal to those of ATI. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Giles) adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Minister seen reports that last year on the Pacific route to the United States of America, Qantas Airways Ltd carried 36,446 passengers compared with 45,100 carried by Pan American World Airways Incorporated and 9,918 carried by American Airlines Incorporated, which represented a load factor of 40 per cent for Qantas and 55 per cent of Pan Am? Is this the first time since 1957 that Pan Am has carried more passengers than Qantas on the Pacific route? What is the reason for this serious loss of business by Qantas and what action is proposed to ensure a more reasonable share of the market for it? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has any survey been conducted to determine the effects on beaches around Botany Bay and Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport Runway 16/34 when the bay is deepened to 70 feet. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Are the sea buoys marking the approaches to Port Hedland, Western Australia, to be removed. 
If so, how many shipmasters of vessels which have a draft of not less than 35 feet who have navigated their own ships into and out of Port Hedland have been approached by the Department in order to get their opinion of the removal of the buoy$ in the sea channel. 
How many shipmasters in the same category have agreed that the Decca System by itself constitutes a safe means of navigating the sea channel. 
In view of statements in the Admiralty List of Radio Signals, Volume V., that Decca is a radio navigational aid intended for coastal and landfall navigation and when no information regarding fixed errors is available, the chartered Decca lattices should be used with caution, especially near the coast and in restricted waters, has the Decca Navigator Co. guaranteed (hat the system can be used with 100 per cent accuracy both by day and night and in all types of weather conditions including cyclonic precipitation in the sea approaches to Port Hedland. 
Is it a fact that the currents in the area in question are very strong and variable and that no attempt has been made to display any of the information on the currents on the charts presently available. 
Can he say what other similar difficult areas of navigation in other parts of the world depend entirely on .Decca Navigator equipment. 
Will he produce and make available for comment by shipmasters of the vessels most vitally concerned the report on which the decision was taken to remove the sea buoys. 
ls there any doubt that Port Hedland will be considered as a safe port by shipowners and charterers, marine insurance organisations and protection and indemnity, associations. 
Have all other alternative and supplementary navigational aids, such as Recon, Ramark lights, beacons and buoys, been considered. 
In the event of a ship arriving off Port Hedland and not being fitted with Decca Navigator or having the equipment aboard but unserviceable or, alternatively, if a master considers it unsafe to enter the port area even when equipped with Decca Navigator, has provision been made to enable these vessels to safely enter the port. 
Are there satisfactory guaranteed alternative transmission systems available iti case of damage to transmitters or any portion of the shore equipment being put out of action by electrical storms and cyclones. 
Because of the increasing use of deep draft bulk carriers and the need for the safe navigation of approach routes to ports, has the provision of lane separation for inward and outward bound vessels been considered for Port Hedland. 
If lane separation has not been considered for Port Hedland is it proposed to use regulations to protect heavily laden vessels which will be committed to use the channel when only 1 Decca Plot route is in use for both inward and outward bound vessels. 
ls it intended to make Decca Navigator equipment a compulsory, piece of equipment for all vessels navigating Port Hedland. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Have contracts been let for the compilation of the pink pages in telephone directories. 
If so, who was the successful tenderer in each State. 
What was the price submitted by (a) the successful tenderer and (b) unsuccessful tenderers. 
 I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. I commend the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  for having brought it before this Parliament because, realising the fact that airports are a fait accompli, we have to do the best that we can with them until such time as alternative sites can be found, particularly for Sydney. The recommendation contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for St George is strictly in accord with the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise which tabled its report in this place some 18 months ago. Unfortunately, the Government has not seen fit to act upon and to implement all the recommendations that were made. 
For the Honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  to call on this House to oppose the amendment gives us a clear indication of his attitude, which is: 'I'm all right Jack but to hell with you'. He has no aircraft noise problems in his electorate at North Sydney. As far as he is concerned, the people in the electorates of St George, Barton, Kingsford-Smith and Grayndler can make the best of what they have, lt is time that this attitude was changed. There is hardly a capital city airport in Australia that has not got an aircraft noise problem. Perth has a serious problem, as have Adelaide and Brisbane. It is only because of the new location of Tullamarine Airport that Melbourne has overcome the problem. Practically the same thing could be said about Hobart Airport. I do not want to deal with this matter in detail at this stage. 
I draw the attention of the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay)  to the fact that this is supposed to be a discussion of the estimates for civil aviation which takes in the Department of Civil Aviation, TransAustralia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd. Where are the annual reports of those 3 organisations? Surely this House is entitled ito the courtesy of having the Department of Civil Aviation annual report in its possession a reasonable time before this debate comes on. In previous years we have had it put in our boxes on the day on which the estimates were dealt with. It is commo i practice for this Government to withhold as much information as possible from honourable members so that they do not have the facts in front of them to discuss during a debate on the estimates. It is time that the Government did something positive to ensure that these reports are in the hands of honourable members before the debate starts. The same thing can be said in regard to debates on estimates for other departments. The annual report of the 'Department of Health is in the hands of honourable members so that when they deal with the estimates for that .Department they at least know what the Department has to say about its activities during the previous 12 months. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  apparently is afraid to make this information available to honourable members. 
The point I want to deal with concerns the fare structure of the domestic airline operators in Australia. Today there is  a  monopoly under the 2-airline policy. whereby TAA and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd are completely protected by this Government to ensure that profits are made. If we look at the profits that these 2 airlines have made over the years we see that it is time that some real competition was introduced into the trade to ensure that the airlines are prepared to make traffic schedules available to people at a fair and reasonable price. When one compares the cost of travel in Australia with the cost of international travel the figure becomes all the more pronounced. For example, a return ticket from Sydney to Perth first class costs $310.20, and to fly second class costs $259.60. Because of the extreme competition in international travel a person can fly from Sydney to London for $420, or on a return flight for $700. Compare those figures under competition with the protected situation that exists today in domestic air travel. Domestic operators are making no attempt whatsoever to provide cheap fares to people. Admittedly they have introduced a number of holiday package tours to places in the Pacific but they have done nothing about the general fare structure. 
When we compare the load factor in Australia with that which exists overseas it is obvious that there is a need for something to be done about fares. For example, the revenue load factor for domestic flights operated by all members of the International Civil Aviation Organisation averaged 54.8 per cent in 1968, 52.3 per cent in 1969, and in 1970 it was 51.6 per cent. Yet for Ansett Airlines in 1964  -  this was Ansett's best year - the load factor was 64.5 per cent; in 1971 it was 62.3 per cent; and in 1970 it was 62.4 per cent TAA has an even better load factor than that. TAA's best percentage for the last 10 years was in 1970 when it was 67.3 per cent. In 1971 it was 65.2 per cent. That was the worst year TAA had over the last 10 years. Load factor governs the fare structure of an airline. When you compare those averages in Australia with the rest of the world's domestic airline operators associated with ICAO - I think there are 127 members - it is pretty clear that there is a case for our domestic airlines to answer. When you compare what has been done by TAA and Ansett with what East- West Airlines is doing to provide a reasonable fare structure it can be seen that the main operators have been arrogant and it is time that this Government or this Parliament told them to get on with the job of reducing fares to attract people and so reduce fares. 
Let me compare the fare structure of the 2 main operators with that of East- West Airlines. East-West Airlines has for some considerable time been giving a 33 per cent discount to people under 26 years of age. There is only one proviso attached to that discount; if the seating capacity of the aircraft is filled the person claiming the discount loses his entitlement to a seat and must wait until the next flight. This is standard practice throughout the world but it does not apply in our 2 domestic airlines. It is time that they did something about this to attract young people into airline travel. Young people want to travel but the facilities are not available at a reasonable price for them to do so. The East-West Airlines facilities are limited only to a very minute section of Australia whereas the main domestic operators operate throughout the Commonwealth. The domestic operators have an attractive proposition which they give to overseas visitors to Australia, that is, the 'Explore Australia' air fare. It is exclusively for overseas visitors. They may travel anywhere on the East-West network for 21 days for a payment of $63. Some years ago when I was in the United States of America I bought a bus ticket for $99 and I able to travel for 99 days. This sort of thing encourages a person to travel as a tourist and it encourages a person who is in a country to have a look at the place. This is what we should be doing in Australia to attract tourists to this country. 
East-West Airlines provides another concession which is a 20 per cent reduction on fares for people travelling in the period between Christmas and New Year's Day. No attempt has been made by TAA or ATI to introduce off peak fares. I know that TAA is interested in the 'under 26' concession but unfortunately the private enterprise airline, whose attitude is There is the price, there is the fare, take it or leave it', is not prepared to introduce cheap fares to attract people to travel in the middle of the day instead of at peak periods at the beginning or end of the day. This is the way to encourage people to travel on our aircraft which are flying with about a 25 per cent load factor at non-peak periods. They are overloading the peak periods. If our domestic operators were prepared to offer attractions such as I have mentioned I am certain that it would be in the interests of airline traffic as a whole and that it would encourage people to use airlines when they go on their holidays. This is becoming more evident today. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: When did he become aware that the Australian Gas Light Company required a large quantity of steel pipe to convey gas to New South Wales? Did AGL delay a decision on this matter beyond the date when the South Australian gas fields had been proved? Was Australian industry given adequate specifications to allow an effective tender to be submitted? What action has the Government taken to clarify the array of claims and counter-claims on this matter and to ensure that a decision is made in the national interest? 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by the Commonwealth not exceeding the equivalent of $US25m - $A21m - to assist Qantas Airways Ltd in financing the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 jet aircraft, together with spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately $US29m or $A24m. 
The Opposition is not satisfied with the terms of this Bill. For that reason I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of the opinion that the passage of this Bil] should be delayed until (1) firm arrangements are made for substantial coproduction procedures for imported aircraft, (2)  a  select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management and (3) the terms of (he loan agreement are set forth in  a  schedule to the Bill'. 
I will deal with this Bill to some degree in reverse from the way in which I have presented the amendment. The Opposition is concerned at the reason for bringing this measure before the House. The aircraft to be purchased is not due for delivery until March 1974. Yet here we are in September 1972 and a Bill has been presented to the House to authorise the borrowing of this money. There is no firm proposal by the Minister as to where the money is to be borrowed. All that we can ascertain from the ministerial statement is that the. Government is making an application to the American Export Import Bank to advance a certain amount of money, which will represent approximately half of the total cost of the aircraft - that is, assuming that the. money is available from the Export Import Bank. There is no indication of where the rest of the money will come from. Indeed, in other words, a hypothetical proposition is being submitted to this Parliament and we are being asked to approve of it. 
We on this side of the House are not satisfied with this haphazard and loose, manner of bringing this measure before the Parliament. There does not appear to be any reason for it. I am wondering what the Government is up to. What is behind the whole thing? Is it because the Government knows it will be defeated in a few months when the election is held and therefore it wants to commit the Parliament by way of this legislation to something with which it is afraid the Opposition may not be prepared to proceed? I should like the Minister, when he replies, to give reasons for the urgency of this measure. Why has this legislation to be brought forward almost 18 months before delivery of the aircraft will be taken? Another aspect is that the last time that we had a Loan (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill before the House, in November 1971, the Government gave assurances that certain objectionable clauses in previous agreements would not be. written into further agreements, including the one about Qantas being debarred from flying the aircraft into any communist country. Yet the Americans fly their own aircraft into these countries. 
A letter was presented to the Parliament by the Minister which was to be forwarded to the United States. It was a letter of intent by Qantas. The heading in Hansard was: 
Text of Letter to be given by Qantas on Use of Aircraft. 
The quote continued: 
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated as of . . . 1971 between the Commonwealth of Australia, The Boeing Company and Eximbank made for the purpose of enabling the Commonwealth to make available to Qantas amounts required by Qantas to assist in financing the purchase of one Boeing 747 aircraft, spare parts and related equipment and services, together called in the Loan Agreement 'the Equipment'. 
It is not the present intention of Qantas that any of the Equipment is either: 
principally for use in, or sale or lease to any communist country as defined in Section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act 1961 as amended to the date hereof; or 
principally for use by or in any nation engaged in armed conflict, declared or otherwise, with the Armed Forces of the US. 
This statement appears at page 2941 of Hansard of 3rd November 1971. I should like an assurance from the Minister that a letter will be despatched to the United States setting out Qantas's position and that we will not be bound by previous agreements whereby Qantas could not fly the aircraft concerned to any communist country. 
In each of the last 2 Loan (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bills- on 23rd April 1971 and 7 October 1971 - was a schedule which set out the whole terms and conditions in detail of the loans between Qantas, the Eximbank, Boeing and the people from whom the money was to be borrowed. But on this occasion we have a flimsy and very patchy document which gives us no factual information as to the way the money is to be borrowed, conditions of repayment, interest charges or anything else. As I said in my opening remarks, this is a most unsatisfactory method of bringing legisla tion of this type to the Parliament, asking Parliament to give the. Government a blank cheque up to a figure of $US25m. The whole situation is unsatisfactory. This is to be one of the final pieces of legislation by the Government. At least the next government will be in a position to bring down positive legislation for the endorsement of Parliament and not Bills presented in this manner. 
The other terms of the amendment call for a select commitee to inquire into the affairs of Qantas. The Parliament is now being asked to pass a Bill involving some $A21m. Where is Qantas's report for the last 12 months? Rumours are rife that Qantas, in the 12 months of operation ended 30th March of this year - one cannot take much notice of rumour, but it is commonly accepted - has lost a considerable amount of money. The figures that have been mentioned for this loss have been between $5m and $6m. Twelve months ago, on 29th September 1971, Qantas's annual report was presented to this Parliament prior to the Parliament's being asked to permit Qantas to borrow money under one of the Bills to which I have just referred. Why has not Qantas's annual report been presented to this Parliament for consideration when dealing with this Bill so that we are in a position to know all the details or some of the details at least of its operations? 
The Minister has that report at his disposal. Why have not other honourable members in this place likewise been paid the courtesy of being given a copy of it? It has been printed. Surely it should be available to honourable members. When an important measure such as this is presented we should have all the facts and factors and not have to rely on Press reports of alleged rumours and so on as to what is taking place in this industry. We have no factual information as to the operations of Qantas - whether they are on the up grade or are continuing to deteriorate. It is obvious that in 1971-72 substantial losses were incurred by Qantas. We should have this information available to us. This is another one of the reasons why the Opposition opposes this Bill and why we are moving for its deferment until we can get this factual information. 
I wrote asking for details of the general operations of Qantas. We are buying an additional Boeing 747 aircraft costing $29m. Is there a need for it? Does the present loading justify the purchase of this additional ai-craft? What does Qantas propose doing with the Boeing 707 aircraft that are already in its possession? Does it propose selling the aircraft? If so, what are the conditions under which the aircraft will be sold? Is it a reasonable world market at the present time in which to sell Boeing 707s? Rumours say it is a very good time because allegedly there is a shortage of Boeing 707 aircraft of the type that Qantas owns at present. Why does not the Minister give us this information? Why does not the second reading speech contain factual information on the operations of Qantas? What is the position regarding these aircraft? 
I have figures which disclose, for example, that on the Australia to London via Singapore route the seat factor since 1967-68 has dropped from 59.6 per cent to 51.8 per cent in 1971-72. Naturally, the figures for 1972-73 are not yet available. On the Australia to London via Hong Kong route the seat factor declined from 61.2 per cent in 1967-68 to 54.2 per cent in 1971-72. I am really concerned about the Australia to London via San Francisco route on which the seat factor declined from 49.8 per cent in 1967-68 to 40 per cent in 1971-72. According to Press reports the decline is continuing. On the Australia to London via Mexico route the decline over the some period is from 50.7 per cent to 49.9 per cent; on the Australia to Hong Kong and Tokyo route the decline is from 51.8 per cent to 45.2 per cent. On the Australia to Johannesburg service the seat factor rose from 47.5 per cent to 60.1 then declined to 48.7 per cent in 1971-72. 
When studying these figures one important factor to be borne in mind is that, as I have said, in 1969-70 on the Australia to Johannesburg route Qantas had a load factor of 60.1 per cent. It rose to that figure from 1967-68 and then dropped to 48.7 per cent, the lowest figure for the last 4 years. On the Australia to New Zealand service Qantas has a very good load factor average, and also on the service to New Caledonia. The figures are also good for the run from Sydney to Norfolk Island and Auckland. The figures are particularly good for those runs for the simple reason that Qantas and to some degree Air New Zealand have a monopoly on the operation. They have it between them and they run enough scheduled flights to cater for the traffic available. This is common sense. This is the way in which an airline should operate and not with the present cut-throat methods that are being employed on the Australia to San Francisco run. I believe that on that run Qantas is losing a considerable amount of money. 
In November last year when we were discussing a similar Bill the Opposition was critical of the manner in which Qantas was conducting its business and we are still critical. The load factor on the Australia to United Kingdom route has been lifted considerably as figures in my possession disclose. For example, in June 1972 there was a seat factor of 70.8 per cent, compared with 56.3 per cent in June 1971. This rise indicates just what is taking place in improving load factors through the introduction of cheap tourist class fares. No positive statement has been made by the Minister or the management of Qantas about the load factor on the Australia to Europe run since the introduction of the cheap air fare of $700 return or $420 single fare to Europe. What is the load factor? Once again one can only judge by rumours in the industry which indicate that the load factor is about 75 per cent. Qantas had a load factor in June this year of 70.8 per cent, but is that a profitable operation? Why do not the Government and the Minister give us this information? 
If we had the latest annual report of Qantas before us when debating this Bill we might be able to elicit that information. We will continue to criticise the Government because we do not have the latest information which should be available to honourable members. On the Australia to London via Singapore route following the introduction of cheap fares the seat factor rose from 58.6 per cent to 74.9 per cent but that is where the real problem starts. The cut throat competition is felt on the Australia to London via San Francisco route, particularly from Pan American and American Airlines. These two airlines together with Qantas provide what I consider to be shocking over-capacity. On that run in June  1972  the seat factor was  35.6  per cent as against  41.7  per cent in the previous June. In May  1972  the seat factor was  32.3  per cent, as against  38.5  per cent in May last year. In April this year it was  29.9  per cent as against  31.3  per cent in April last year. 
If the break even point is a load factor of  50  per cent, or whatever figure close to that it may be, honourable members are given an indication of the amount of money being lost by Qantas particularly on the Pacific route. We have no positive figures on the seat factor since the introduction of cheap fares on the Australia to Europe route. The Government and the Minister should- be explaining these matters to honourable members so that we can have some information to guide us. In addition to introducing cheap fares on the Australia to Europe route Qantas recently introduced a new system of cheap fare tourist travel between Australia and Singapore. This has been an overwhelming success. We are led to believe that Qantas is fully booked out on this service for months in advance but I am concerned that all of this traffic is being generated in Australia. Practically no traffic is being generated in Singapore or Malaysia. 
As a result of the new scheme Qantas has to share the business with Singapore Airlines. We create the traffic, we provide the customers, but we have to give up half of the business. Is this fair and reasonable? Is this system of operating a reasonable one? Honourable members will be looking at these points very closely in the not too distant future. I am also concerned about the way Qantas is operating on its round the world flights from Australia to London, London to the east coast of the United States, to the west coast of the United States and down through the Pacific. I believe that Qantas is placed at a decided disadvantage and it is time that it considered seriously terminating its round the world ideas, discontinuing the North Atlantic run from London to New York and also the cross-America run, and flying from Australia to the United States west coast. In this way I believe that traffic would be restricted completely to Qantas and the  2  American operators - Pan Am and American Airlines. This would cut out some of the existing competition. I believe this is something that Qantas has to consider seriously, because under the reciprocal agreement if Qantas flies from London to Australia via America the British Overseas Airways Corporation and other operators are entitled to come down this run. Some most unfavourable reports have come to me about our pool partner, BOAC. I have been told that when Qantas has arranged for people to book seats on a Qantas flight from America, where BOAC is our agent, they have been unable to do so. They have been told that Qantas was fully booked out but that they could get seats on BOAC. These are just some of the things that the industry is talking about and on which I would like some pretty clear statements from the Minister. 
I am concerned also about flight loads and reciprocal agreements. If we continue this round the world operation, what right have the American operators - Pan Am and American Airlines - to operate out of Australia to Hong Kong and Thailand? If Qantas does not fly from Australia to the west coast of the United States, then to the east coast of the United States and from there to London, other international operators likewise have no rights in Australia to fly from America to the east coast of Australia and from there on to Hong Kong or to Thailand. The airline business is a ruthless business, and I believe that if Qantas is to survive these things have to be examined. They should be examined by members of this Parliament so that at least we know what is happening and what is going on in the airline business. These are the things that are important. 
There are other fields that should be closely examined and that only a parliamentary select committee can fully investigate, inquire into and report to the Parliament on. There has been a reciprocal agreement between Australia and Singapore. Now Ceylon has come into it. Air Ceylon has come into the field and is now demanding reciprocal rights with Qantas. For the number of times that Qantas lands at Colombo, Air Ceylon wants the right to make flights to Australia. That does not mean that it will fly simply from Ceylon to Australia. It means that it will fly to London and the other stops through to Australia. I have been told that each exchange of flight granted represents a loss of Sim to Qantas. So if Qantas is to stay in international operations these are the things it has to be looking at. I know that I will be asked how Qantas will avoid operating through Singapore and Ceylon. It could possibly go through Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok or Hong Kong, but al] these places have problems for Qantas under the reciprocal agreements. 
I have discussed this point with people in the airline industry and they have assured me that Cocos Island is a definite proposition as far as Qantas is concerned. It is a Territory of the Commonwealth. If Qantas were to operate through Cocos Island it would eliminate some of the flights through Singapore, Ceylon, Bangkok and Hong Kong, having in mind that much of Qantas's traffic today is under the cheap air fare arrangement. Therefore by spending, I believe, approximately $l2m on lengthening and strengthening the strip that is already in existence at Cocos it would be a proposition to fly Boeing 707s and Boeing 747s regularly through Cocos on to Bahrein or Athens and from there on to London. This proposition has been considered by people in the airline industry. From a Qantas point of view, with so many of our passengers now committed to a one stop arrangement, there is no reason in the world why the Government cannot extend its idea about making Cocos Island a base for Australian naval operations and Air Force operations to include Qantas operations also. If it wants to make it a complete tourist operation, let it put a tourist hotel there and provide facilities for duty free selling as we already have at all Australian international airports and as exist in other countries. This is one of the attractions. Let us face the facts of life. Duty free shopping is one of the major attractions of Singapore. These are the things Qantas should be doing. 
The present tourist promotion activities of Qantas are designed to take people out of Australia. I do not know of any proposition by Qantas to bring people into Australia. After all we have a tourist industry here. We have chains of hotels, motels and the like which operate at the many and varied tourist attractions in Australia. I would hope to see Qantas in the not too distant future, by arrangement with overseas travel agents, bringing people from other countries to Australia. I mentioned that Qantas should terminate its Pacific operations on the west coast of America. When it terminates it operations there I believe it could make a deal with one of the many domestic operators in the United States. I do not want to name any airline in particular, but there are a number of domestic airlines in the United States that operate from coast to coast. I believe it would be an even better proposition if, instead of flying from San Francisco to New York and from there on to London, Qantas could make a deal with one of the internal domestic United States operators, preferably one which flies on to London. This would be a decided advantage to Qantas. 
The same thing can be said about travel agents. I believe Qantas should be negotiating for partnership arrangements in some of the overseas travel agencies so at least these agencies will be working not only in the interests of their own domestic airlines but also in the interests of providing and finding business for Qantas. These are things that should be done. I would like some information. I would like some reasons from the Minister as to why these things have not been done in the past and why they cannot be done in the future. I put forward these ideas on behalf of the Opposition because we are totally dissatisfied with the manner in which Qantas is being operated today by this Government. 
Large numbers of staff have recently been dismissed by the airline after a great expansion programme. Men who were encouraged to leave the Royal Australian Air Force and come to work for Qantas have been laid off. People were encouraged to come here from overseas, and when they got here they were sacked. Qantas is expanding its fleet and we have no explanation about why it should be expanded. I have outlined some of the things that should be done in the operations of this airline. We accept it as a great airline. We of the Opposition want to see it prosper and expand and operate in the best interests of this country and in the interests of the airline staff. 
We are concerned also by the recent appointments to the Qantas board. When the Government could have taken the opportunity of bringing on to that board men who have a great knowledge of the industry because, they have worked in it, not one trade unionist was appointed to that board. 
The trade unions are represented on other boards. At least the Liberal Government in New South Wales had the decency to put one trade unionist on the board of the State dockyard in Newcastle. Of the 8 board members of Qantas not one represents the trade union movement. The men on the board might have been good men in their own fields, but with the exception of Caplain Ritchie and the recent appointee  Sir Donald  Anderson, they have no real knowledge of airline operations. I have, said quite a deal outside this place about the appointment of  Sir Donald  Anderson. I do not agree with this appointment. He should make up his mind whether he wants to be the Director-General of Civil Aviation or a board member of Qantas.  Sir Donald  Anderson and Captain Ritchie are the only 2 on the board who have any knowledge of airline operations. No other member of the board has any knowledge of transport operations, tourist activities, running motels and hotels and all the things which are so important to an international airline today that wants to extend its business to encourage people to come to this country to provide revenue for our own tourist industry instead of doing what Qantas is doing at the moment - encouraging Australians to go overseas and spend their money on overseas tourist attractions. We need a Minister who is prepared to help not only the airline but also the Australian tourist industry. For the reasons I have stated the Opposition has moved an amendment and asks the House to support it. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What ships are engaged In the carriage of alumina between (a) Gladstone and Bell Bay and (b) Gladstone and Bluff. 
Has he received any request from Comalco to replace the ships in this trade with foreign owned and manned ships. 
asked the -Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by the Department of Transport of Papua New Guinea. 
How many of them are indigenes. 
Hew many (a) expatriates and (b) indigenes are employed in the (i) first division and (ii) various classes of the second' division. 
This is an incident that must be cleared up immediately. It has been allowed to drag on far too long. There are too many blanks in what has happened concerning the purchase of these aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd, and these blanks have been allowed to remain unexplained by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  even when he held the position of Minister for External Affairs. I want to draw attention to a number of points. First and foremost of these is the favourable treatment that has been accorded this airline known as Jetair. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that in this country we have what is called a 2-airline system, under which it has been absolutely impossible for any other airline to obtain a licence to operate and it has been impossible for prospective operators to obtain aircraft to carry on the operations of an airline. Yet this company, Jetair Australia Ltd, succeeded in getting 3 DC3 aircraft and 2 Bristol freighters. In normal circumstances, when aircraft of this type are purchased one of the conditions is that they be taken out of the country. In this case the company was allowed to retain the aircraft in Australia, to refurbish them and to use them as part of an airline operation. The company was granted routes under the civil aviation bylaw regulations. At one stage the company was granted rights to operate flights between Adelaide and Melbourne, Melbourne and Sydney, Sydney and Brisbane and Brisbane and Rockhampton. I bring these matters forward in order to draw attention to the very preferable treatment that has been meted out to this company. 
Let us examine the steps that have been taken and the haste with which they have been taken. I understand that the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr William  McMahon, received a memorandum from the Secretary of the Department,  Sir Keith  Waller, on 31st December 1970- New Year's Eve. With great haste the Minister accepted and signed the approval for it on 1st January 1971 - New Year's Day. What great haste! 
Mir CHARLES JONES - As the honourable member for Cunningham says, it was indeed a New Year's gift, when the number of regulations that have been breached in relation to this matter is considered. I should like to read a letter from  Sir Kenneth  Anderson who was then the Minister for Supply, dated 12th February 1971. He said: 
I refer to the proposed contract with Jetair Australia Lid for the supply of 6 DC3 aircraft. 
As discussed by officers of our Department, it is unfortunate that normal purchasing procedures were not followed; however, in the light of the commitment by your Department- 
Not the Department of Supply, the Department of the right honourable gentleman; the Department of Foreign Affairs - 
I have approved that the Contract Board may place the necessary confirming order with the Company. 
You will understand that in the circumstances any approach by news media or any question in Parliament in relation to the arrangement could most appropriately be dealt with by you or on your behalf. 
Yours sincerely, 
Yes. During question time the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  had a document relating to the financial affairs of Jetair Australia Ltd incorporated in Hansard and challenged the veracity of my statements in this place last Thursday and again on the This Day Tonight' television programme last Thursday night. I have not had the opportunity of reading in its entirety the statement that the Minister- has tabled, but he certainly challenged my figure as to the book value of the 6 DC3 aircraft concerned when I stated that on my information they were valued at only, $100,000 and not $275,000 which the Government paid for them. I wish to cite the; following facts: Brins' accounts for the 12 months to 30th June 1971 were not made public until 9 months later - 3 months after the statutory limit imposed by the Companies Act. This is within the period- 
I do not wish to debate the issue and I do not wish to submit any further political views on the subject. I want to bring to the attention of this Parliament certain information. The Minister had his say and I think I am entitled to have mine. 
I am claiming that my figures were right and that the figures which the Minister has used to challenge my veracity are not factual. I will continue from the point at which I was interrupted. After getting permission from the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission to submit late accounts the Brins company finally produced accounts showing that the company and its subsidiaries had lost $lm in the year. Among the items in the profit and loss account was a write-off of $912,579 through a loss on the sale of aircraft. However, the balance sheet showed that at 30th June 1970 aircraft had been valued at $107,881 less accumulated depreciation of $8,112, leaving the value of the aircraft at $99,769. If the aircraft of the Brins company were valued at $99,769 at 30th June 1970 and the company had incurred a loss of $912,597 on the sale of aircraft in the year ended 30th June 1971, something very odd must have happened between the 2 dates. The company could have bought aircraft during 1970-71 and could then have resold them at a heavy loss. However, the notes to the published accounts, which are quite extensive, give no indication of any such transaction. The Brins company was dominated by Barton family interests and was eventually taken over late in 1971 by Murumba Minerals. 
I will terminate on that point, but perhaps I should add that Murumba Minerals was also controlled by the Barton family. Over the last few years Hungerford Spooner and Kirkhope, a firm of Sydney auditors, who were auditors of the company in  Mr Alexander  Barton's group have qualified the annual accounts. I understand that the qualification extends to questioning the valuation of assets and the recoverability of debts. 
With due regard to your ruling- 
On the point of order that was taken. With due regard to your ruling, the information, which was incorporated in Hansard  this morning by the Minister for Foreign Affairs purported to have come from one Barton and was allegedly authentic information regarding the financial affairs of the company. Surely in my personal explanation I have the right to set out at least some qf the facts, including a statement by the auditors of the company, and the right to challenge the veracity of the information which was tabled by the minister. 
I accept your ruling,  Sir. I  conclude my remarks by saying that the firm of auditors has since resigned. I understand that it is a reputable firm of auditors in Sydney. 
I will make no further reference to the auditors. I have concluded my little piece on that subject. As to the veracity of  Mr Barton- 
The House is indebted to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for at least tabling the report at this late stage. I regret the lack of courtesy by the Minister in not making this report available at least to members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety so that at least we could have had the opportunity of reading it over the week-end. 
The Minister received it this morning? 
 I  accept the Minister's statement that he received the document this morning.  I  received it less than half an hour before the House sat and  I  have had very little opportunity of studying the report bearing in mind what happened during question time and the period immediately after. But in the short time that has been available to me to study the report one aspect that concerns me is the fact that it would appear that the Government has not made any decision on the  3  recommendations about which the Committee uses the words: Three important new initiatives on the part of the Commonwealth Government are strongly recommended'. 
For example, the Committee has recommended the initial payment - not that the amount is a great one - of $5m a year on a  $1  for  $1  basis to the States to provide financial assistance for low cost traffic management and to overcome some of the serious problems associated with traffic problems.  I  think that this is a matter which, even as a temporary measure, could be introduced by the Government. It would receive the unanimous support of both this House and the Senate. The report clearly indicates the failure of the Government over the years to do something positive about the important problem of road safety today, the number of people who are being continually killed on the roads, the number who are being maimed for life, the huge cost in terms of the loss of life and the loss of time so far as concerns the ability of people to work, the various forms of compensation payments which are made by way of third party insurance, the cost to the nation of people who are in receipt of invalid pensions as a result of injury and the cost of repairing or replacing motor vehicles involved in accidents. The report highlights what the Government has not done over the years and why action along these lines should have been taken much sooner than it has. 
Various points contained in the report could be cleared up quite easily. Take for example the number of people who are killed in motor cycle accidents. The recommendation of the report in this respect is one that should be examined very closely by the Commonwealth and State governments involved so that something can be done about it. Action in regard to safety helmets and the like should have been tackled by the States much sooner than has been the case. The group recommends that action be taken to bring the standard of helmet worn by motor cyclists to a standard comparable to that which applies overseas. The requirements in regard to the wearing of coloured clothing and matters of this type which are set out in the report can be, and should be, dealt with immediately because they are things on which everyone is in agreement. Of course, the Government should have given the lead years ago in the field of the replanning of roads. This is not a field about which something has not been known. The Minister's portfolio incorporates roads and he should have been using the resources available to him through the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to make and bring up recommendations as to what financial assistance should be provided to improve town planning, to improve blind intersections and to do something positive. The same thing can be said in relation to railway crossings. The number of people  killed at railway crossings is an utter disgrace to any parliament and it is a matter for which this Government must accept full responsibility. 
I reaffirm my regret that we were not given an opportunity to examine this report in greater detail and at greater length to enable us to have a reasonable debate on it and thus examine some of the points raised in it. From what I have already read there are a number of things with which I do not agree but at this stage I do not have time to go into them. One relates to the recommendation to retain the give way to the right rule. I do not agree with that decision. This is a controversial question. Australia is one of the few developed countries with ahigh traffic density which still retains what I consider to be this old fashioned rule. Other countries have found that it is more practical to have a priority road system with give way signs, and I think this is preferable to retaining the give way to the right rule. I do not propose to debate this at this time because one could talk for an hour on the merits of the proposition. 
I hope that the Minister will implement even at this stage some of the recommendations which can easily be put into effect. There is nothing to prevent the Government from providingthe States with financial assistance amounting to$5m on a $1 for $1 basis. However, I consider that sum of money to be totally inadequate. At least something positive could be done in regard to uniform traffic laws and regulations throughout the Commonwealth. We have had any amount of evidence which shows that people are involved in motor vehicle accidents for one simple reason, that is, that they do not understand the traffic rules which apply in the State in which they are holidaying. Numerous accidents are unnecessarily caused because of a lack of uniform traffic regulations as between the States. I am dealing now only with the safety aspect and not in any way with the cost to the community as a whole in relation to the loading of trucks and the like. 
Whilst we welcome the report at this late hour we think much more should have been done. I note that the report is dated September 1972. I do not know how long it has taken to get the report printed. I accept the Minister's assurance that he received it only today, but at least he had with it a document drawing his attention to all the key points in regard to what should be done. I hope that those recommendations which can easily be implemented will be put into effect quickly. 
The confusion continues. That is the only way one can describe the operations being indulged in by the Government at the present moment. I want to deal with one small section of the statement that the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has just made, that is, his second statement. The remainder will be dealt with by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  In his statement the Minister said: 
The House will see from the documents which 
I will tablein a moment that the Department of 
Civil Aviation played no part at all in the purchase by the Department of Foreign Affairs of the DC3 aircraft. . . . 
In paragraph 10 of the remarkable memorandum of 31st December 1970 by  Sir Kenneth  Bailey to the Minister for Foreign Affairs he said: 
The DCA has been consulted and is in agreement with this Department purchasing the Jetair fleet for aid purposes. 
All I wish is that the Government, the Ministers and their staff would read what they have said about this matter at different times and let us at least get some continuity of facts and some truth in what has been presented to this Parliament instead of an attempt to confuse and to cover up an illegal operation that was carried out by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  As I said, the honourable member for Blaxland will deal with this matter. 
The papers that have been tabled do not provide the information which the Opposition requires and to which this Parliament is entitled. I made a statement that Jetair Australia Ltd had received preferential and favourable treatment by this Government. What we want tabled are all the papers concerning the whole pattern of operation by this airline, the way it was formed, the way its applications for licence were submitted, the details of its application for import of aircraft, details of the enforcement of the 2-airline policy, and complaints which were lodged by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia about what they considered were breaches of the 2-airline policy and their feeling that the Government was placing the whole scheme in jeopardy. This is important because it will substantiate the statement which has been made in this place that Jetair has received very favourable treatment from the Government. These are some of the facts which the Government is endeavouring to cover up by saying that preferential treatment has not been handed out to this company. 
I made a statement this morning regarding the book value of the aircraft purchased from Jetair. The Minister tabled a letter, a copy of which I have in my possession, in which  Mr Alexander  Barton stated: 
As requested by officers of the Foreign Affairs Department I am setting out below the costs of the Jetair group of each of the 6 DC3 aircraft. 
A table which sets out the particulars of that was included in the letter. The letter went on to state that the 6 DC3s were owned not by Jetair Australia Ltd but another company in the Jetair group and in fact were leased to Jetair. Yet if we examine the contract acceptance and purchase order which was in the papers previously tabled we find that the letter is addressed to the Manager, Jetair Australia Ltd, Tower Building, Australia Square, Sydney. It refers to the sale of 6 aircraft, to their licence registration numbers, which coincide with the numbers of the aircraft referred to in the letter which was tabled this morning, and also to the sale price of $275,000. Who is telling the truth? From whom did the Government purchase the aircraft? Was it from Jetair Australia Ltd? In his letter,  Mr Alexander  Barton states that Jetair did not own the aircraft; that they were owned by someone else. The whole thing is just a confusion of facts as to who did own the aircraft. This is typical of all the ramifications of companies owned by Barton and company. 
Another interesting little piece of information concerning Jetair relates to the transfer of shares. It has been shown that on 21st January 1970 Jetair issued 4,551,000 50c shares to Air Sales and Parts Pty Ltd in exchange for 3 aircraft valued at $60,050 and 223,333 shares in Western Air Navigation Ltd. To what airCraft did this transaction refer? Was it 3 of the 6 DC3 aircraft referred to in the letter that was tabled this morning by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)?  Are these the aircraft that were exchanged for $60,000? These are facts that only the tabling of the entire Department of Civil Aviation file can establish. This would show who owned the aircraft and all the relevant information associated with them. This is what the Opposition wants tabled in this p'ace. 
I should now like to refer to  Mr Barton's  letter which was tabled this morning. 1 shall read the entire paragraph; I do not think I should take it out of context. It states: 
I might add that  1  have been disturbed at the incorrect statements made under Parliamentary privilege regarding the financial position of Jetair. These statements are totally untrue. The establishment costs of the airline which were anticipated to be substantial, were properly provided for, prior to the commencement of operations, and Jetair is, and always was, in a sound financial position. 
I have a copy of the balance sheet of Jetair for the year ended 30th June 1970 which discloses a loss on airline operations of S536.150. That is not a bad sort of profitable operation! Thank God I am not running a business which loses over $500,000 and which I claim has always been a profitable operation. Jetair got out of trouble, in some way and other, by profit on share trading of $256,055 and profit on sale of aircraft of $292,980. There is so much confusion on these figures that it is difficult to follow the whole operation. 
I made reference this morning to a statement on the financial trading of this company which disclosed that its book value of aircraft was $99,769. The Minister for Foreign Affairs questioned whether they were the 6 DC3 aircraft purchased by the Government. All I want to know - this information is not available to honourable members - is whether they were not the 6 DC3 aircraft because, on information which I have been able to obtain from various people, they were the 6 DC3 aircraft in question and, in fact, from early in December, when the company endeavoured to sell these aircraft, that was the price it was asking for the aircraft and it could not get any takers. To me, the situation is quite clear. It is like so many of the matters which have been transacted by the Barton family over the years. After reading of the machinations of the companies that have been set up by these people, it astounds me that a man such as  Sir Reginald  Swartz, who is to retire at the end of this Parliament, at this late stage of his political career has become tangled up with a stinking thing like Jetair just to try to give some respectability to what has been carried on by the Prime Minister. Every rule in the book has been broken. Public servants are being forced into the position of coming up with answers to cover up the wrongdoings of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, who boasts of the fact that he has had 21 years in this place as a Minister. As I said, he broke every rule in the book and now he is trying to get people to cover up for him. 
Let us have a look at some of the statements which have been made about  Mr 
Barton, with whom he has been associated. I refer to the Hansard report of the proceedings of the New South Wales Parliament of 25th February 1969, which relates to an Equity Court case which lasted for some 55 days and which was heard by  Mr Justice  Street who delivered the judgment on 19th December 1968. In the judgment  Mr Justice  Street made statements such as this: 
In some important respects  Mr Barton's  evidence is at variance with proved facts. ... I have grave doubts about the reliability of  Mr Barton's  evidence on that part of the case which concerns Detective Sergeant Wild and Detective Constable Follington 
He went on to say: 
There are many other points in the mass of evidence casting doubt upon the reliability of  Mr Barton's  testimony. 
This is the man whom the Minister for Foreign Affairs - himself an eminent member of the Bar - came into this place this morning to use as his authority to bolster up the Government's case. The Government is certainly relying on weak reeds. I refer further to the operations of this company. This is something else that should be presented to the Parliament in the DCA file. Is it not a fact that, after this sale took place, a holding order was placed on the money to be paid to Jetair by DCA and the Postmaster-General's Department for unpaid debts in excess of $50,000? In other words, even the Government could not get its money from this company. These facts are included in the DCA file and it is obvious why the Government will not present it to this Parliament. It does not want this information brought out. 
In regard to the employees of this company, when it approached various pilots throughout Australia to go and work for the company, it gave them glowing reports of what it was going to do and what  &lt;ort  of money it would be able to pay them. Some of them were even offered $13,000 a year to go and work for this company. These people left good, substantial positions to work for Jetair. Some of them received as low as $5,000 a year and, in fact, some of the pilots left the company's employ without ever being paid. This is the type of firm in respect of which this Government and this Prime Minister, when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, broke every rule in the book. This is what the Government must overcome and this is what the Government is trying to suppress by not tabling reports. Everything that the Opposition has been able to get from the Government, whether it be in the Senate or in this place, has been dragged from the Government. The Government has been reluctant to answer questions. It took the Minister for Foreign Affairs 2 days to answer simple questions that were directed to him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and the answer which was given actually said nothing and only confirmed the irregularities that had already taken place. 
I return to the original matter of the indecent haste with which these aircraft were purchased and the fact that, after they were purchased, they lay in the possession of the Government for the best part of 9 months before the first aircraft was delivered. The first 2 aircraft were delivered to Nepal on 18th August 1971 after the Government had had them in its possession for ali that time. The last one was finally delivered on 5th December 1971. Taken all round, the whole incident is unsatisfactory. The Government is trying to suppress information, trying to cover up the facts of what transpired. The smell of this affair can be dissipated only by the Government's producing all the files that were asked for by the Leader of the Opposition last Thursday, instead of presenting 2 papers which are in conflict with statements that have already been made. 

 Sir REGINALD SWARTZ (Darling Downs - Minister for National Development) - by leave  -  I was surprised by the comments of my friend the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  He referred to my being implicated in some way and from his remarks it appeared that 1 had not measured up to a standard of which he would approve. He knows that that is entirely incorrect. There is no need for me to indicate in this House that no matter what he suggests, irrespective of whether it is of the nature he indicated, he is incorrect. Even my friends of the Opposition would agree that I would be the last person to be associated with a matter of that type. I am surprised and regretful that the honourable member for Newcastle raised the matter in the light of a personal basis. 
I would like to make it quite clear to the House that the duty I undertake is to represent the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this House. As part of that duty I have tabled, at the request of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  documents and papers from the files of the Department of Civil Aviation which relate to the matter under discussions. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Newcastle indicate that the papers that have been tabled do not provide the detail that he required because, as yet, 1 have not seen him look at those papers. The honourable member rose to speak immediately after ] tabled the documents. The honourable member for Newcastle would be misleading not only the House but also the public if he indicated that he knew the contents of the documents and their relativity to the points he has raised. 
Two lots of papers have been tabled, including the 3 papers relating to the purchase of the DC3 aircraft. They are the only 3 papers that relate to this matter in the files of the Department of Civil Aviation. I indicated quite clearly the limited reference and responsibility of the Department of Civil Aviation in this field. The papers which have been tabled have been copied from the files of the Department of Civil Aviation and I am sure that the honourable member will study them later. The second and major group of papers that 1 tabled relate to the sale of 2 Royal Australian Air Force Viscount aircraft which were specially asked for by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  took the step of indicating to the House and promising to the Leader of the Opposition that any papers in the files of the Department of Civil Aviation relating, I repeat, to the ownership, licensing and exemption of the Viscount aircraft acquired by Jetair would be tabled. 
We went through the files very carefully. The Minister for Civil Aviation, the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation and officers of the Department spent a considerable amount of time going through the files. We now have photocopies of all the papers that we could find in the files of the 
Department of Civil Aviation relating to the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I tabled those documents a short time ago. I would like to make it clear again that the honourable member for Newcastle in his speech referred to me and the Department of Civil Aviation in a way that brought me and the Department into this field. He knows the limited degree of that involvement. He referred to the documents as though he had inspected them, as though he had had an opportunity to peruse them carefully. He complained because some information had not been made available in the documents, principally in the documents relating to the sale of the 2 Viscount aircraft. I can suggest only that the honourable member for Newcastle did not know what is in those documents as he had not in fact seen them at that stage. 
I took it from your summary. 
I understand that another member of the Opposition wishes to speak on this matter. My colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who knows a considerable amount about this subject, will be speaking later in the debate. I want to indicate quite clearly to the House that my only reason for intervention in this debate is to table at the request of the Prime Minister in accordance with an undertaking which he gave to this House documents taken from the files of the Department of Civil Aviation. 1 have no other reason. I have tabled the documents in accordance with the promise to provide as much information as possible. It is an unusual step to take these papers out of the files of the Department and table them in the House as has been done today. It is a most unusual step and one that the Prime Minister has taken to try to satisfy the request of the Leader of the Opposition. 
I think the Prime Minister deserves every credit for giving that undertaking and for arranging for the information to be provided to the House, particularly for the Opposition. For taking this action the Prime Minister deserves credit rather than the criticism to which he has been subjected today by the honourable member for Newcastle. Those are the only comments I wish to make at this time. I conclude by saying that any action I have taken today has been in my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation in this matter. 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
To enter into discussions with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments and any other interested 
Victorian Governments and any other interested State for (a) the acquisition and assumption of responsibility for their railways and (b) the provision of capital investment in urban public transport as recommended by the Bureau of Transport Economics in June 1972. 
Having moved that amendment, one has to examine the finances of the Australian railways system. When one does so, one wonders just how long it will be before this Government does something about railways, what financial assistance it will give to the railways, and just how long the railways system and public transport as a whole can continue to carry this huge financial debt that it carries at the moment. For example, the total Australian railway debt as at 30th June 1971 was $1,79 1.9m. The debt had grown to that figure in the period 1950 to 1971 from $671. 2m. The disturbing fact about this is that in that period 1950 to 1971 the railways had repaid only $230.8m off their debt, and in the same period they paid a total of $992m in interest. This is a financial situation which no-one in any responsible position can allow to continue. For this reason a Labor government will take action, first of all, to open discussions with both the New South Wales and Victorian governments to assume responsibility for their railways. The Premier of New South Wales has made a public statement already that the Commonwealth Government can assume responsibility for the New South Wales Railways. We in the Australian Labor Party accept the offer. 
The former Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, on 28th August 1970 wrote to the then Prime Minister and made an offer to him to hand over the Victorian railway system to be incorporated in the Commonwealth railway system. On 30th April 1971 the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  replied to that correspondence and indicated that this Government was not prepared to assume responsibility for the Victorian railway system. We on this side of the House believe that  Sir Henry  Bolte made the correct move. A Labor government would be prepared to accept that offer and would be prepared to open negotiations immediately to assume that responsibility. 1 believe that only a Commonwealth government has the financial resources to assume responsibility for the debt to which I have already referred and to provide the money to carry out the necessary development, to upgrade the public transport system and to make it more attractive to the public in order to get the people off the roads. That is the only way in which our public transport system can function. 
For example, in the year ended 30th June 1970 the State railways lost $39m on country and interstate passenger services and $19m on suburban passenger services, making a total of $58m. Their freight operations were quite successful and on those they showed a profit of $83m. Taking into consideration interest and loan charges of $94m, one can see that there is a problem in the railways system. I would like to hear what the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has to say about this. When one considers also the fact that twothirds of suburban passenger rolling stock is more than 30 years old and that half of the freight rolling stock is more than 30 years old, there is obviously a case to justify a substantial Commonwealth expenditure in this field. 
Recently at the opening of the WhyallaPort Augusta railway the Minister for Shipping and Transport issued a Press statement. He boasted of the fact that the Commonwealth Government in the 20 years since 1951-52 had outlaid more than $205m by way of grants and loans in order to achieve an adequate standardised network. He went on to say that $40m had been outlaid on other railway projects with the aim of overall national railway extension improvements. Let us compare that figure with the amount made available by the Commonwealth in the same period in relation to roads. Including loans which had to be repaid, the Commonwealth outlaid $245m on railways. In direct grants to the States, which were non-repayable, the Commonwealth outlaid $2,063,667,000 for roads in that same 20-year period. I obtained that figure from the Budget papers. This shows the comparison between the amount of money made available by the Commonwealth for roads and that made available for railways. 
To suggest that the Commonwealth has a responsibility in relation to railways is not something new when one examines the work that is being done in the United States, where recently it was announced that $12 billion will be made available over the next 12  years for  the upgrading of public transport and for improving their railway systems. The West German Government is making money available to 10 of Germany's major cities  on  the basis that 50 per cent will be found by the West German Government, 30 per cent by the State governments and 20 per cent by local government. Let us compare this interest in the national public transport system with the paltry amount this Government is making available to improve our railways. On these figures alone there are adequate grounds to justify the points I have been making. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to deal with the other aspects of public transport, namely buses, trams and that type of transport which is used in the major cities. In the year 1960-61 in the 6 capital cities there were 1,105 million passenger journeys. In the year 1970-71 there were 948 million passenger journeys, a drop of 14.2 per cent. Yet in that same period the population of these cities increased from 5,758,000 to 7,502,000, an increase of 30.3 per cent. However, as I have said, in that same period the usage of public transport declined by 14.2 per cent. As far as the attractiveness of public transport is concerned, the systems today are almost identical with what they were back in 1960-61. One can go back even further than that. As far as urban rail transport is concerned, some of the carriages used are more than 40 years old. In fact, more than two-thirds of the carriages are over 30 years old. In that same period we have seen the fares for both bus and tram transport increase. For example, in 1949 the fare for the first section in New South Wales was 2c; today it is 10c for the first section. That increase is typical of the way in which fares have increased during that period. It is no wonder that people are not interested in travelling on public transport. They will not do so under those conditions and with the unattractive type of transport that is available. 
We on this side of the Committee submit that  it  is the responsibility of the Common- 
Wealth  Government  to  provide money to assist the States. The first method and the best method of assisting the States is by taking over and assuming responsibility for the railway systems and making money available to upgrade public transport. One may ask: 'How will the Government go about it?' The Opposition believes that a commission should be set up similar to the Australian Universities Commission to examine the requirements of the State public transport systems, to determine the methods by which that money will be expended, in what way it will be expended, and the amount that is required. The Government already has the Bureau of Transport Economics operating. It has the capacity and the staff to carry out this type of research and then to advise the Government. 
I second the motion of censure of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I want, firstly, to draw the attention of the poor, old gentleman 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are airfreight charges for similar items of freight from (a) Sydney to London and (b) London to Sydney. 
If the rate foi similar items is not the same, what is the reason for the difference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is the recognised air freight from (a) London to Hong Kong $1.00 per kilo and (b) Hong Kong to Sydney $1.40 per kilo. 
Is the rate from London to Sydney $3.85 to $5.76 per kilo. 
If so, why is it cheaper to send freight from London to Hong Kong and then Hong Kong to Sydney than it is to send it from London to Sydney direct. 
This is a routine Bill. A similar measure is introduced each year in the Budget session and is disposed of shortly afterwards. This Bill has already been through the Senate where members of the Opposition did not oppose it. We in this House likewise will not oppose it. Basically this Bill increases air navigation charges by 5 per cent, which will return the Government or the Consolidated Revenue Fund between 1st January 1973 and 30th June 1973 a total of $800,000. The Bill also markes provision for an adjustment of general aviation charges. Fortunately this represents a downward turn which we on this side welcome because we know that general aviation has been subjected to quite considerable costs over the years and any relief that can be extended should be granted. For this reason alone we support the Bill. The new charge on training flights should have been introduced by the Government some considerable time ago and for that reason we do not oppose the proposition. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  to several factors. Firstly, there was no increase in air navigation charges last year. They remained unchanged for the year ended 1970-71. It is difficult tor me to understand why they were not increased in that year, having in mind the profits that are being made by airline operators and these words in the Minister's second reading speech: 
The Government is aware that the civil aviation industry has experienced some problems in recent times, with a slowing down of  traffic  growth and rising costs making it difficult to maintain profitability. 
All I draw the Minister's attention to is the fact that when Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd attempted to take over Ansett Transport Industries Ltd one of the precautionary and defensive measures taken by the  chairman  of Ansett Transport Industries was to increase the dividend from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. I would be grateful if the Minister in his reply would explain how it is so difficult to maintain profitability when this airline was able to increase its dividend payment by 50 per cent. Are we now reducing costs by not having an annual increase of 10 per cent as was agreed to in, I think, 1963. or prior to that? As I pointed out a moment ago, last year there was no increase and this year the 10 per cent is cut in half. 
I am afraid that my arithmetic and the Minister's do not coincide. I tried to reconcile my figures on expenditure which I have obtained from the research section of the Parliamentary Library with the Minister's expenditure figure of $11 3m. The best that I can make out of the situation is an expenditure of $93,708,000 with a revenue of $52,483,000 which includes receipts from aviation fuel tax which I believe ure entitled to be treated as revenue. This leaves the situation whereby civil aviation was subsidised to the tune of $41,225,000 or, in simple terms, this Government subsidised the travel of every passenger on aircraft in Australia during 1971-72 to the extent of $5 per passenger per flight. When one compares that treatment of aviation with that given to other types of transport it is a little difficult to understand the way that this Government approaches those other forms of transport. 
I also want to raise a point about the report of the government working group. We recall very vividly that some 2 years ago the Government appointed a committee which it called a government working group to inquire into the air navigation charges on international operators. That report was presented to the Minister in May 1971 - 18 months ago. What has happened to the report? Is the Department of Civil Aviation entitled to levy the present charges on international operators plus the 5 per cent which this Bill provides for? I think it is up to the Government to present reports such as this to the Parliament so that all honourable members can be made aware of just what is happening, what charges are being levied and whether they are fair and reasonable or unfair and unreasonable. I hope that the Minister will table that report because it is something that honourable members should be well and truly acquainted with. 
The other point I want to deal with is, as I mentioned a moment ago, the manner in which this Government subsidises civil aviation in Australia in comparison with other forms of transport. In 1971-72 there were 6,783,000 passenger journeys in Australia, 479,000 in New Guinea and 704;000 international flights, making a total of 7,966,000 passenger journeys. This cost, as I said a moment ago, of $41m by way of subsidy, was the difference between income and expenditure on civil aviation, which means - and I repeat this because I think it is worth repeating - that every person who made a flight on an aircraft was subsidised by the Government to the extent of S5. We should consider that amount against the amount that the Commonwealth Government has made available to the States by way of grants for railways. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  at the recent opening of the Whyalla-Port Augusta railway said that between 1951-52 and 1971-72 the Com monwealth had made available to the States $205m for the, development of railways by way of grants and loans for standardisation and S40m for other rail projects. During this same period the Commonwealth made $2,063,667,000 available to the States for roads. 
I will not go back 20 years in the case of civil aviation. I will deal only with the last 10 years. From 1962-63 to the present time, expenditure on civil aviation - and this does not include administrative charges but includes just the actual running of civil aviation operations themselves - was $589,437,000 and revenue was $241,677,000. In other words, there was a deficit - or a subsidy; call it what you like, but I think it could be, more aptly classified as a subsidy- of $347,760,000. 1 want to take this point just a little further, if I may. I want to draw attention to tha need for this Government to apply the same type of assistance and subsidy to all forms of transport. I have shown the House what has been allocated for roads and the huge subsidy that is paid out so far as air travel is concerned. When we compare, the figure of just on 8,000,000 passenger flights in one year with the 948,000,000 people who travelled by public transport in just the 6 capital cities of Australia in the year 1970-71 and who received no subsidy or assistance whatsoever from this Government, it is time, that something was done about this aspect of transportation. The Government should provide Commonwealth assistance to upgrade public transport and put people who travel by that system on a par with air passengers who receive this substantial subsidy of $5 per flight. 
If we go back over the years we find that the subsidy on many occasions has been as high as $10 per passenger per flight. If it is good enough for this Government to subsidise air travel so heavily it is up to this Parliament to make similar types of grants to upgrade public transport. By making rail, bus and tram travel more attractive to the travelling public the Government will in turn reduce the huge expenditure that is so necessary today to be spent on roads. I bring these few facts to the attention of the Minister for National Development. I think it is important so far as this Parliament is concerned that we take these facts into consideration when we are passing legislation such as this. In fact, I believe that the 5 per cent increase in the rate of air navigation charges should be at least 10 per cent. Also it should have been imposed last year because the industry is a luxury industry which can afford to pay such an increase and these types of charges. In fact, as I have already mentioned, the subsidies which have been paid over the years would have been more than enough to have given considerable assistance to public trans port - either rail, bus or tram transport - and this would have assisted considerably in reducing the huge expenditure on roads. The Opposition does not oppose the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The Restrictive Trade Practices Bill seeks to amend Part XII of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act dealing with overseas cargo shipping. This should have been an amendment of major importance but in reality is only a very minor amendment displaying very clearly how the Government is allowing Australian primary producers, manufacturers, exporters and importers as a whole to remain at the mercy of the overseas shipping conferences which have plagued Australia's trade for many years. The legislation should have gone further to ensure that the Australian Shippers Council would act in the national interest as a statutory body, established by and reporting to the Parliament. The Council should be given a greater variety of powers in its negotiations; for example, it should have the power to call tenders in its negotiations with shipowners and to provide that no representatives of companies which are owned and controlled outside Australia are on the Council. These are the complaints with which we are concerned at this stage. We believe that the amendment to the legislation introduced at this late stage of the Parliament is insignificant and is brought in without any attempt to strengthen the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. It is really a paper tiger in the true sense of the expression because it contains no provision to protect Australia's imports and exports. To illustrate what is involved, I point out to honourable members that in the last 10 years ended 1970-71 we paid out $3, 169m as freight on imports. To that sum can be added another $447m for 1971-72. In all probability, the freight on exports would double those figures. 
Honourable members will appreciate the real position in the light of those figures. I have been unable to ascertain the freight paid on exports but I think it is fair and reasonable to assume that it is approximately equal to the freight paid on imports. In the last financial year alone, freight represented about S900m. For the 10-year period the freight paid on imports and exports would approach $6,000m or $7,000m The determination of the sums to be paid is in the hands of overseas shipowners, with only 4 Australian ships participating in the trade. That must convey to honourable members the importance and significance of this Bill and the need to do something positive about strengthening the principal Act. 
I would like to include also in my speech for the benefit of honourable members some figures relating to trade over the last 12 months. In 1971-72 imports were valued at $4,008,000 and amounted to 26,479,000 freight tons. Exports were valued at S4,896m and totalled 102.8 million freight tons. Only 1.6 of Australia's total imports and .58 per cent of our total exports were carried in Australian ships. This legislation should be designed so that we have more control and a greater say in what is taking place. This measure still does not give us complete control. Instead of establishing about 19 different shippers' councils, the best that could be set up under the original legislation was 5. They are now to go out of existence and there is to be one Australian Shippers Council. It is to conduct negotiations with the Conference lines to determine the freights to be paid and the conditions under which Australia's products will be carried. 
At least this Bill is a step in the right direction inasmuch as facilities will be provided for additional research. It will be a much larger organisation than previously. This represents an improvement but we will fall far short of our legislative needs. Strengthening is needed to ensure that we have positive control over our trade. I remind honourable members how freights have been increased in the last couple of years and the number of times that the shipowners have made excessive demands. I cannot understand the reasons. The shipowners regularly ask for a 25 per cent increase in freights and they are cut back to an increase of about 15 per cent. I am wondering whether it is another example of. the old story of the little boy who wanted 10 cents to spend so he asked for  $1.  He was satisfied with what he got because he wanted only 10c. I am wondering whether that principle applies to the shipowners. 
Over the years the shipping conferences have been well and truly able to put it over the Government in gaining freight increases. In the light of general cost of living increases, not only in Australia but also overseas, the freight increases do not appear to be justified. The shipowners appear to use their bargaining power to impose their conditions. They demand certain freight increases. If the Australian producers do not like to meet the increases they have to find alternative means of transport. 
These exorbitant increases have been imposed for many years. Only when the real competition is introduced are the shipping lines forced to minimise the increases. In the Australia to the United States trade where there is an open conference - anyone can be in it - there are smaller increases in freight charges than in respect of the Australia to Europe Conference. In respect of the northbound conference there has been no real competition until recently. I will deal more fully with that in a moment. Coming back to my original point I will give a couple of examples where the conferences have demanded increases. In April-September 1970 on the United Kingdom-Europe trade the conference sought an increase of Hi per cent over the 1970-71 rates. The shippers asked for a standstill. The conference made a final offer of 4 per cent for wool and 10 per cent for other cargoes except fresh fruit and close weight. The rates were not agreed to by the shipper body but increases of 4 per cent and 10 per cent were the basis of contracts signed by the shippers. 
Our understanding of the principal Act is that there has to be agreement on the freight rates that are to be imposed, and that the Minister has certain powers with which to require shipowners to produce evidence and to justify the actions they have taken, the increases they have proposed to introduce. In this instance I know of no evidence that the Minister has carried out any sort of inquiry to justify the increases. The conference has imposed its will on the Australian producers. I have had a document prepared for me by the Library Legislative Research Service. It gives details of the trade to the United Kingdom, the east coast of the United States, the east coast of Canada, Singapore and West Malaysia. In each case the shipowner has asked for an exorbitant increase. To some degree the demands have been broken down but in many cases the shipowners have imposed their will on the Australian producers. We believe that there should be joint agreement in arriving at freight rates. If need be an arbitrator could be employed to determine the extent of any increase. It should not simply be a matter of the will of the shipping lines. Numerous complaints have been made year after year in the reports of the bodies set up by the Government to handle the various sections of our production and trade. Let us take, for example, the annual report of the Australian Dried Fruit Control Board for 1971-72. The Board states:  . . in the opinion of the Board the establishment of an Australian shippers council along the lines proposed will not improve the position previously obtaining unless the Act is further amended requiring all overseas shipping Interests to_ submit to the Australian Parliament or the Minister or independent nominated bodies, all relevant information for approval or otherwise of increases proposed in the rates of freight for tha carriage of Australian exports to overseas markets. 
This is what one of the boards created by the Government thinks of the legislation which we are debating today. It shares our view. We think it is a paper tiger and so does that Board. I think it is entitled to complain about this state of affairs, bearing in mind the increases that have occurred. The report continues: 
For 1972 the rates of freight for exports of Australian dried fruits to overseas markets were increased by the following amounts: - United Kingdom, Continent and Ireland 1S.7S per cent plus 8.S7 per cent which equals 24.32 per cent; Canada - East Coast, 25 per cent plus 6.32 per cent which equals 31.32 per cent; Canada - West Coast, 7.5 per cent plus 6.32 per cent which equals 13.82 per cent; New Zealand 7.5 per cent and other markets 25 per cent. 
On total exports from the 1972 season of Australian dried fruits of approximately 85,000 tons, the cumulative increase in freight rates will be approximately $A500,000. 
This is what Australian industries have to contend with. As the industries have complained the Federal Government has not been prepared to implement the Board's recommendation. This Board has been making numerous recommendations to the Government over the years to improve the legislation which is now before us, at least to give them some protection against the conference lines. I wonder whether it is because the Government now has a 'window' on four routes in 3 conference lines, as the former Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, referred to it when the Government announced the decision in 1968 to purchase the 'Australian Endeavour' for the Australia to Europe trade. 
Members on this side of the House cannot see any evidence of this window on the conference lines. We cannot get any information from the Government. It is all top secret and the Government is not prepared to make any information available to honourable members. I do not know what the Minister knows about it, or whether it is worth knowing. But at least we on this side of the House cannot get any information on this window into the conferences. As far as we are concerned we are still satisfied that the conference lines are continuing to rape Australian primary producers and manufacturers. 
Similar statements to the one 1 read out concerning the dried fruits industry can be found in the Thirty-seventh Annual Report of the Australian Meat Board. The same story appears; freight rates have been increased on Australian exports of beef. I quote from that report: 
Freight rates on meat cargoes to North America were increased by 25 per cent from September, 1971, despite the opposition of the Australian Meat Exporters' Federal Council which questioned the justification for an increase of that magnitude. An important area of disagreement was that a financial exercise prepared by, a firm of accountants appointed by the conference serving the East Coast U.S.A. trade reflected the voyage of vessels with up to SO per cent vacant space. 
This is one of the major things that is happening today. There is obvious overcapacity in a number of conferences and the Australian trader has to meet the cost of this over tonnaging. The shipping companies have no real concern for the Australian primary producer, as I shall show later on. All the shipping companies are interested in are freight rates. If there is any over tonnaging the primary producer has to pay for it. Australian traders must pay for that over tonnaging. It is time that legislation was introduced to make provision to protect us. As the extract which I just read from the 1972 annual report of the Australian Meat Board shows, there is roughly a 50 per cent over tonnaging on ships travelling to Australia or from Australia to America; 50 per cent of their cargo space is not occupied. Yet Australian primary producers are required to pay the costs of this practice. 
Another angle is that the conference lines are interested in the lucrative runs only. They are not prepared to give any assistance to Australian trade. I refer once again to the Australian Apple and Pear Board Annual Report 1971-72. That report draws attention to the manner in which their freight rates have been increased. I do not want to take up too much time but there is one interesting section of the report in which attention is drawn to the fact that the shipping conferences are not prepared to make ships available. I refer to page 7 of that report, which states: 
Freight Rates (a) Britain/Europe. With the expiration of a 3 year shipping agreement between the Board and the Australia to Europe Conference, it became necessary to negotiate new arrangements for 1972. At the outset the Conference advised that it was no longer interested in providing a Conference service for fruit because of the special problems involved amd suggestions were made that future arrangements should be developed with those owners still interested in the trade. 
My understanding of the conference arrangement is that this is one of its responsibilities; it has to provide the necessary ships to handle Australia's trade, lt is uneconomical at times for the conference to provide these ships and, for this reason, the freight rates under the conference are so high. We have a guaranteed service. We have been told time and time again by Government members defending the conferences and by the conferences themselves, that Australia has a guaranteed service from the conference line ships. I think you could write after that - subject to profitability. When one particular route is not profitable to the conference lines, they want to get out of it as quickly as they can. This is an indication of where the conference lines are prepared to go. 
It can be safely said that October of this year was really a black month for Australian trade because in this period shipping freights on almost every conference route have increased by between 4 and 15 per cent. These are increases that are additional to increases gained earlier in the year. There are obvious anomalies in the whole system. For example, in the north bound conference line in the last 12 months increases have been to the tune of 38 per cent but now competition has been brought into it. A competitor, the Orient Overseas Line, OOL, tried to join the conference. I do not have any great sympathy for this Line because it wanted to take part in the split up of the spoils of Australian trade. When it could not join the conference line, it turned nasty and provided some competition by reducing freight rates by 10 per cent. 
The interesting part of all this is that quite a considerable number of Australia's export groups has refrained from signing the contract. I have a copy of the contract here. It clearly states that the export groups must sign the contract, continue to trade with the conference line and not ship any of their produce with any competitor. If they do any of those things after signing the contract, including shipping their goods with another shipping line - in this case LOL - a 10 per cent surcharge will be imposed on them. They will have to pay a different rate altogether. This is a case where, in my opinion, penalties are being imposed by the conference line because of competition and yet the Government and the Minister for Trade and Industry are not prepared to do anything about it. 
As far as I am concerned, one of the disappointing features is the fact that there are 3 groups which have signed the agreements. They are the Australian Dairy Board, the Metal and Mineral Shippers Association and the Cotton Exporters Association. But what is the real position with the Australian Dairy Board? It will pay in the vicinity of $300,000 to $400,000 more by way of freights per annum by signing up with the conference than it would by dealing with the independent operator. In 1971-72 the dairying industry as a whole received $39,882,000 by way of bounty from the Government so what does it have to worry about? It can go ahead and pay the additional freight charges because the increase will be made up by way of subsidy and bounty from the Government. I cite this information from the answer to a question on notice which I asked on 31st May this year. The answer sets out the amounts of subsidies and bounties which are paid by this Government 
Other boards have refused to sign up with the northbound conference. The savings to these boards will be in excess of $lm a year. At least they have had the sense not to sign up with the northbound conference. They will remain independent to use the facilities which are available to them through this independent operator. I repeat, I have no sympathy or regard for independent operators who would have taken part in the chopping up of Australian primary and secondary industry exports if they could have entered the conference. If a competitor is offering, at least let us avail ourselves of the opportunity of getting lower freight rates. About 6 years ago a Jewish shipping company moved into the trade and was successful in countering attempts by the Australia to America conference line to increase freight charges by about 35 per cent. Because it provided competition it was able to stop the Conference from proceeding with the proposed increase. 
There are many other aspects concerning the whole shipping setup on which I should like some explanation from the Minister. Let us take, for example, car freights. This is an instance of an Australian industry being treated in a manner not in its best interest. Our competitors enjoy advantages over Australian industry and Australian manufacturing. The knock down car freight rate from Australia to Papua New Guinea is $24.23 a ton, while the rate from Japan to New Zealand is $24.85 a ton and from the United Kingdom to New Zealand $31.09 a ton. These figures show what is really happening with freight rates. I think the beauty of them all is that the freight rate from the United Kingdom to Melbourne is $30.35 a ton whereas from the United Kingdom to New Zealand it is $31.09 a ton. In other words this suggests an additional charge of only 74c a ton for freight from Melbourne to New Zealand. These rates clearly demonstrate that Australian industry is being exploited by the conference lines. One could cite quite a number of examples. The rate from Melbourne to New Zealand is $235 per vehicle whereas from Melbourne to Fremantle - in Australian ships - it is $118 a ton. Is it any wonder that Australian car manufacturers are not prepared to be part of the Australian Shippers Council but prefer to negotiate their own freight rates? They realise that if they can use some pressure or some tactics against the conference line to get some concession they can do it better on their own than by participating in the Shippers Council. 
I also draw attention to the failure of this Government to expand the Australian National Line into the overseas shipping conferences to an extent greater than at the moment. At present one ANL ship operates between Australia and Japan, one between Australia and Europe, one between Australia and the east coast of the United States of America and one between Australia and the west coast of the USA. In all, 4 ships are operating. Statements have appeared in the Press to the effect that when the ship under construction in Japan for the ANL is completed, the 'Australian Enterprise' will be taken off the Australia to Japan run, so we will still have only one ship on that run. 
This is a field crying out for Commonwealth intervention, not only for shipping but also for ports. A farcical situation exists today. In the Commonwealth the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  all control some part of shipping. The Minister for Trade and Industry apparently handles the freight side of it; the Minister for Shipping and Transport handles the operational side; and the Minister for Labour and National Service makes an equally bad mess in relation to wharves and stevedoring. At the moment there are 90 ports in Australia under 30 different authorities, all controlled by the States. There is a need for the Commonwealth to intervene in this field either by way of assuming responsibility for all of the ports or alternatively by establishing a commission or authority of some type whereby the Commonwealth and the States enter into a joint responsibility for all Australian ports. The Commonwealth, if need be, would make money available and the States would be the operating authority. The sooner this happens the better. 
Trade is this Parliament's responsibility. We are responsible for all of Australia's overseas trade. We are responsible for trade between the States. Intrastate trade is so small that it just does not matter in the overall picture. This Parliament is responsible for the major and by far the greater percentage of our trade. For these reasons alone we should be operating the ports. We should be responsible for them. The Sydney container terminal is one of the worst of its type in relation to throughput. It is in an area where it never should have been put. All traffic to and from the terminal has to go through some of the densest traffic in Australia. It has S-storey stacking and taken all round it is one of the worst container terminals I have seen, and I have seen a few of them. 
The ports of Newcastle and Port Kembla are not nearly deep enough to handle the modern bulk ships that are available today. The same thing can be said of the old, antiquated port of Brisbane - a tidal river port which is privately owned. All ports should be brought under Commonwealth-State responsibility. The Commonwealth should provide the funds and the States should carry out the work. Sydney Harbour is recognised as one of the best ports in the world, but the largest coal ship it can load is a vessel of 44,000 tons. This gives an indication of the need for the Commonwealth Government to move into this field. The some applies to shipping. Until such time as the Australian National Line has sufficient ships operating in overseas trade to provide real competition for conference lines - not just a 'window' to which the former Minister for Trade and Industry referred - Australian primary industry will be taken for a ride and exploited by the conference lines as it has been for many years now. 
The Opposition believes that the Australian National Line, either by building ships in Australia, by chartering them or by buying them, should be extending its activities into all of the conferences instead of having one ship in 3 of the conferences and one in an open conference. This is the only way in which we will overcome the problem of the exploitation of Australian primary and secondary industry. We realise that it will cost money. Every major country today has its own shipping line. In many cases countries have had to subsidise those lines. I have a list of the subsidies that are provided, but at least those countries control their own shipping activities. It is not chickenfeed that is involved. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, freights on our imports and exports cost in the vicinity of $900m a year. In the last 10 years they have represented approximately $7,000m, which is a large sum of money. The Government should be interested in taking measures to ensure that Conferences Lines do not continue to exploit Australian industry. The Government can take action by doing the things that I have suggested and also by making regular reports to the Parliament through the Minister responsible for trade, advising the Parliament of the negotiations which have taken place and the result of those negotiations and letting the Parliament make some decision and determination on what should be done in this important part of our trade. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many staff, advisers and others accompanied him and  Mrs McMahon  on their recent overseas visit 
How many persons were in the accompanying press group. 
On which airlines did these parties travel. 
What was the cost of air fares paid to each airline. 
Did his party travel with other than the Australian international flag carrier Qantas; if so, why. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I draw his attention to the millions of gallons of crude oil and petroleum products that are being imported in foreign owned and manned ships. Why is the Government permitting these imports in foreign owned and manned tankers while Australian owned tankers are tied up and Australian seamen are being thrown out of work on the basis that cargoes are not available? 
 As outlined by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  2 Bills are under discussion at the moment - the Airlines Agreement Bill and the Australian National Airlines Bill. The Opposition proposes to move an amendment, which I will outline presently, to the Airlines Agreement Bill. With respect to the 
Australian National Airlines Bill, in the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving an amendment to section 17 of the principal Act. The Opposition intends to support the other proposals embodied in the Bill, lt will support the proposed amendment to section 31 of the principal Act relating to limitation of borrowing. The Opposition believes that this proposal is long overdue. The Opposition also will support the proposal relating to the profits required of Trans-Australia Airlines. The Bill seeks to amend section 37a of the principal Act which deals with profits derived by TAA from insurance. The Opposition will support this proposal. 
It is pleasing to note that the Government seeks to delete section 65 from the principal Act. This section relates to medical examinations of persons injured in accidents. The repeal of this provision will put TAA in the same position as any other private operator. It is time ail bureaucratic protectionist clauses were removed from legislation so that Government instrumentalities are not operating under more favourable conditions with respect to litigation against them arising out of some injury or accident. For those reasons the Opposition supports the last 4 amendments to which I have referred. 
I do not propose to be as kind to the Government with regard to the Airlines Agreements Bill. There is no justification whatsoever for this legislation being brought into this place in the dying hours of the Parliament. It was introduced last night and it is being debated this afternoon. Only tomorrow is left before the House rises. This legislation should not have been brought in; it should have been a matter for consideration by the new Parliament. This Agreement has 5 years to go, from 31st December this year. It does not expire until 31st December 1977. The Government has given an extension until 31st December 1982. In the dying moments of this Parliament there is no justification for the action which the Government has taken. This is typical of the handouts this Government gives to its friends. It is typical of what happened in connection with Jetair Australia Ltd, which was a putrid and blatant act of corruption by a crooked Prime Minister. 
I withdraw the statement unreservedly,  Mr Speaker,  and just say that it was a putrid action of a Prime. Minister who would have no difficulty sleeping on a corkscrew. 
I withdraw the statement unreservedly,  Mr Speaker.  I am afraid that you and I have different opinions on this matter. 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  1 have withdrawn the statement that I made, but I still believe it. 
I withdrew it unreservedly. 
I withdrew the statement unreservedly. 
OK. The Opposition raised the matter of the Government's handling of the Jetair incident in this place by way of questions and speeches. It is clear to everyone who is prepared to examine this matter fairly and without feeling that this Government paid far too much for 6 aircraft. Statements have been made by people who purchased 2 surplus Qantas DC3 aircraft and a considerable amount of spares. They paid $43,000 each for them; but in the opinion of the purchasers, they paid much less than the $43,000 for each aircraft when they took it ito consideration the amount of spares available. At the same time as this Government purchased 6 aircraft for 
$275,000- 
I am just drawing attention- 
I am concluding my remarks. I am just drawing attention to the manner in which this Government has, in my opinion, taken care of its friends. At the time the Government paid an average of $46,000 each for aircraft with many hours up on the motors and the airframe, an aircraft with zero hours on the airframe and the motors was available for $50,500. This is a typical example of the Government's abuse of this Parliament. The other matter to which I wish to refer concerns the appointments that were made recently to the boards of Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. These were made in the dying hours of this Parliament. Not only was there a replacement of a member of the Qantas board but also the board was increased by the appointment of 2 members who were friends of the Government. The same thing can be said about this decision to renew the 2- airline agreement in the last few hours of this Parliament. For the reasons I will set out, the Opposition will oppose the Bill because we consider that it is not in the best interests of this country. 
I now want to deal with the provisions of the Agreement in the Schedule to the Bill. The first one concerns parallel timetabling. Clause 5 of the Third Schedule refers to the Minister having power over air services. In other words, this is the clause which deals with parallel timetabling. I hope that in the few days that are left until 2nd December the Government will do something to overcome the anomalous position that exists at the moment in that on the Sydney-Melbourne run there are 109 flights a week, of which 91 are identically scheduled flights and in the case of only one flight by each airline is there a greater difference than 15 minutes in the scheduled times of take-off. This is a case where the Government has been talking for some years about compelling the airlines to dispense with parallel timetabling; yet it has done nothing about it. Statements have been made by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  which have not been worth the paper they were written on. He has done nothing about it. A Labor government will do something positive to break up parallel timetables. 
The other matter dealt with in the Agreement is the imposition of curfews whereby jet aircraft are not permitted to fly from certain airports in Australia. I want to deal in particular with the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, but at the same time I know that the Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth airports all have the same curfew problem. In Sydney there is a blatant abuse of the curfew hours. The answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  revealed that in the first 3 months of this year - from January to March - there were 159 breaches of the curfew out of Sydney Airport alone. This must be stopped. A Labor government will rigidly enforce the curfew - on operations not just out of Sydney, but out of all airports - so that the people who live in those areas will be able to get reasonable rest and will not be disturbed by screaming jets taking off over the top of them. 
The same can be said about the Electra aircraft. Whilst Electras are not included in the curfew - they are turbo-prop aircraft - they make almost as much noise as a DC9 in taking off and landing. People should not be subjected to the noise nuisance from this type of aircraft. A Labor government will implement the recommendations of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. Consultations will take place between the Labor Party's Minister for Transport and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to ensure that the people in their electorates will not be subjected to the terrific noise nuisance that is created. A Labor government will prohibit the use of Electras on the east-west runway during curfew hours. In the early stages they will be permitted to operate on the 16/34 runway, or the north-south runway, provided they take oS and land over Botany Bay. Provided they are not causing any inconvenience to the people who live in the area they will be permitted to operate in this way. But if, say, the wind is blowing in such a direction that it is not permissible for the aircraft to land on this runway it will be just too bad - the operator will have to suspend those flights on those days. The Opposition believes that the people who live adjacent to the major airports should no longer be subjected to the great noise nuisance to which they are subjected at present, particularly during the hours of sleep from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. On this basis alone we will be doing something positive. 
Something else which is not referred to in the relevant agreement but on which an executive decision was taken is the terminating of the arrangement under which Trans-Australia Airlines has been operating for years concerning the use of contributions to the airlines superannuation fund. The contributions to this fund have now been transferred to the Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation Fund. A Labor government would restore the position existing prior to the bureaucratic executive decision taken by the Government at the behest of  Sir Reginald  Ansett, the head of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, who had been complaining about this financial arrangement for years. We will restore the superannuation fund to what it was before. I am pleased to say that no mention is made of the superannuation fund in the agreement. It was not necessary to incorporate any reference to it in the agreement. Just as it was deleted by an executive decision it will be restored by an executive decision to what it was previously to enable this airline to operate on at least reasonably even terms with Ansett Transport Industries. Involved is a cost factor as far as TAA is concerned of $516,000 in this year's operations alone. That is what the Government has done in respect to the alleged even handed 2-airline system. We will restore the position. 
Another matter involved in the relevant agreement is the presentation to the Parliament by Ansett Transport Industries of separate financial details relating to its airline activities. The provision of the agreement that only a statement need be pre sented to the Parliament by the directors of the company is not acceptable to the Labor Party. A Labor government will accept nothing less from a company conducting airline operations and work associated with airline operations than a state* ment containing financial details of ite operations solely in this respect. It would not be interested in examining at the same time the operations of television stations, suburban bus services, hire car services and so on. It would be interested only in examining the airline and associated activities of ATI. 
There is only one real way in which an understanding can be gained of the financial operation of ATI and that is by the setting up of a separate airline company to carry out airline operations and related activities; and that is what we will require. In this way we will be able to get a clear indication of the financial operations of both airlines. I am not just kicking Ansett. I want to know whether TAA is also operating efficiently. If it is not, I will want to know why it is not. There is only one way in which one can get the true picture and that is by comparing the financial operations of both airlines, but not by doing so in the manner which has been proposed in the agreement whereby the books can be cooked. I use that expression without making any suggestion of dishonest intent. The fact is that information could be suppressed and not made available to the Parliament. TAA financial affairs are subject to audit by the Government's auditor. If we are to continue to have a 2-airline system under which there is the equivalent of a guaranteed profit we should also have the affairs of the other company investigated by the Government's auditor. Both companies should be put on equal footing. Both should be subject to the same auditing, which I hope would bring out the facts in both cases. That is the Labor Party's attitude as far as the presentation of a financial statement is concerned. The agreement is not satisfactory in this respect. 
The agreement is also not satisfactory in relation to the carriage of freight. There is a rationalisation programme at present under which both airlines have access to an equal number of passengers. We want the same principle to apply to freight. 
There was an attempt recently by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd to take over Ansett Transpot Industries by the acquisition of shares. TNT is one of the largest freight forwarders in Australia. It is also one of the largest general transport carriers in Australia. TNT is now a major shareholder in ATI. It holds something like 23 per cent of the shares. It is only natural that TNT will divert a considerable quantity of its freight carriage to Ansett Transport Industries. A Labor government would make sure, in that event, that all Government business was directed to TAA. It would make sure that all mail carriage was by TAA. If there is to be equal opportunity to transact businss it has to be on equal terms and not on terms under which somebody who moves into the field diverts all of his business to his company and also gets half of the Government business. A Labor government would look at these things and make sure that everything is operating correctly. 
I wish to draw attention to a couple of anomalies. As I mentioned earlier, this Bill was brought in with indecent haste in the dying hours of this Parliament. I believe that the agreements were ready back in April but that the TNT takeover bid interrupted what was happening at that time and upset the Government's schedule. If the Government was ready back in April to have the agreements signed, why was the introduction of the Bill to ratify the agreements delayed until late in the life of the Parliament? If a Bill could be drawn up to implement the terms of the agreements, why could a similar Bill not be drawn up to amend the Australian National Airlines Act to make sure that TAA gets all of the things which have been promised to it in a letter? I would not trust the Government as far as I could ick it with a broken leg. For that reason alone there is any amount of justification for saying that a Bill should have been brought in at the same time as this Bill to rectify the position as far as TAA is concerned. There is some doubt as to the legality of TAA's operations. All that is required is a small amendment to section 19 of the Australian National Airlines Act which will permit TAA to be entitled to do all the things which Ansett is entitled to do. All that is required is the deletion of the words 'or as incidental to' in subsection 1 of section 19 of the Act and the insertion of a suitable, amendment which would take care of the position regarding the legality of TAA carrying out certain operations that 1 will list in a moment. If the Government were fair dinkum - I say it is not - it would have brought down a Bill concerning the airline agreements and a Bill containing the necessary amendments to the Australian National Airlines Act. 
The Government stated in August that it was going to permit TAA to do certain things. We on this side of the House have been demanding this for some years, but the Government has done nothing about it. It could have done so easily by a minor amendment to the Act. As far as we are concerned, because Ansett is entitled to certain things, TAA should be permitted to enter into, for example, the field of private engineering. It has some of the best equipment in the world just lying idle for too much time. We will permit it to use this equipment to contract for work now done by private companies, as happens in Newcastle with the. Newcastle State Dockyard, which is a State Government instrumentality. It does work not only for the Government but also for private industry. In fact it specialises in heavy engineering for the heavy steel industry in the Newcastle district. There is no reason why TAA cannot likewise do this. It will be given authority so to do. The same thing applies as far as Commonwealth contracts are concerned. TAA will be permitted to compete with Ansett in the field of hotels, tourist development and the. like. If it wants to set up a road transport organisation to carry freight by road, or if it wants to use its powers to acquire tourist buses as part of its airline operations so that it can take kiddies or people so far by bus and then by air for the rest of the. journey, it will be permitted to do so. 
Another important matter is the right of TAA, having moved into the field of hotels, motels and tourist activities, and not wanting to go into this field on its own, to do so in partnership with some existing organisation. Under the old financial arrangements TAA, no doubt after acquainting the Minister of its intentions, was able to use its superannuation funds to acquire shares in those companies. It had the superannuation funds to fall back on. Now it will have to approach Treasury, Treasury will have to examine the proposition and Treasury then will make a decision on whether it will approve it. This is why it is important that superannuation funds be restored to their previous position. The other point is the right of TAA to enter into aerial work, charter operations and, most important of all, to participate, we hope, in the airline operations of the new Papua New Guinea Government. These are the things that a Labor government would propose to do and which we have been demanding for so many years from this Government. But the Government could not put these things through in the dying hours of this Parliament so that everything could be dealt with on an equal footing. 
The Government's decision to phase TAA operation into Western Australia over a period of  2  years is not good enough. TAA should be permitted immediately to operate from Perth to Darwin and to conduct airline operations in Western Australia. There has been no mention of TAA operating in South Australia, but I know that the Government has been requested by the South Australian Government to permit TAA to operate in that State. We will permit it to do so. The exclusion of TAA from operating in Western Australia has been of distinct disadvantage to that airline but of great advantage to Ansett. It is estiamted that the monopoly of intrastate operations in Western Australia has been worth something like  $3.  5m a year to Ansett. As far as I am concerned, the proposed  2-year  phasing in period is not good enough. I know that this rearrangement will cause staff problems, and that aspect will have to be closely examined. The phasing in of TAA into an operation which involved a monopoly for a subsidiary of Ansett will cause staff problems. As far as we on this side of the House are concerned, this phasing in will not be at the expense of the employees. It will have to be dealt with possibly on the basis of transferring some employees from one airline to the other. At least men and women should retain their employment in the industry. Time will take care of this problem because of the natural wastage of people leaving the industry. However this problem should be overcome. 
The last matter I wish to raise concerns the profits of the  2  airlines. Under our  2  airline system profits are far too high. This year TAA has made a profit of  10  per cent and last year it made a profit of  12  per cent. Ansett has been operating on a  10  per cent dividend. When the Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd takeover was imminent Ansett, in a defensive move, increased its dividend from  10  per cent to  15  per cent. In a protected industry such as the  2-  airline industry which is operating in Australia today, a  10  per cent profit is too high and a  15  per cent profit is far too high. Action should be taken by this Parliament to make sure that the profits in this protected industry are reduced. There is only one way to go about that, and that is by the Minister taking positive action, firstly, by directing TAA to reduce its fares so that its profit will be restricted to a maximum, I would say, of  8  per cent. That would be the highest figure to which I would be prepared to go. If TAA took that positive action, something could be done about these high profit margins. There has to be greater flexibility in fares, concessions and the like. We know that for some years TAA has been trying to introduce off-peak concessional fares. Ansett has always opposed this proposition by saying: There is the aircraft. This is the fare. If you use the aircraft you pay the fare that we want to levy'. That is not good enough, and the Government should be pushing TAA to set the pace by reducing its fares to a level at which people would be able to travel under fair and reasonable conditions.  1  want to direct to the attention of the Parliament the difference in return to the airlines between the first class and economy class fares. Let me take as an example the Sydney-Melbourne run, which is the most used run in Australia today. There are  4  first class seats to a row. The one way fare for each seat is  $33.  That gives the airline a return of  $132  a row. In the economy class there are  5  seats to a row at  $27.30  a seat. This gives the airline a return of  $136.50  a row. I ask the Minister why the airline receives a greater return from economy class passengers who are seated  5  to a row, than it does from first class passengers who are seated  4  to a row. If first class passengers want the comfort of only  4  seats to a row, the airline should get a greater return per row of seats from the first class passengers than it does from the economy class passengers. Not very many years ago this was the position, but in recent years the position has been reversed. The increase in first class fares has been greater than the increase in second class fares. Air fares in Australia are too high. We have one of the highest load factors in the world. For example, the figures for the last 3 years for TAA are interesting. In 1969-70 the load factor was 67.3 per cent; in 1970-71 it was 65.2 per cent, and in 1971-72 it was 64.1 per cent whereas the average load factors for the world as shown in the recent report from the International Civil Aviation Organisation were 54.8 per cent in 1968, 52.5 per cent in 1969, 51.5 per cent in 1970, and 51 per cent in 1971. On those figures a reduction in our fares is more than justified. For the reasons I have outlined, on behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Government be condemned for seeking to usurp the powers and functions of future Parliaments by extending an agreement which does not expire until 1977 through to 1982 and for the reason that it discriminates against Trans-Australia Airlines and does not provide for even-handed competition between the 2 airlines'. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morrison)  adjourned. 
 We are happy to deal in Committee with the proposed amendments to the Australian National Airlines Bill as a whole. Only one of the proposed amendments concerns the Opposition, and that relates to section 17 (7.) of the principal Act. This section of the Act indicates its age because it states that the rate of salary payable to any other officer, if it exceeds 2,500 per annum, shall be subject to the approval of the Minister. We have no objection to that part of the amendment which proposes to increase that figure of $5,000 to $13,700. The part to which we object is that which proposes to permit the increase in salaries by regulation. We are not prepared to accept that proposition because we believe that this is a matter which should be determined by the Minister or by referring it to the Public Service Arbitrator or, in the case of the airlines, to the appropriate tribunal. We propose to amend clause 4 of the Bill by omitting the words: 'or, if a higher rate is prescribed, that higher rate'. Its effect will be that the salaries cannot be fixed by regulation. They must be fixed with the approval of the Minister. I do not wish to speak at length. I propose an amendment to clause 4, which reads: 
Section 17 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (7.) the words "if it exceeds the rate of Five thousand dollars per annum" and inserting in their stead the words "if it exceeds the rate of Thirteen thousand seven hundred dollars per annum or, if a higher rate is prescribed, that higher rate". 
I move: 
Omit 'or, if a higher rate is prescribed, that higher rate'. 
We have had the opportunity of listening to a speech by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  which was typical of the speeches on tariff protection to which we have become accoustomed to hearing from him. He is in favour of a complete free trade society - a society in which there would be no tariff protection and no assistance for any Australian industry. 
All I can go on is the way in which the honourable member for Wakefield, for some considerable time now. consistently and regularly has opposed any form of tariff protection for an Australian industry, and the record clearly establishes that fact. The honourable member for Wakefield is a free trader, and I have always gained the impression that he was proud of the fact that he is a free trader. But having proceeded to attack the recommendations of the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding and what is allegedly involved in it, 1 want to refer to a question which I asked and to which I received a reply on 3 1st May 1972 dealing with the subsidies which are doled out by way of bounty and the like by this Government. I am not taking the Government to task for having done this because I believe there are industries in Australia which require protection, either by way of tariffs or by way of bounty. 
I just want to draw to the attention of the honourable member for Wakefield some of the rural industries which receive Government assistance, particularly the one in which he is interested, namely, the wheat industry. In 1971-72 assistance was given to the wheat industry through its stabilisation scheme in the amount of $27,200,000. The industry of which the honourable member for Wakefield is so critical, namely, the shipbuilding industry, for the same year received $10,068,000. I do not know what the honourable member is complaining about when the industry in which he is interested certainly has been well and truly subsidised. Total subsidies paid to all rural industries for the year 1971-72 amounted to $274,917,000. For the same year, the manufacturing industries - I will not go through all of them - received a total of $82,831,000. So when lt comes to the matter of subsidies, the rural producers do not do too badly. I am not being critical; I am just drawing attention to the facts. 
The honourable member for Wakefield launched an attack on the shipbuilding industry and the Tariff Board report. If the recommendations of the Tariff Board and/or the policies of the Government were adopted it would spell the death knell of Australian shipbuilding within the next 2 years. In a joint ministerial statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  it is stated: 
Approvals to import new ships will be freely given where Australian yards have been given the opportunity to tender but where no Australian yard tenders for the vessel or where the price of the vessel from the Australian ya'rd, after payment of the subsidy, exceeds the normal price for which the vessel can be acquired from an overseas builder, including the cost of delivering to an Australian port. As at present approval to import would be freely given for new vessels not exceeding 200 tons gross register. 
After the report was released I spoke to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who assured me that there would be no change in the present procedure of placing orders with Australian shipyards. If that is the case, why was that paragraph put in the statement? We certainly would delete it. That statement to which I referred was made on 31st May 1972. Finally, after considerable public pressure from the shipbuilding interests of this country, and from honourable members in this place, on 10th July the Minister came up with an amendment to the original statement which was put out on 31st May 1972. In that amended statement he said that the Government had now decided that it would not permit the free import of ships into Australia but that it would continue to pursue the present policy of considering the position. If the Australian shipyards did not have any orders, the Government would do something about it. This is a policy which the Labor Party supports, because we believe that our first responsibility is to Australian industry, to Australian workers and, in this case, to the Australian shipbuilding industry which has had a pretty raw deal from this Government. 
The other point in the report of which I am critical is the decision not to provide a subsidy for ships built for the Australian trade. For example, if the Australian National Line or some other Australian line wants to build a ship to expand its activities into the overseas trade, under the present arrangement and under the recommendations of the Minister, they will not receive a subsidy on that ship. It forces them into the position of having to go overseas to have the order filled, even if it means that Australian workers will be put out of employment. We have the situation at the moment at Evans Deakin and Co. Pty Ltd where the ship presently being built is reaching the point where the shipyard should be starting on another ship. Unless it gets an order, I would say, by the end of this month - there is no order pending at this stage - this yard will have to consider seriously the future employment of its staff. 
I know a little about shipbuilding. When the construction of a ship gets to the stage where the work starts to taper off, the shipyard then has to absorb that labour into the next ship that it is to build. This is where this Government is creating havoc amongst the shipbuilding industry. One of the major reasons why Australian shipping costs as much as it does is the fact that we have this boom and bust situation which this Government creates. One way to guarantee continuity of employment would be to provide a subsidy on ships built for the Australian overseas trade instead of saying that they have got to be built overseas. We should take into consideration the amount of trade involved. In 1971-72 we carried only 1.6 per cent of our imports and .58 per cent of our exports in Australian ships. This in itself is sufficient justification for a change in the Government's thinking. Somewhere in the vicinity of $900m a year goes out of this country in shipping freights. This amount should be used to expand the Australian shipping industry so that it does not flow out of Australia. This is another reason for a change in the present position. 
One point in the report on shipbuilding with which I agree is that we should not be paying a subsidy on ships being built for export. There is no need to worry about that trade. There is still sufficient work in Australia, because at the present time 51 ships are trading on the Australian coast. They were built overseas. There is a great need to expand the Australian shipping industry into the overseas trade, and this would provide all the employment that we want for Australian shipyards. This can be done if only the Government will get on with the job. There is a lack of confidence in the Government's shipbuilding policy by the shipbuilding industry. I have here a cutting from the Adelaide Advertiser' of 12th October this year which states: 
The proposed $12m to $15m expansion plan for the Whyalla Shipyard has been temporarily shelved. 
The general manager of the shipyards  (Mr D. 
Dalziel) said yesterday that this was because uncertainty in the future shipbuilding market made it difficult to justify such an expenditure. 
This is the whole position that exists in the Australian shipbuilding industry. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  talked about the price at which ships can be built overseas and the fact that overseas some of the yards have averages of something like 40 tons per man per annum as against 9 tons per man in Australia. This is all brought about because the Australian industry is not prepared to risk the expense involved in developing and expanding its shipyards to a point whereby it can say, as  Mr Dalziel  said in the statement to which I referred: "Right, we have continuity of employment. We can quite safely take the risk of spending some $12m to $15m in just one shipyard to bring it up to a standard comparable with overseas shipyards.' 
The same thing can be said with all of the other shipyards throughout Australia. The Newcastle State Dockyard needs modernisation improvements. The same can be said for the Evans Deakin dockyard. Cockatoo Island Dockyard in my opinion belongs to the days when the ark was built. The same can be said of Williamtown Naval Dockyard. I was never more depressed in all my life than when I went through the dockyard some years ago with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  It is so outdated that I am confident that that dockyard built the ark. It needs money to be spent on upgrading the layout, general equipment and everything associated with it. Unless the Government is prepared to encourage industry to carry out this type of improvement, what the honourable member for Wakefield has said will be perfectly true. The Australian shipbuilding industry will continue to drag behind overseas yards unless it has incentive and confidence. 
Government supporters should be doing something positive about the situation by saying to the Australian shipbuilding industry: 'We are prepared to make available to you long term cheap interest money so that the necessary development in the shipyards can be carried out to bring them up to a standard comparable with overseas.' If they were prepared to do that I am certain that the tonnage rate per man would improve considerably because the industry then would be able to introduce the latest type of equipment, machinery and technique whereby it could build ships that would be comparable with those built overseas. The same can be said as to the number of ships that are being brought to Australia and operated on the coast. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  just handed me a question which he asked, the answer to which discloses the number of ships which were imported into Australia in 1971-72. The shipbuilding industry will be very worried when it sees, for example, the number of ships which this Government is permitting to come into Australia. At the moment Evans Deakin in Brisbane is on the verge of closing down because it cannot get any continuity of work. Almost the same thing can be said about Adelaide Ship Constructions in Port Adelaide which is in a similar position. At the moment only 2 yards in Australia have continuity of employment beyond 1974 - the State Dockyard in Newcastle and Whyalla Shipyard. 
If we are to stay in the shipbuilding industry we have to improve the yards far in excess of their present condition. The only way to do that is to get on with it and for the Government to give them confidence. The decision of the Government to dispense with the 6 recognised yards concept in itself can bring about a great lack of confidence in the shipbuilding industry because at the moment there is not sufficient work being given to these yards to guarantee them continuity. If the Government plans to let other people come into the field it will mean that the butter will have to be spread a little thinner than at present. 
You may. 
Debate adjourned. 
Because of the time schedule I will have to get a move on and delete some of the things which I wanted to say about this matter. In the criticism by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  of the Australian shipbuilding industry he made reference to the amount of time that is lost as a result of stoppages, particularly over demarcation. As one who has been 15 years in the industry, he cannot tell me anything about demarcation and what is involved in it. The honourable member did not say this, but I know that the principal reason for demarcation disputes in the industry is that the men are determined to hold what they have within each individual union because there is no guarantee of continuity of employment. The men's attitude is that they have to hang on to what they have. They say the work is theirs and they are going to hold onto it because if they do not do so they will be out of employment and it is better for them to be in employment and the other fellow to be out of it. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  is a member of a shipbuilding union, the Federated Shipwright's and Ship Constructors Association of Australia. I am a member of the Boilermakers and Blacksmith's Society of Australia. Both of us have worked in the same shipyards and know the problems associated with them. I know that he agrees with the views I have just expressed. If this Government guaranteed continuity of employment in the shipbuilding industry I am certain that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the union executives would then be in a position to do something positive such as to say to their members: 'Look, forget about demarcation. Let us get on with the job because there is going to be employment.' Since the amalgamation of the unions representing the boilermakers, the engineers, the sheet metal workers and the blacksmiths has taken place there have been no demarcation disputes in the shipbuilding industry between those 4 trades. The people who were opposed to the amalgamation should examine this question very quickly. 
In conclusion, one of the other things that is most important and needed above all in the shipbuilding industry is an industry award instead of the present situation where about 17 or 18 unions in a shipyard all have different rates of pay and conditions. This in itself brings about industrial problems and stoppages. Where men are in the one shop, handling the same equipment and doing the same type of work, except on different material, and are getting different rates of pay, there is a problem. An industrial award, and continuity of work is what is needed. I will conclude on those points, to co-operate with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  even though I should like to say a lot more on the question of the shipbuilding industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
There are 3 Bills before the House. One provides for the endorsement or ratification by the Government of the amendments adopted by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation in 1969 to the provisions of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954. The other 2 Bills, namely, the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy) Bill and the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Bill determine the conditions under which levies may be imposed upon shipping companies to set up a fund to provide the means for the dispersal of oil that has been discharged into the sea. The Opposition is not satisfied with the 3 Bills and for that reason, I move the following amendment to the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Bill: 
That all words after "That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst not opposing the Bill the House regrets that the Government - 
has failed to clarify whether responsibility for protection of Australian territorial waters belongs to the Commonwealth or States, 
has not acted in a comprehensive way to ensure that Australian territorial waters are protected from all environmental threats from oil, whether they be from shipping or land based activities and including all ocean dumping and 
has not, on behalf of the Australian people co-ordinated management of the Australian territorial waters in the interests of the long term conservation of the Earth's oceanic resources'. 
Paragraph (a) of the amendment deals with the Government's failure to clarify whether responsibility for the protection of Australian territorial waters belongs to the Commonwealth or the States. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  has tried on numerous Occasions to have legislation debated in this chamber that provides for clarification of this important point. Legislation known as the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970 was introduced by his Government and certain assurances were given to the States that once that legislation was passed the Commonwealth would finance any challenge to the High Court of Australia on it in order clearly to define and determine where the responsibility lies as far as the territorial sea and continental shelf are concerned. The Government has hedged since the change in the Prime Ministership. We on this side of the House support the views expressed by the right honourable member for Higgins. We believe that this is a matter which should be clarified at an early date. 
Every time international conventions are brought forward for ratification, particularly those dealing with maritime matters, we run into the problem of the States having the responsibility for the introduction of complementary legislation and of the measures being delayed unnecessarily. If this matter were clarified these things could be proceeded with immediately. 
Because nearly all shipping in Australian waters is engaged in trade and commerce with other countries and between the States, we believe that it is the Commonwealth's duty to assert responsibility. The Commonwealth has been most dilatory and diffident in enacting such laws. 
There is little doubt that under both the trade and commerce powers and the external affairs powers of the Constitution the Commonwealth could have implemented the provisions of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 1954, which was the first convention dealing with the problem of the pollution of the sea. However, the Menzies Government took the attitude that complementary State legislation was required. The Commonwealth did not pass legislation concerning the 1954 convention until 1960. It was some time - late 1962, 1 believe - before all the complementary legislation arising out of the 1954 Convention was passed by the States. Some States are interested in passing complementary legislation as quickly as possible but others are not so interested. 
Because Australia is a maritime nation which has some 12,000 to 13,000 miles of coastline that it has to protect from pollution, it should endeavour to have this legislation enacted as quickly as possible. It is 3 years since the amendments referred to in this legislation were adopted by IMCO but it is only at this late stage of the life of the Parliament that legislation has been brought forward to ratify them. That is not good enough. It shows that the Government is not prepared to act quickly. I admit that so far only 9 of 31 countries have ratified the amendments. But if we had got in and passed this legislation immediately after the amendments were adopted by IMCO it would have meant that at least 10 countries had ratified them. Other countries then might not have been hanging off and saying: 'There is no need to rush these amendments through. A lot more countries have to ratify them'. The weakness in the whole setup is that in order to protect Australia's coastline or to provide the means whereby it can be protected and whereby action can be taken against those who offend, this legislation should have been brought forward at least 2 years ago. That would have enabled us to get on with the job. 
The second part of the amendment refers to the Government's failure to act in a comprehensive way to ensure that Australian territorial waters are protected from all environmental threats from oil, whether they be from shipping or land based activities, including all ocean dumping. Once again the Government has failed miserably to meet its responsibility. I admit that there is already in existence the Act which this Bill seeks to amend. There was the ratification of the original 1954 Convention on the Pollution of the Sea by Oil and the amendments to it in 1960, but in this field this is the only legislation that fully protects the Australian coastline against pollution. We have had examples of exorbitant amounts of pollutants being dumped into the sea, allegedly 100 and 150 miles from the coastline in certain depths of water. But how much longer can the nations of the world go on dumping into the oceans of the world before reaching a point of no return? 
Recently statements were made in Victoria that flake - the dear old shark - can no longer be sold for human consumption because of the alleged amount of mercury in the fish. Admittedly this has nothing to do with the Federal Government but at least it is an indication of the lack of real action on the part of governments in Australia to combat the dumping of pollutants into the oceans, the rivers, the harbours and the bays in and around this country. It is in this regard that this Government is to be condemned because it has control of the oceans. My understanding of the position is that if large companies such as the Imperial Chemical Industries organisation, the various oil companies, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, with their cyanide, their arsenic and various other acids, want to dump these things into the ocean all they have to do is to approach the Department of Shipping and Transport which tells them where they can dump these things. As I understand it, if these companies elect to disregard the directions of the Department of Shipping and Transport there is not much that can be done about it. They just go ahead and dump so long as they are outside territorial waters. 
This practice has to be stopped. Once they get to sea we may not be able to stop them from dumping these acids and chemicals into the ocean, but at least we can take action against them in relation to their land based activities. We can require them to dispose of the various chemicals that they are dumping into the sea. We can introduce legislation whereby we can force them to provide some method of disposal. After all, companies such as ICI, which is an international chemical company, General Motors and the various oil companies which are world wide organisations, can afford the cost of experimentation to determine methods and ways of disposing of these harmful chemicals that are being dumped into the ocean. The cost of researching how to dispose of these things would represent only an infinitesimal proportion of the amount of money which they would be spending on research and the like. They should be forced by governments - not only the Australian Government but governments as a whole - to do this. We hope that the United Nations will be able to bring forward a standard convention which could and should be ratified by the countries of the world. 
There is a greater awareness of the problems associated with pollution today than there was a few years ago. When I first became interested in atmospheric pollution as an alderman of the Newcastle City Council back in 1947, the people of Newcastle were not very co-operative in relation to what we then called the Smoke Abatement Committee because they had the crazy idea that we could not have development and expansion of industry without the inconvenience of smoke and atmospheric pollution. But now, 1 am pleased to say, people are getting over this attitude and are realising that we can have development and expansion without the problems of pollution, whether it be atmospheric pollution or water pollution, by the adoption by industry of the correct methods of control. This is v. hat we should be requiring of land based companies which are dumping their waste into the ocean. Even though we cannot control what they are dumping into the ocean, at least we can take, some measures to force them to do the things which we want them to do. 
I am not particularly happy with this Bill. I will not be satisfied until we reach a stage where the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation - probably better known as IMCO - brings forward a convention to the effect that no oil shall be dumped in the oceans and that action will be taken to prevent this. One line of action which can be taken is to seal the pumps on the ships and to require, that these seals be broken only in times of emergency. In the case of a tanker going from port A to port B, its pumps would be sealed before it left port A. The same system could be applied as is applied in relation to customs today when a container leaves one country to go to another. The seal of the originating country is placed on the locks on the container and is not broken until the container arrives at its destination. The same thing could be done with the pumps on ships to ensure that they were not used. Of course, if some emergency arose nobody would complain if the seals were broken and pumping was carried out to save the ship and lives of the crew. These are things that do arise from time to time. 
The principal provision of this Bill relates to the dumping of oil at sea on the basis of not more than 60 litres per mile in excess of 50 miles from the nearest land. Another provision is that if the ship is within 50 miles of the nearest land it may discharge oil at the same rate of 60 litres per mile but diluted to 100 parts per million. We are concerned here mainly with the Australian coastline. The coastline in the north west section of Western Australia is about the only part of our coastline where the tides and the wind will acually take the discharged oil out to sea. The tendency on the east coast, the south coast of Australia and the lower section of Western Australia is for the wind and tides to bring the things that are dumped at sea on to the Australian coast. So even if waste is dumped at sea more than 50 miles from the nearest land, the fact of the matter is that it will still come back on to the coast as a result of tidal and wind action. For this reason we should be demanding that the Government take action, just as it has done in relation to the Great Barrier Reef, by moving amendments at future conferences of IMCO to ensure that the Australian coastline will be protected against the ravages of oil dumped at sea. 
As I said a moment ago, we will not be satisfied until this finally is brought into operation so that we guarantee that this type of thing will not happen. 
In relation to our own coast, we do not realise the number of times ships discharge pollutants into the sea. I have here some information which was given to  Senator Mulvihill  which shows that for the 12 months ended 31st March 1971, in New South Wales 111 incidents of pollution were reported. In Victoria the number was 134, in Queensland it was 4, in South Australia it was 15, in Western Australia it was 11, in Tasmania it was 27 and in the Northern Territory it was 3. People just do not realise the frequency with which oil is being discharged in unreasonable quantities into the oceans. What concerns me is that of the 111 cases in New South Wales, in 25 of them the culprit went undetected. In Victoria of the 134 cases, 69 of the culprits were not detected. Even in cases where the culprit is brought to book, the thing that concerns me once again is the way in which magistrates are dealing with this. I am concerned about their failure to prosecute the shipowners for having discharged oil into the sea or into the bays, as the case may be. It is important to bear in mind that in New South Wales of the 16 cases that were taken to court and in relation to which prosecutions were made, the total of the fines imposed was $1,130. In Victoria, of the 34 cases that have been successfully prosecuted, the total fines came to $7,950 - paltry amounts which the oil companies would not miss. If they were to be prosecuted to the extent of $10,000 or $20,000 for each offence they would start to take notice. 
I read recently that the Victorian Minister for the Environment was complaining about the manner in which the Victorian courts were dealing with offenders dumping oil into the sea. In my electorate about 2 years ago one of the shipping companies discharged a considerable amount of oil into the harbour. It was fined a paltry sum by the magistrate who said that he understood that it was an accident and that it was a very careful company. He went on to give all sorts of excuses for the company. Anyone would have thought that he was the one presenting the case in defence of the action taken against the company. The company was fined the paltry sum of about $50. After reading about this I wrote to the responsible Minister in the New South Wales Parliament about it. He replied that the matter was in the hands of the court; the court had taken action and made a decision and that he would not intervene. This gives an indication of the Government's attitude as a whole. 
I turn now to the other 2 Bills, after having dealt mainly with the first one dealing with the pollution of the sea by oil. The decision of the Government is to set up a stockpile of dispersants to counter any large spill adjacent to the Australian coast. I agree with the setting up of this pool or stockpile of suitable materials. Australia has been fortunate to date. We were lucky in the case of the 'Oceanic Grandeur' that the tides took the oil spillage away from the coast; otherwise we would have been in serious trouble. Although the Government has decided to go ahead with the decision to set up a stockpile of dispersants I should like to see it doing more with the Sim which it hopes to collect from the shipowners by way of levy. The Opposition supports the levy because we do not see why the Australian taxpayer should pay for these measures. The people who are most liable to create the problems should pay for them. So, we support the principle of the levy. 
In the main we support the stockpiling of dispersants in various centres, but we believe that the $lm that the Government will collect by way of a levy from the shipowners should be put to some other purpose besides just stockpiling of dispersants. I think this is a field which lends itself to considerable research and investigation to determine the best methods of dealing with large dumping of oil at sea, whether it be by accident or by a deliberate act of a ship's captain. I believe that the Government should use this money to carry out investigation, probably on a basis, once again, through the United Nations, of putting a levy on each country to set up a huge pool of scientists to investigate this matter and to determine what are the best methods of dispersing oil and, if need be, other industrial wastes which are being dumped into the ocean. The dispersants which are being used at present, while they get rid of the oil, also get rid of the marine and bird life in the ocean. 
I would prefer to see scientists working on new ideas which are arising today in relation to mechanical recovery of oil. I noticed just recently in an article from the United States that a huge tanker affair has been developed. It is collapsible and made of rubber. It is taken to the scene of the spillage, dumped into the ocean by helicopters and then inflated with pumps. The oil is collected in this manner and taken back to the shore and disposed of. I am not saying that this is the be-all and endall of it, or that the use of booms or other types of mechanical recovery plant that are being experimented with will solve all problems, but I think this whole campaign of experimentation has to be stepped up. The people responsible for the problem, namely the shipowners, should be required to pay for the research. 
I should like to see some of this money used to carry out work in this direction. Tankers use various methods of carrying oil, but I understand that only the more developed countries are using preventive methods in their tankers. In the main the tankers are owned by the major oil companies. The countries where they have their tankers registered, such as the United States, United Kingdom and France, have introduced preventive methods. They have introduced tanks for the recovery of oil instead of just dumping it over the side. But the same companies are really Jekylls and Hydes. In the countries where the companies have registered under flags of convenience their ships are not fitted with these conveniences. 
The largest tanker in the world today, which was launched only recently, is about 470,000 tons. Shipyards and shipowners are talking about million-ton tankers. In Belfast Harland Wolff Ltd, one of the largest shipbuilders in the world, already has built a dock capable of building a one million ton tanker. This hard-headed company was not prepared to spend that sort of money in developing and constructing a building dock unless it had in mind building a ship of that size. Ships of this size which will be travelling around the world should have the necessary equipment installed so that instead of pumping oil out of their bilges over the sides they can put it through the necessary process of recovery and take it back to shore, where it can be refined or disposed of in some other way, instead of being dumped into the sea. 
I believe that there, is any amount of field for the Government still to operate in to improve the situation with regard to pollution of the sea by oil and other means, either by chemicals or the outfalls of sewage which are taking place all round the Australian coast. Around Sydney in particular, in the large populated areas sewage is being dumped into the sea. This certainly indicates what is necessary and the money that should be spent. This is a field in which this Government has responsibility at least to provide, water and sewerage boards and similar authorities in the States with the necessary finance to carry out this type of improvement. 
The other things with which I wish to deal are the proposed increases in the penalties for pollution. The increases proposed by the Government provide for a maximum penalty of $50,000. I understand that similar legislation enacted by the United Kingdom Government has penalties not of $50,000 but of Stg50,000 which, I understand, is a heck of a lot more. I should like the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his reply, to give some indication as to whether this information is correct. I believe it to be so. 
I know the rates of exchange. I should like the Minister to indicate why the Government has not increased the penalties comparable to those of the United Kingdom. Having in mind the difference in the. cost of living within the 2 countries, the English penalties are about 4 times as great as ours. I should like some information from the Minister on why the Government has not been prepared to impose greater penalties than those proposed in this Bill. When the Bill was introduced originally in 1960 the Opposition was very critical of the paltry fines imposed even under that legislation. I am pleased to see that the Government at least has woken up to the fact and is prepared to take much stronger action than before to deter shipowners from dumping oil into the sea. That is one decent part of the legislation, but I hope that the Government will take necessary action to raise this matter with the InterGovernmental Maritime Consultation Organisation to get a complete prohibition of dumping oil into the sea extended even further to the complete prohibition on the dumping of all harmful industrial wastes at sea. Our armed Services - the Royal Australian Navy, the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force - have all at some time or other dumped large quantities of explosives into the ocean. This is a field in which the Government has control. These are Government departments. The Government should bring down a policy which prohibits dumping of this type into the ocean. I do not know what other methods may be used to dispose of unexploded explosives but that is the responsibility of this Government. It will not be so for much longer but at least it is still the responsibility of this Government to work out ways and means by which the Services can get rid of surplus outdated ammunition instead of dumping it into the ocean. The Opposition, whilst it agrees mainly in principle with the legislation, regrets that the Government has not done those things which are set out in the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many single voyage permits have been granted to (a) oil tankers, (b) bulk ships and (c) general cargo ships to operate on the Australian coast during 1970, 1971, and 1972 to date. 
Will he provide details of the (a) tonnage, (b) owner, (c) charterer and (d) cargo in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of (a) domestic and (b) international air travel for Commonwealth Ministers and employees during the latest year for which figures are available. 
What was the break-up between each airline. 
The 3 Bills before the House have just been outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  The first one is the principal Act to approve the accession by Australia to the convention relating to the suppression of unlawful seizure of aircraft, to give effect to that convention and to provide for punishment for the unlawful seizure of aircraft and acts of violence on aircraft in certain circumstances in which that convention does not apply. The other 2 Bills are the Extradition (Foreign- States) Bill 1972 and the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill 1972. I do not propose to go through the whole of the legislation, it already having been dealt with by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs. I propose at this stage to content myself with stating a brief history of hijacking and hijacking legislation, and mentioning some suggestions I should like to make at a later stage in my contribution to this debate. 
The Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 dealt with interstate nights, aircraft owned by the Commonwealth, foreign aircraft on interstate flights and on flights to and from Australia, and crimes on Australian aircraft on flights outside of Australia. That was basically the outline of the first move in the direction of preventing hijacking. The next Act was the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Act 1970 which ratified the 1963 Tokyo Convention which was adopted on 14th September 1563. That Convention dealt with offences and certain other acts committed on aircraft. It dealt indirectly with hijacking problems. It was not a specific antihijacking measure. It imposed on contracting States an obligation to establish within existing individual municipal legal framework, jurisdiction to deal with certain inflight offences and offenders. Although it dealt with the return of hijacked aircraft it did not provide for the return of alleged hijackers. There was no separate provision making hijacking an offence. 
I now deal with the Bills before the House, which are related to The Hague Convention of 16th December 1970. This Convention represents the first specific anti-hijacking measure. It creates a new hijacking offence on a national basis and is based on the desire of contracting States to assure certain prosecution and punishment of hijackers at a time when hijacking is increasing alarmingly and when some hijackers seize aircraft and cause them to be flown to places where, for many and varied reasons, they believe they are likely to be immune from prosecution and extradition. 1 hope that the terms of the Convention will be adopted and acted upon by all the countries of the world. Close to the time of the Hague Convention there was also the Montreal Convention of 23rd December 1970, which was a further attempt to guarantee prosecution and punishment of specified in-flight offenders. Hov ever, as in the case of The Hague Convention there are still many difficulties in constructing an effective deterrent and preventive structure because of the diverse motives of individual hijackers, among them being the mentally deranged criminals in flight from justice who use passengers as hostages to demand money, and political escapees. These measures are some of the attempts that are being made to overcome this serious problem of hijacking. 
At this point I should like to draw the attention of honourable members to the number of hijackings which have taken place during this year alone. Up to about September 25 aircraft have been successfully hijacked. Since January of this year there have been 26 unsuccessful hijackings. All told, 140 passengers and crew have been killed and 97 people have been wounded. On these figures alone there is sufficient justification and grounds for strong legislation to be introduced by not only this Government but also by the governments of the world to try to combat this menace that exists in the world today. Until such times as governments are prepared to take strong and positive action we will continue to be subjected to hijackings by people who think they can get away with the offence by using the passengers on board as hostages to obtain money. If those people can be convinced that they cannot get away with it that will be the best result. I do not think penalties will deter them. 
I want also to draw attention to the hesitancy of the Government in ratifying agreements. The Tokyo Convention was made on 14th September 1963 but was not ratified by the Government until 22nd June 1970. The Hague Convention, with which we are now dealing, was agreed to on 16th December 1970 but only today are we debating the legislation in connection with its ratification. It was certainly signed on 15th June 1971 but it is the ratification which is the important part and that will not go through until this Bill is dealt with today. It will be almost 2 years since the Convention agreed to the terms that have been circulated and that we are asked today to ratify. It is just not good enough. 
The Montreal Convention was agreed to on 23rd September 1970 but it was not until 12th October, a few weeks ago, that the Government saw fit to sign it. At this point, on the last day of this Parliament, still no legislation has been brought forward to ratify that Convention. Why could not the Government have brought both Bills in at the one time? Just as we are supporting the Hague Convention we on this side would support the terms of the Montreal Convention or of any other convention instituting positive action to combat hijacking. In order to elaborate on this point I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is at the table, to allow me to incorporate in Han sard a table made available to me this morning by  Sir Donald  Anderson, the Director-General of Civil Aviation. I did not have a chance to show it to the  Minuter  beforehand. It lists the signatories or parties to the Tokyo, Hague and Montreal conventions as at 11th September 1972. 1 ask for leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="081131197210265_56_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081131197210265_57_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister and the House. The table should give honourable members a valuable comparison between the attitude of the Australian Government to conventions and that of other governments in a similar category. I refer, for example, to Canada, South Africa, United Kingdom and the United States. The comparison could also take in Sweden and similar countries. Canada has already signed and ratified the 3 agreements to which I have referred. I do not agree with the racial policies of South Africa but at least it has not been dilatory about the signing of conventions. South Africa also has signed the Hague and Montreal conventions, and most important of all, it has ratified the 3 conventions. Panama and other small countries also have signed and ratified the conventions. 
The United Kingdom and the United States have signed and ratified the Tokyo and Hague conventions and have signed the Montreal Convention. The important point about the signing and ratification of the Hague and Montreal conventions is that both the United Kingdom and United States signed them in 1970 and both ratified them in 1971. Both the United States and United Kingdom signed the Montreal Convention in 1971, over 12 months earlier than this Government saw fit to do so. In previous years with previous conventions there has always been a feeling that the Communist controlled countries have been reluctant to be parties to those conventions. However, it is obvious from a list of Communist countries which have signed the agreements that the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Hungary and countries like that are just as concerned about hijacking as we are. It is obvious to me that they have co-operated by signing and ratifying the various agreements. That should indicate to the Western countries that at least they are prepared to cooperate. 
On one point we should give assurances. People who hijack aircraft for political reasons and endanger the lives of passengers on those aircraft must know that when they are caught they will have to return to the countries from which they came. That is my attitude. I do not care whether they come from fascist countries like Portugal, Spain and Greece or from communist countries. Although Cuba is not a party to the agreements at least it is now more co-operative than it has been in the past. No longer can hijackers direct captains of aircraft to fly to Cuba with complete immunity. In the past hijackers have received some protection in Cuba, but those hijackers who receive protection there today are so glad to get out of Cuba and go back to face up to their responsibilities that they look forward to being deported. Whilst Cuba does not sign and ratify the agreements it makes things so difficult for hijackers when they get there that they are only too glad to get out of the country. 
I refer to an American aircraft which was hijacked in the middle of this year and flown to Algeria. The Algerian Government immediately returned the Sim ransom. I am not in a position to say what happened to the hijackers. They may still be in Algeria as free people, they may have been imprisoned, or they may have been confined in a political compound. At least an indication has been given to hijackers in the future that Algeria is not a haven to which they can fly their aircraft. I hope the incentive can be removed so that hijackers will not direct aircraft to particular countries. I think the havens of refuge are getting fewer each month. More countries are realising that it is a case of You today and me tomorrow', and for that reason they are not acting as havens. 
At the moment the Middle East is not only a real trouble spot for the hijackers of the aircraft and saboteurs but also it has ground problems. I hope in the not too distant future the Middle East will be able to solve its basic problems. It will not be easy but then a way may be found of solving the problems of hijacking of aircraft in that area. That is what we have to look forward to, although I do not think much can be done at this stage with the countries of the Middle East. I believe that taken overall we have to adopt a practical and realistic approach to the problem, even if it means that somewhere along the line we have to think in terms of the United Nations imposing sanctions against countries which are not prepared to return hijackers to the scene of their crime. 
I think the returning of the money is one deterrent - as was done by Algeria - but the main thing is to return the hijackers to the country of their crime. If that step is too strong to be covered by the sanctions of the United Nations I believe the airlines of the countries that are prepared to participate in these conventions and to ratify the agreements should at least discontinue air services to the countries that are not prepared to co-operate. I feel that is one other way of solving the problem. We in this country have been fortunate up to date and I hope that that state of affairs continues. We had a false alarm just recently in the case of an Olympic Airways aircraft which was on its way to Greece. I wonder whether this was a false alarm or whether something did happen on that aircraft. There are very strong stories to the effect that something did happen on it. 
 That is right. It could well be. But at the same time, people in the Greek community are concerned that there was an incident on that aircraft, and they would know more about that than the honourable member or I would know about it. All that people outside the Greek community can do is to take note of what happened and ask themselves whether the rumours are true or false. At least I hope that they are false. But if they are true we should ask what action we are going to take in the future to make sure that incidents such as this one which was alleged to have happened do not happen again. I feel that we can possibly take some action at our end to ensure that people are not forcibly taken out of this country on foreign aircraft by people associated with the country which operates that aircraft. This is a matter which the Minister for Foreign Affairs would know more about. The truth about this incident is probably in his little book of secrets which he will continue to keep to himself. If the rumours are true I hope that the Minister will be prepared to act. I am certain that the Minister, like honourable members on this side of the House, does not approve of what could possibly have happened on that occasion. 
The other incident I want to deal with concerns the  'Mr Brown'-Qantas  affair. To me this was a serious offence. I would like to quote from a Press cutting of the 'Sydney 
Morning Herald' of Friday 28th January 1972 which states: 
Peter  Pasquale Macari  'Mr Brown'  in the Qantas $300,000 extortion case - was sentenced to 13 years gaol yesterday by a judge who said that the penalty for the principal offence 'was fixed long ago and is totally inadequate*. 
Raymond James  Poynting,  who stood with  Macari  in the dock, was sentenced to 7 years. 
Judge Staunton said he was satisfied that Marcari had control of the disposal of the  unrecovered  $220,000 of the half million. 
I want to point out to honourable members that the judge has drawn attention to the inadequacy of the sentence.  'Mr Brown'  was sentenced to 15 years with a 9-year non-parole period and his accomplice was sentenced to 7 years wilh a 4- year non-parole period. What it amounts to is this: If these blokes are shrewd, and most criminals are, they will play it safe and calm while they are in prison.  'Mr Brown'  will be loose once again in the community in a minimum time of 9 years and his accomplice in 4 years, and they will be free to do what they did on the previous occasion. 1 believe that the Government should be entering into negotiations with the State governments, if it has not already done so, to set down more stringent penalties than those which were set down on this occasion. I have been on aircraft on 3 occasions when, because of mechanical difficulties, the aircraft have had to return to an airport. On one occasion I was in a 2-engine plane which had engine failure in one of the engines and the pilot had to put down immediately. Fortunately we had just taken off and the pilot was able to put the plane down. I know that some honourable members opposite would have hoped that the plane would not get down, but I point out that there were other people on the plane besides myself. On 2 other occasions I was on 4-engine aircraft which had engine failure in one of their engines. Whilst I had no fear on any of these occasions, one is still glad to feel the wheels touch down on the strip. There is very little risk involved in a 4-engine plane flying on 3 engines on a perfectly clear and calm day. But, as I say, one is still glad when the wheels touch the strip. So I can understand the feeling of those people who were up in the Qantas aircraft which had to circle round with an alleged altimeter bomb on board which could have gone off at a certain level below which the aircraft flew. It must have been hell for these people. As far as I am concerned it should now be hell for  'Mr Brown'  and his accomplice. But I do not think that the sentence impoed by the court is doing this. It is obvious to me that the learned judge gave the  2  men the maximum penalty that he could impose. We, the legislators, whether it be in this Parliament or in the State parliaments, should take appropriate action to increase the penalties and so provide a greater deterrent to the people who have this kind of thing in mind. 
It is pretty apparent that the Qantas incident resulted from the story contained in a book and film produced some time ago. Whilst I do not agree with everything that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  does, I think that he, his Department and the Austraiian Federation of Airline Pilots made a wise decision recently in connection with banning a film which concerned hijacking and which some of us who were interested saw at a special screening at the National Library. I do not think that the opportunity should be given to people to form ideas of this kind and maybe commit these offences. We should not allow people of  'Mr Brown's'  calibre to get their ideas from these sources and commit crimes and offences against the community. I think that the Minister is to be commended for the action he took in banning that film from being shown in Australia. 
So much for the principal Bill. We on this side of the House support it. The Opposition likewise supports the  2  complementary Bills which deal with the extradition of people involved in hijacking because it would not be much use putting through the principal Bill without also going along with the complementary legislation. I would like to say on behalf of the Opposition that we support the measure. 
 I propose to speak for only one minute, and I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  for giving me one minute to make my point. Earlier this evening we heard a speech by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  concerning the pre-selection ballot in the electorate of Shortland. He tabled certain documents from a  Mr Johnson.  The honourable member for Mackellar spoke and tabled the letters for one purpose only - to discredit Alderman Peter Morris, the selected and endorsed Labor candiate for the seat of Shortland at the forthcoming Federal election.  Mr Morris  is a most honourable man. I have known him for many years  -  I would say for the best part of 20 years. In that time I have never seen him do one dishonest thing. He is a well respected alderman of the Newcastle City Council and a well respected businessman in Hamilton. His parents, his brothers and his sisters all bold very responsible positions in the community. One of them is a doctor. These letters were tabled to villify this man, in an attempt to discredit him on the eve of an election. I can get proof to show that this man Johnson, who is a justice of the peace, knowingly witnessed a false statutory declaration by a person whom he personally knew. It was not like somebody coming off the street and saying: 'Would you witness my signature? I want to make a statutory declaration; I would like you to witness it as a justice of the peace'. He personally knew the person who allegedly signed the document. This fa the type of man for whom papers are being tabled here in an attempt to villify Alderman Peter Morris, the selected and endorsed Labor candidate. 
I made an arrangement with the Minister. I thank him for the couple of minutes I have had. I should have liked to take the whole file apart and explain to honourable members just how rotten this man is. If anyone should be prosecuted, it is Johnson for having breached his responsibility as a justice of the peace. I notice a Labor senator's name mentioned in the file. He has a writ against the Australian Broadcasting Commission and I am confident that when the matter is heard it will put him on the retired list for the rest of time. 
Mouse adjourned at 11.42 p.m. until a date and hour to be fixed by  Mr Speaker  as determined by resolution of the House. 
It is true that in the course of the election campaign the Prime Minister did give an assurance to the electorate in Tasmania that the Labor Party, if elected to government, would do something positive about the disparity in shipping freight rates and the great difference demonstrated by a comparison between the cost of transporting goods a certain distance in the mainland States and the cost of transporting goods an equal distance between Tasmania and the mainland. Within a very short time - I have seen a brief rundown of it already - I expect to receive a report from the Bureau of Transport Economics dealing with this subject. I know that that report already has disclosed quite a substantial difference in freight rates. I hope to put a submission to Cabinet shortly, not only on that subject but also on another matter with which one of the colleagues of the honourable member is concerned, namely, the King Island trade. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a  second  time. 
The Bill before the House relates to seamen's war pensions and allowances. The Act which it amends was first passed in 1940 to provide appropriate war pension benefits for Australian seamen and their dependants, having been framed on British war pensions legislation but drawn to conform to Australian conditions, chiefly along the lines of the Australian Repatriation Act. With some 30 years having elapsed since those wartime days, I think it appropriate that I should remind the House of the extent to which the Australian Merchant Navy suffered at the hands of the enemy during the 1939-45 War. As a result of service at sea during the war, 288 Australian seamen were killed, 39 died of injuries, 37 died while prisoners of war, 9 were lost at sea, 5 died of illness and 8 died from unknown causes - a total loss of 386 lives. Many of these seamen lost their lives in ships sunk as a result of enemy action while employed in Australian coastal waters. In all, over 30 ships were lost around the Australian coast, of which 13 were Australian, whilst many others were attacked by submarines or suffered some form of war casualty. The Bill, which continues to provide some recognition of the service that these men gave, is complementary to the Repatriation Bill in that it applies the same important improvements in war pension rates and conditions of eligibility to be provided under that Bill to the corresponding provisions of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
Under the Bill the existing general rate pension is increased from $14 a week to $16 a week and the existing widow's pension is increased from $20 a week to $21.50 a week. The amount of $43.10 a fortnight appearing at the foot of column 2 of the First Schedule being inserted by clause 5 results from the former practice of fixing the widow's pension rates according to the rank or rating he'd by their deceased husbands. This is to be phased out in future pension movements. The intermediate rate of war pension is being increased by $2.55 a week to $36.55 a week. This is the rate paid to seriously disabled persons whose war-caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part-time basis, or intermittently. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $3.10 a week in the special (totally and permanently incapacitated) rate, bringing it to $51.10 a week, or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the serious disabilities set out in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increases in rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
As has been slated in connection with the Repatriation Bill, the Government's policy on student children of war pensioners which is given effect to in this Bill, in conjunction with the Repatriation Bill, is that benefits should not terminate at age 21 but be continued until completion of the student's full-time education. This applies only in respect of dependent children who are not receiving a maintenance or living allowance or salary from Commonwealth sources that equals or exceeds the allowances payable under a repatriation children education scheme. Clause 3 makes the necessary amendments. 
As has also been indicated in connection with the Repatriation Bill, whilst some de facto wives and some ex-nuptial children are recognised for war pension purposes, the Government considers the present provisions too restrictive and in need of being brought into line with the recognition now afforded such persons under other Commonwealth Acts. The Bill therefore includes, in clause 3, amendments which will recognise for war pension and associated benefits purposes any ex-nuptial child of a seaman coming under the Acts. In addition to de facto wives already provided for in the Act, it also recognises a de facto wife or widow who has lived continuously with such a seaman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status, or the seaman's death, as the case may be, if she is or was wholly or partly dependent on him. The Bill does not appropriate the small amount of funds required to cover the increased benefits, as the necessary funds are included in the appropriation under the Repatriation Bill. The increases in pensions will be retrospective to 7th December 1972, the first pension pay day after the recent elections for this House. This Bill reflects the concern of the Government for those who served Australia in time of war, and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I noticed in one of the Sydney newspapers recently a very interesting article on the number of deaths that were allegedly caused by fumes as the result of fire on board aircraft. It is a fairly technical question which the honourable doctor has asked me. I have referred the matter to the Department of Civil Aviation and asked the medical officers in that Department to give me a full and detailed report which I will make available to the honourable member when it is ready. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1968, I present the annual report of the operations of the Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30th June 1972. The financial statements of Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30th June 1972 were tabled in the house on 14th September 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A seaman on a rig service' vessel is entitled to a wage of $9,505 for a 26 week/26 week work/leave ratio. The minimum wage for an adult seaman is $5,922 for a 32 week/20 week work/leave ratio. 
The minimum wage applying for each rating in the award for most Australian ships is shown in the table below. Wages paid in respect of special types of ship are higher by varying amounts. This information has been supplied by the Commonwealth Steamship Owners Federation. Almost all ships work a 32 week/ 20 week work/leave ratio, although certain exceptions work a 30 weck/20 week work/leave ratio. 
Australian wages in shipping, like many other Australian industries, reflect the higher standards of living which Australians enjoy. This is one factor in the economics of shipping. But with ships increasing in size and with modern technology I do not believe that these wage levels should stand in the way of expansion of Australian shipping. 
These matters are under constant examination by the Department of Transport and the Australian National Line. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has approved in principle a scheme to provide two-thirds of the cost of improving urban public transport. The projects that will be included in this scheme are still to be determined. 
and (3) Discussions on this subject have taken place between all State Ministers and myself at the 39th meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory, Council. 
and (5) As I stated earlier the projects which are to be included in this scheme will be determined after further consultations between the State Governments and the Australian Government. 
Currency Changes: Effect on Woodsreef Mines Limited  (Question No. 253) 
The Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement is at present under review by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. Also I am reviewing the present Agreement with a view to submitting to the Cabinet very shortly a proposal on the Government's policy in relation to the establishment of a national roads scheme so that the Commonwealth will have a greater say in what roads are to be built and their priorities instead of the present situation in which the States are determining what roads shall be built. Our national highway system is in a chaotic condition. National roads and roads of major importance, such as the Hume Highway and the Pacific Highway, will never be completed while we persevere with the present system. The whole matter is under review and I hope to be able to present the proposal to Cabinet at an early date. 
For the information of honourable members, I present copies of statements made by myself in February with regard to the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting held in Hobart on 16th February 1973. These statements included: 
 I have not seen the article in  Hie  'Courier-Mail' referred to by the honourable member for Bowman but 1 am aware of the problems associated with the Australian shipbuilding industry which, I believe, would have closed down if there had not been a change of government. When I took office  as  the Minister for Transport, I was placed in the most unfortunate position of finding that there was only one ship to be allocated - a sea coaster for the Australian National Line. On top of that  a  rig for the Santa Fe company was to be allocated to an Australian shipyard, but there were distinct  11110/73- il - PO]  problems associated with that rig. Since we came to office we have given an undertaking to the Santa Fe company and to Evans Deakin, which was the lowest tenderer for the rig, that the Government would be prepared to pay a 45 per cent subsidy on the building of the rig. 
A further problem was handed to us in connection with the rig, that is, whether work would be available for it when it was completed. We were faced with the question of being prepared to pay a subsidy for the building of a ship or a rig which was to be exported. As a result of a decision made recently by the Cabinet, the Government has given the Santa Fe drilling company an assurance that, if the rig is built in Australia and on completion is held on the coast for a reasonable time, no attempt will be made by the Government to recapture the subsidy on the building of the rig. This in itself should ensure continuity of employment at the Evans Deakin shipyard for some time, at least until the Government can get orders for the building of ships in Australian yards moving again. What I have done further to guarantee work for rigs built in Australia is to notify the oil drilling industry that in future permits will not be given to drill for either gas or oil with imported rigs until such time as orders are lodged to replace the imported rigs on the coast. With this policy being pursued the Government will have drilling for oil or gas on the Australian coast rigs built in Australian shipyards thus guaranteeing continuity of work in the shipyards for the men employed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member for Bowman, like a number of other Brisbane members, is greatly concerned at the announcement that was made yesterday by the management of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd. I do not think we can look at this question as just one issue - the decision by the management of Evans Deakin to close the yard. We must look at the whole question of shipbuilding and at who is the guilty party in this matter. In 1969 the previous Government referred to the Tariff Board the matter of granting a subsidy on shipbuilding. The Board reported to the Government in June 1971 and the Government of the day sat on the report. It did nothing until May 1972 and then its action was only as a result of moves by the then Opposition, the Australian Labor Party when it instructed me, as its spokesman on transport, to initiate an urgency debate in this place on the matter. The then Minister for Shipping and Transport came to me at 1 o'clock that day and said: 'If you do not go on with your urgency debate, I will table the Tariff Board's Report'. He said: 'I do not have time to prepare it at this stage. I cannot give the details. I cannot prepare 2 speeches.' But the Minister did prepare 2 speeches - one on my urgency debate, deploring the failure of the Government to do something about shipbuilding and then at a quarter past eight that night - 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The statement which was just made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon")  is a deliberate untruth. (Honourable members interjecting.) 
I do not intend to withdraw that remark. The facts are very simple. At 10 minutes to one on the last day of the autumn session of last year, in May, the then Minister for Shipping and Transport telephoned me in my room and said: 'Charlie, you are moving for the discussion of a matter of public importance today on shipbuilding, shipping, dredging and docks'. There were 4 points. He said: 'I have the Tariff Board report ready to present. I cannot prepare 2 speeches for the one day.' I said: 'Okay. I can see your problem and how you want to make a statement on the Tariff Board report, but from my point of view I do not see any sense in withdrawing my urgency motion. I will check it out with Gough.' I rang him back within minutes to inform him that leave would be granted to present his Tariff Board report and make a statement, on the condition that I could follow him immediately. These are the facts,  Mr Speaker. 
That is what Gough said. The only difference in the honourable member's statement is that the couple of hours that he mentioned was a couple of minutes. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am astounded; the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who was the former Minister for Shipping and Transport, has brought this matter before the House, but all he could talk about in his speech which ran for 12 minutes was all the ills that this Government has not cured. Honourable members will have noticed that I rose in my place and supported the request to debate this matter of public importance because I welcome the opportunity of replying to the frivolous statement that has been made by the former Minister. The honourable member for Gippsland) said that he knows the Department. He ought to; he was the Minister of it. But why did not the honourable member when he was the Minister do something positive about ensuring that there would be a continuity of orders after 2nd December? There is not one order in the pipeline to be allocated to any shipyard, and if ever there is a guilty man he is the honourable member for Gippsland. These are the facts. I challenge the honourable member, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the former Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who will speak last in this debate to give us the facts. 
These are the facts. Let me deal with King Island. I would like to quote from the statement made by Captain Houfe which was incorporated in Hansard by the honourable member for Gippsland. Captain Houfe said: 
Budgets made out by three separate Companies show thatif the former freight subsidy of $4.35 per ton was made available the vessel can operate profitably on a freight rate of $12 per ton plus the freight subsidy. 
So there, once again, is the guilty man. Captain Houfe took that ship off the run in June 1972 and the then Minister did not do one thing about making sure that that ship remained on the run. As far as the then Minister was concerned they could have tied this ship up for ever. He was not prepared to do one thing about keeping it on the run. 
Captain Houfe had an arrangement with the former Minister. One of the agreements was that when Grassy was developed that the subsidy would cease. I stated on behalf of the Australian Labor Party Transport Committee that our Party would do certain things about the 'Straitsman' and the King Island trade. This was based on information which came to us from Captain Houfe. I say that Captain Houfe - and I make this statement in complete realisation of what I am saying - misled my Party into believing that the 'Straitsman' was a viable proposition. The former Minister knew at the time that it was not a viable proposition. According to what we have since discovered from a close investigation of this matter the facts are that if we were to put the Straitsman' on, the Australian National Line would lose something like $500,000 a year. Captain Houfe knew that because he lost $90,000 in the first 7 weeks during which this run was operated. The former Minister also knew about it. So he should not come in here and make hypocritical statements about what goes on and what does not go on. The position is that the 'Straitsman' is not a proposition. We were not given the facts. The situation is that we have made a deal with the Tasmanian Government. At a meeting the Premier of Tasmania, the Tasmanian Minister for Transport, the Federal Treasurer and I agreed that the 'Straitsman' was not and is not a suitable vessel for the King Island trade. For that reason we have come to an arrangement that another ship can be brought on to the run for 2 or 3 years. At the end of 2 years the Tasmanian Government has agreed that it will replace the imported vessel with a ship built in an Australian yard and on which the Commonwealth will pay a subsidy. These are the facts in regard to what has taken place. 
Let us have a look at the real situation. When Adelaide Ship Construction completes the shipbuilding work it now has, there will be no further orders for it. The honourable member for Gippsland was the Minister who approved the order for the ship for Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, for which Adelaide Ship Construction submitted the lowest tender, being allocated to Broken Hill Pty Ltd. The former Minister tolerated this. The same thing applied to the Union Steam Ship Co. of New Zealand's vessel when the hon ourable member was the Minister. In that case Adelaide Ship Construction was the lowest tenderer but the contract went to BHP. The honourable member was the Minister who was responsible for this decision. So I ask you not to talk to me about what I have not done. I will tell him in a moment what I have done, and it is plenty. That is more than can be said for the honourable member for Gippsland. 
It is true that Evans Deakin Industries Ltd is almost out of work at the moment. I do not know what that company is up to. It would appear to me that it is getting up to some skulduggery in trying te put pressure on to the Government. But there is no need to put pressure on the Government because the Government has made sufficient statements on what it is doing to put shipbuilding in Australia on a sound basis so that yards will know where they are going and will be able to act accordingly. Evans Deakin has an order to build a drilling rig. It is not a $20m rig. You know that the cost will be less than $10m. They have an order to build this rig. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald - Cameron).  He accused me of nepotism with respect to the Newcastle electorate and said that I gave favoured treatment to the State Dockyard by allocating the Australian National Line's 'Seacoaster' to it. The Newcastle State Dockyard secured that vessel because its tender was $2m lower than the tender of Evans Deakin and Sim lower than the tender from Adelaide Ship Construction. Regarding his accusations of nepotism because of the decision of the Government to build a graving dock in Newcastle, I point out that that was the recommendation of the interdepartmental committee which reported to the previous Government on this matter. It recommended that a 120,000-ton dock be built at Newcastle. 
It is perfectly true that the United States of America has what is known as a Highways Safety Act which was first introduced in that country in 1966. Since 1967 all motor vehicles in the United States which are involved in interstate commerce have had to comply with the mandatory safety measures which are laid down and which today are known as the Federal motor vehicle safety standards. These standards became operative in 1967. From time to time the American administration has updated the standards. In Australia a similar set of design rules has been introduced. These rules were endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council at a meeting held in February 1967 and became operative, I think, in 1970. At present I believe that there are some 22 design rules which manufacturers have to comply with. Whilst the national Parliament has not the power to direct the States what to do on this matter, at least by meetings such as those of ATAC agreement can be reached on standards that can be written into the requirements for the manufacture of motor vehicles. Through the co-operation of the States and the Commonwealth, including its Territories, I have said we have today 22 design rules which set out to improve the safety standards of motor vehicles. This is a subject which has been worked on continually by State Ministers and by Federal departments in an endeavour to upgrade the general safety standards of motor vehicles. I refer to the design of the dashboard, the driving position, steering wheels and that sort of thing. Progress is being made on this matter. 
I just want to show what humbugs Opposition members are. If honourable members will give me time I will prove that point beyond question. I refer to page 1375 of Hansard of 23rd April 1969 which shows that in this chamber on that Friday afternoon the then Minister for Social Services was speaking on a Bill before the House. I will quote the whole of the objectionable part of what he said and compare it with and relate it to what happened this morning. All we need to do is substitute the word 'fascism' for the word 'communism'. This is what the then Minister had to say: 
 It has everything to do with the statement because it shows why it is difficult at this present moment to expand the operations of the Australian National Line. Unfortunately, the people who man the ships, although not traitors themselves, are under the control of traitors. Let me go further. I have spoken about the Korean affair. In this Vietnam affair at the present moment, because the Australian Labor Party is in alliance with the Communist Party . . . 
That was what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  had to say on 23rd April. I followed the honourable member immediately by saying - again I quote from Hansard: 
I raise a point of order. The statement by the Minister that the Australian Labor Party is in alli- ance with the Communist Party is offensive to me and I ask for its withdrawal. 
Now let us look at the arch humbug. The following then appears: 
by leave - I have sought leave to make a statement to the House on the present position in the planning to meet the future airport needs of Sydney. Over a long period of years honourable members have shown a deep interest in this matter, not only because of its importance in the overall planning and development of the Sydney region, but also because it is important in the national sense with Sydney as Australia's busiest airline centre and principal international gateway. The starting point in this planning must be a most careful assessment of the likely pattern of growth in the demand for air services between now and the turn of the century. A feature of aviation over the years has been the rapid rate of growth of this demand  and  the most recent experience has shown  no  change in this pattern. (Quorum formed) All the studies  so  far made point to the saturation of the present airport about the end of this decade.  There  is a clear need  for  a second airport and the timing for satisfying this need will depend on whether the present airport is expanded, and if so, the form and extent of the expansion. The planning for a  new  airport is therefore intimately related to the future of the present airport. 
There are many people  who  would like to see the present airport abandoned and all its airline traffic transferred  to  a new site. Against this proposition there are some important features of Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, including its proximity to the city and the substantial and unobstructed area of Botany Bay  on one  side of it. It also represents a large investment - nearly $200m and the cost of its replacement could be much higher. It seems obvious that the only way  in  which its ultimate closure to airline traffic could be contemplated would  be  if a  new  airport can be provided at one of the alternative sites closest to Sydney. The siting of a new airport near Sydney is a particularly difficult task. If it is to provide for air services efficiently, particularly domestic services, it should be located  on  the coastal plain reasonably near the city. In this area the terrain itself seriously restricts the number of possible sites, and also makes some alternatives very costly indeed. The extent of existing urban development and the proposals  for  new development also eliminate a number of otherwise suitable areas. 
Honourable members are well aware that  in  1971 the previous Government adopted the recommendations of a Commonwealth interdepartmental committee to set up jointly with the New South Wales Government a CommonwealthState committee to investigate, and make recommendations upon, the siting of a second airport and also upon the respective roles of the 2 airports in the future. The decision to set up this committee has been endorsed by the present Government. Another recommendation of that committee, which was also adopted at the same time, authorised the Department of Civil Aviation to engage consultants to carry out. at the cost of the Commonwealth, a benefit-cost evaluation of the alternatives available. The report on this evaluation is to be submitted to the CommonwealthState committee and made available to both Governments. After world-wide inquiries the Department of Civil Aviation engaged the very experienced firm, R. Travers Morgan and Partners of London, to carry out the benefit-cost study. In July 1972 the consultants commenced to assemble their team in Sydney, which now includes some 25 experts in the fields of economics, engineering, aviation, town planning, statistics and computers. A number of the team have been drawn from Australian Government and consulting organisations. Under its terms of reference, agreed by both Governments, the CommonwealthState committee was required to address itself to the alternative sites of Richmond and Somersby for a second airport, but without necessarily restricting itself to these locations if the committee considered that others merit detailed consideration. One of the first actions of the committee was to determine whether other sites should be examined. After careful inquiries, and on expert advice, the Committee unanimously agreed that the merits of all possible sites, including those already examined, be reviewed in the light of new technical information now available. Accordingly, in June 1972 the Commonwealth-State committee sought the agreement of the then Minister for Civil Aviation to examine all feasible sites for the new airport. 
I remind honourable members that the previous Government decided that Duffy's Forest and Wattamolla should not even be considered, and, at an earlier stage, Towra Point was excluded. These decisions were made before any substantial factual information was available to them. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Commonwealth-State committee received no response to their recommendation. The Liberal Government was not prepared to face up to the important issues involved. The consultants themselves, very early in their appraisal of the problem, made a firm recommendation of a similar nature to that of the Commonwealth-State committee. 
This was also referred to the Minister. And so 5 months went by and no decision was given in respect of either of these recommendations by the Liberal Government. Nevertheless, under the direction of the CommonwealthState committee, the consultants continued with the design of the benefit-cost study to commence as soon as a decision on the sites to be examined could be obtained. This work has now virtually been completed and from what I have learnt of it I am confident that this study will present an excellent appraisal of all the significant issues involved in the siting of a new airport, including environmental aspects. A decision on the sites to be considered must be made immediately in order to give an urgently needed focus for the study. I have already mentioned some of the particular difficulties in siting airport facilities near Sydney. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
by leave - The lives of all of us are constantly at risk each time we take to the roads, whether as motorists, cyclists or pedestrians. We have a wonderful but large country. We have over 5 million vehicles driving on more than half a million miles of roads. 
We have almost 3 million school children,  a  considerable proportion of whom are cyclists. Finally all Australians, more than 13 million of us, spend part of our time as pedestrians. Given the geographical distribution of our population and industry, safe and efficient transport is the life blood of our economic and social well being. The Australian community devotes about 20 per cent of the resources available to it to the provision of transport services. Nevertheless we managed to kill some 3,400 fellow Australians on our roads last year. 1 am always deeply shocked when I hear of the terrible deaths and injuries we inflict on one another on our roads. I find little consolation in the fact that injury producing accidents - that is, those resulting in injuries which require medical attention - occur only once in every 750,000 vehicle miles. This means that the complex road transport system involving the vehicle, the road environment and the road user and his social environment is working with a fair degree of efficiency. However, we cannot ignore the fact that there were about 90,000 people injured last year in road accidents. 
We have a mobile community and the realisation of the full potential of this great country will depend in large measure on retention of this mobility. The test is not whether we have with the benefit of compulsory seat belt wearing done better or worse than selected overseas countries; the test is whether we have done as well as we could. What troubles me most about all of this is that we do not mean to kill or maim our fellow Australians. Each tragedy is in this sense an accident but the accidents keep happening with frightening regularity. 
There are 2 things which we must recognise. First, we are seeking a high degree of safety and efficiency in this complex road transport system and we will achieve this only by a sustained professional approach. Second, it is little use shrugging our shoulders and saying it is primarily a matter for the States. The States have been doing what they could in their own way but this has not been good enough. The time is long overdue for the Australian Government to give a strong lead and support to the States in this regard. 
The Australian Government has decided that it must involve itself more directly in a more vigorous, co-ordinated and multi-disciplinary approach to road safety at the national level. The Australian Government has decided to do 5 main things. First, the toll on Australian roads is a national problem and as such warrants the urgent attention of this, the national Parliament. I will be moving for the reappointment of the Select Committee on Road Safety so that Parliament will be given an opportunity to play a full and proper part in developing policies in such vital areas as drinking and driving, speed, driver training and so on. 
Second, we will undertake, in co-operation with the States, a program of improvements at those locations where accidents keep occurring for one reason or another. We are in the process of commissioning a survey of what needs to be done at these locations with poor accident records. I trust that the States will co-operate fully with us in this national survey so that it will serve as a sound basis for action by all levels of government. Third, a central information service is to be provided for all those who are working in road safety. This will be located in the Department of Transport in Canberra but its resources will be available to people throughout the nation. Not only will the information service cover the local road safety scene in depth but details will also t-e provided of the latest developments overseas, including the results of research undertaken *n other road safety conscious countries. Fourth, we are increasing the technical and other resources devoted to vehicle safety, traffic codes, education and publicity and road safety research. Perhaps members will be interested in some of the research projects which will make up our comprehensive program. Studies recently have been completed on a review of vehicle design requirements in relation to top speed, the dynamic testing of seat belts, and a review of truck and bus safety in relation to road safety. Projects currently being undertaken include a sociological study of drivers involved in serious accidents; effectiveness of Victorian seat belt wearing legislation; review of United States traffic court practices; effectiveness of defensive driving courses - feasibility study; driver behaviour at 'stop' and give way' signs; effectiveness of Victorian 70 mph speed limit; improved seat belt design to increase acceptability: requirements for drivers' forward field of view; survey of vehicle inspection schemes; and the effect of vehicle colour on accidents - study design. 
Further studies are to be undertaken on the effects of severe penalties on road safety; effectiveness of licence suspension; sentencing of traffic offenders; company road safety schemes; road user behaviour as it relates to accidents; feasibility of evaluating the effectiveness of television films of driver error in accident-reduction; optimum licensing age; effectiveness of saturation publicity on television; improved seat belt design; study of injuries where seatbelts were worn; motor vehicle signalling systems; town planning guidelines for road safety guidelines for evaluating priority roads; local street traffic control; design of rural in-depth studies; Queensland accident and mileage study; and, New South Wales pedestrian accident study. From these facts it readily can be seen that there still is quite a field for road safety conscious people to investigate and to participate in. 
Finally, honourable members will recall the comprehensive report by the Expert Group on Road Safety headed by  Mr Justice  Meares tabled in this House late last year. I have asked the members of the Expert Group to continue their efforts at least until the Select Committee has had a chance to report. The Expert Group has already proved itself with its national review of the road accident situation. Much of the research now being undertaken stems from recommendations by the Expert Group. 1 look forward to receiving further advice from the Expert Group, especially in the important fields of road safety information and research. The majority of our drivers are under 40 years of age. The greatest number of deaths and injuries occur to motorists under the age of 30 years. To say nothing of the loss in human terms, the nation simply cannot afford this continuing carnage among the very citizens on whom we rely to build an even better Australia in the decades ahead. 
 I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
the main causes  of  the present high level  of  the road toll in Australia; 
the most effective means of achieving greater road safety in Australia; 
the particular aspects of the problem to which those concerned with road safety could most advantageously direct their efforts, and 
the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia in terms of - 
material damage; 
loss  of  man hours and earning capacity, and 
cost of treatment of accident victims. 
That the committee recognise  the  responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of  7  members,  4 to  be nominated by the Prime Minister,  2 to  be  nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker.  (.5) That the Prime Minister nominate one of the Government members of the committee as  Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to lime, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That 3 members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and 2 members of a subcommittee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
That the committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the Select Committee on Road Safety appointed during the Twenty-seventh Parliament. 
That recourse to technical and/or expert advice by the committee shall be subject to approval of the  Speaker. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
Honourable members will recall that a Select Committee on Road Safety was established by this House during the last Parliament. It was given very broad terms of reference but, in the event, it was unable to report. Much useful evidence was taken but it was not possible to hear from all the people working in road safety who wished to appear. The Committee also did not have an opportunity to consider the report of the expert group on road safety which was tabled late last year. The report is a national review of the road accident situation in Australia. The road toll is a national problem and warrants the urgent attention of the national Parliament. In moving for the reappointment of the Select Committee on Road Safety I make an earnest request to members of this House to assist me in developing effective measures to make our roads safer for all Australians. I commend the motion to honourable members. 
As the question was directed to the Treasurer I was not exactly listening to it. But I gather that the honourable member for Kingston wants to know the position in regard to the recent revaluation effects on airline charges. My understanding of the position is that after revaluation the International Air Transport Association was obliged to call a meeting of all interested airlines within a certain prescribed period - I think within about 21 days. I believe that a meeting was held of all interested airlines and an agreement was reached whereby in those countries which were affected by the revaluation the air charges were adjusted by between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. This took place at a time when there was a general review of air charges. So in actual fact there has been a revaluation and an adjustment of fares in overseas countries where the United States dollar rates apply. 
 The answer to  the honourable  member's question is as follows: 
It is the intention of the Government to present to Parliament a Bill amending the Australian National Airlines Act so that, among other things, TAA will have the necessary powers to provide accommodation for its passengers. The previous Government had also indicated that it would introduce similar legislation. This amendment to the Act is designed to place TAA on fair and equal terms with its competitor under the two-airline policy, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, which is free to engage in the provision of hotels and motels, etc. 
TAA has not yet submitted any proposals to the Government seeking approval to engage in hotel/motel activities and I am not aware of any detailed plans concerning this type of activity. 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
Connair has received, in respect of its financial year which is from 1st October to 30th September, the following amounts: 
The former Minster for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  negotiated an agreement with the Papua New Guinea Government in September last year which provided that a national airline should be set up comprising 25 per cent interest by the Papua New Guinea Government, 25 per cent by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, 25 per cent by Trans- Australia Airlines and 25 per cent by Qantas Airways Ltd. At that time I did not agree with the proposal. I thought that the airline should be owned completely by the Papua New Guinea Government, but because Chief Minister Somare and his Cabinet had agreed to it, I decided that I would not interfere and that 1 would accept those conditions. When I became the Minister I conveyed my decision to the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation and indicated to him that I was prepared to accept that agreement for only one reason - I repeat it - that the Chief Minister Somare had agreed to it. 
My personal reaction was that the airline should not involve Australia's 2 domestic operators as when independence was granted Papua New Guinea would become a foreign country. Therefore Qantas, the Australian foreign flag-carrier, should be the one to operate that service and to give whatever assistance was necessary. Qantas has had considerable experience in providing such assistance to developing countries. That is the background to what took place. The Minister for External Territories and I received advice in the period up to about a month ago that considerable lobbying was going on by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd in political circles in New Guinea. On Saturday morning approximately 4 weeks ago a conference was held in Sydney between the Minister for External Affairs, Chief Minister Somare and the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jephcott.  The opening advice to us by  Mr Somare  was to the effect that his Government had decided that it wanted a new agreement, and the new agreement was to be on the basis that the Papua New Guinea Government would hold 52 per cent of the shares in the new company, Qantas would be given 12 per cent, TAA would be given 12 per cent and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd would be given 24 per cent. My immediate reply to that was that I would not accept those conditions; that if there was to be any change in the arrangement it would revert to the basis of the Papua New Guinea Government having half the shares and Qantas having half the shares, and the 2 domestic operators would be excluded from the company altogether. I conveyed to  Mr Somare  that as far as the Minister for External Territories and I were concerned, speaking on behalf of the Government, we favoured the Papua New Guinea Government having total control of its own airline. I stand by that. That is what should apply in New Guinea. The Papua New Guinea Government should have complete control of its own airline. 
We gave him the assurance that we would take every step possible to ensure that Papua New Guinea got finance, technical advice and aircraft to operate the service. We want to see the Papua New Guinea Government operating its own airline. But  Mr Somare  insisted on Ansett Transport Industries being brought into the service and having a dominating role in the service. I said that this Government would not spend Australian money on developing airports and providing services in such circumstances. It should be borne in mind that S3m is to be spent on the Port Moresby airport, that $I0m is to be spent on a new airport at Nadzab, that the cost of operating Department of Civil Aviation services in Papua New Guinea is almost $llm and that the replacement value for equipment, etc., that is in the Territory is almost S50m. If the Opposition thinks for one moment that this Government will provide all those things for Ansett Transport Industries to have the dominating role it has another think coming. 
An agreement is pending between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government on the construction of a new railway line between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. My understanding of the position is that in May of last year the then Minister for Shipping and Transport forwarded to the South Australian Government the outline of an agreement for the building of that railway. The South Australian Government did not agree with it. It indicated that it wanted to have the right to determine what section of the existing line linking Alice Springs, Marree and Port Augusta could be closed at any time. It wanted to determine what would be the freight rates on the new line so that they would not be more than those applying in the South Australian railway system. The then Prims Minister replied in November last year rejecting that proposition. When I became Minister  for  Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation the South Australian Government wrote to me through the Prime Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister replied in February of this year indicating that this Government was adopting the same attitude as the former Government, that it considered the agreement to be a fair and reasonable one but that it was prepared to confer before any changes took place. At this stage the matter is still in the hands of the Premier of South Australia. 
 I wish to make a few comments on the remarks made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He made misleading statements in this House that were not true. I do not mind him coming in here and making statements that are true, but when he resorts to untruths I believe it is time that a member of the Government replied to him. In my opinion they were deliberate untruths. There has been a long standing practice in this place - certainly while I have been a member for the last 14J- years - that if an honourable member intends to make an attack on another honourable member he always pays him the courtesy of telling him in advance. 
If you did, you did not look very hard. The honourable member knows where my office is. My staff was in the office but he did not speak to them or tell them what he proposed to do. The honourable member for Griffith said that in the last 6 years Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has lost about $6m. I do not know whether that is true or false but it is pretty close to the mark. However this amount of $6m was lost by Evans Deakin when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, not during the time of the Australian Labor Party Government. If the honourable member for Griffith has any adverse comments to make about the $6m lost by Evans Deakin, he should refer them to members of the former Government which is guilty. The guilty men are not on this side of the House. 
The honourable member for Griffith said that I had indulged in parochialism and favouritism in granting the Australian National Line ship 'Seacoaster' to the Newcastle State Dockyard, which happens to be in my electorate. He said it was a foregone conclusion before the election that it would go to Evans Deakin. I am certain that the people of Adelaide will be delighted by that statement. Let us examine the facts. Five tenders were received. The Newcastle State Dockyard was the lowest tender. The next lowest tender was from Carrington Slipways Pty Ltd, which is also in Newcastle but in the electorate of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  It is just across the river from Newcastle. The next lowest tender was Sim higher than the State Dockyard tender and it was from Adelaide Ship Constructions. The next tender was from Evans Deakin and it was S2m more than the State Dockyard tender. The fifth tender was from Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. So the former Liberal-Country Party Government intended to allocate this order to Evans Deakin. In other words, it was a $2m handout to that company over and above, for example, the tender of Adelaide Ship Constructions. Is this favouritism? Is this the way to run a ship building industry? Does a government make handouts to its friends, which obviously was the intention of the Liberal-Country Party Government - a $2m handout? That is what the honourable member for Griffith was suggesting in his contribution today. As far as I am concerned work for which tenders are called will be allocated on the basis of the lowest tender and best delivery date. As far as I am concerned, that is the set-up. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When the previous Government introduced the Airlines Agreements Bill 1972 into this House of Representatives on 24th October 1972 the then Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, included in his second reading speech the following statement:  lt is the intention of this Government, therefore, to introduce in the first sittings of the new Parliament a Bill amending the Australian National Airlines Act so that there is no question about TransAustralia Airlines having the powers enabling it to engage in activities closely related to airline operation and to give effect to the Government's decisions. 
The Minister made it clear during the debate on the Bill that the matters referred to were such things as aviation engineering work for outside organisations, the handling of Commonwealth contracts, the establishment and operation of hotels and other kinds of accommodation, the establishment and operation of road transport services, the acquisition of subsidiaries or shareholdings in companies or the establishment of subsidiaries for the purposes of the Australian National Airlines Commission, aerial work and charter operations, and operations in Papua New Guinea after independence. The amendment of the Australian National Airlines Act to widen TAA's powers is one matter concerning which this Government is in complete agreement with the previous Government. It therefore has no hesitation in bringing forward this Bill, which is designed to give TAA the additional powers mentioned so that it will be in a fair and equitable position compared with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd in respect of its operations under the 2-airline policy. 1 need not go into the Bill in any detail. The main provisions deal with matters on which the Government and the Opposition are in agreement, and I need only comment briefly on certain items. Firstly, the Government believes that it ought to be possible to appoint 7 commissioners to run TAA, instead of 6 as at present, and that the Act should enable the General Manager to be appointed as a commissioner, with the same rights and responsibilities as other commissioners. Clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill are included for these purposes. Clause 5 sets out the basic functions of the Commission, lt largely restates existing functions in different language, but adds the power to transport passengers and goods by land as well as by air, or partly by each means, and to provide for the Commonwealth aviation, land transport and engineering services and other services which are within its resources. In effect, this is one of the provisions which the previous Govern ment indicated it would introduce. If TAA is to be in a position to compete effectively under the 2-airline policy, it must be able to provide aviation services within a State when it is authorised to do so by the State Government concerned. Clause 6 is designed to enable TAA to operate intrastate services, nol only in Queensland and Tasmania where it already has the power to do so, but in any State where the State Parliament refers the matter of air transport to the Commonwealth or adopts the relevant part of the Commonwealth Act. This provision is also- one which the previous Government would have had. to introduce in order to honour its undertakings given last year. 
Clause 7 inserts in the Act provisions enabling ing TAA to provide air and land transport services within a State, and to engage in other activities within a State when authorised to do so by State legislation. In addition, it provides for the other activities on which there is agreement that TAA should have full powers in such areas as aerial work operations: the operation of hotels and other forms of accommodation; joint operations with other carriers; air transport operations in Papua New Guinea, after that country becomes independent, under arrangements which are agreed between the Commonwealth and the Government of that country; and engineering services for outside organisations. The clause also restates the powers of the Commission to engage in activities incidental to its basic functions and in particular authorises it to participate in a company or partnership for the purposes of carrying out those functions. The remaining clauses of the Bill are designed to introduce amendments to the Act consequential upon the provisions I have mentioned, or to bring up-to-date the financial provisions of the Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I am aware that aircraft noise has been a major problem in all the suburbs in and around the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. One of the first things 1 did on becoming a Minister, in order to give these people some relief from that noise, was rigidly to enforce the curfew, particularly over the Christmas period. In previous years the aircraft had been allowed to operate into the late hours of the night and in the early morning. The airlines were instructed that they were to enforce the curfew rigidly. The result was that no aircraft breached the curfew and no passengers were left behind. This proved that it could have been done before and that it is a practical proposition. The same situation has applied on each subsequent public holiday. The airline companies have been directed to enforce the curfew rigidly, with one exception. This was at Easter when one of the airlines had a bad day. There was a number of breakdowns with no scheduled flights for the curfew hours. One airline was permitted to operate. I think the last flight was at 11 minutes past 11 p.m. The condition under which the company was granted that authority was that it conducted its operations over the bay. This meant that people were not disturbed in any way whatsoever. As far as flight plans are concerned, the airlines have been instructed to observe rigidly flight plans which direct aircraft away from people. On one occasion a church in Sydney was holding an important function. It wrote in advance with the result that on that day aircraft were directed away from the area of the function. We are doing ail we can to co-operate with organisations and councils to alleviate aircraft noise. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on an assessment of Tasmania's interstate transport problems. This report was prepared by the Bureau of Transport Economics. It may be of interest to honourable members that the recommendations of this report will be taken into consideration in the preparation of the Budget. 
I have received telegrams - and I know that other honourable members also have received telegrams - from a company, which has a string of hotels, objecting to a proposal to grant to TransAustralia Airlines authority to operate hotels and motels. One of the arguments which have been advanced against the proposal is that TAA has a distinct advantage over other companies which have similar operations inasmuch as TAA pays no taxes or rates. This is not true. Honourable members should be aware of the fact that TAA pays company tax. It pays local government rates and State taxes wherever they apply to its operations in the same way as they apply to and are paid by the people who are objecting to TAA being given authority to operate hotels and motels. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
There are 12 airports served by MacRobertson Miller in Western Australia with F28 aircraft. 
Only one of these airports has gravel runways. That airport also has a sealed runway 150 feet wide. Five of the airports have runways 100 feet wide and 2 of these also have runways 150 feet wide. 
No other jet aircraft currently used in regular public transport operations in Australia are cleared for operations from runways 100 feet wide, although some general aviation jet aircraft do operate from such runways. 
Insofar as runway surfaces and dimensions are concerned no special restrictions apply to F28 aircraft at the 12 airports served by MacRobertson Miller in Western Australia, except that operations are not permitted on gravel runways. 
It is true that I rescinded the previous Government's decision on the use of concrete and timber sleepers because I considered it to be a most political decision - indeed, a biased one. I will just give the honourable member some information. The Commonwealth Railways has called for tenders for sleepers, both concrete and timber, for the section of the railway line between Port Pirie and Port Augusta and on the trans-continential section adjacent to Port Augusta. Tenders will close on 5 June, at which time the Bureau of Transport Economics will take into consideration the prices tendered by the manufacturers of concrete sleepers and the suppliers of timber sleepers. The price and the technical properties of both types of sleeper will be taken into consideration. Honourable members should bear in mind that both industries involved are Australian industries employing Australian labour. The industry which is considered to produce the most economic, and able to supply the best form of sleeper will be the one chosen to fulfil the order. 
It is true that approximately a fortnight ago a survey was commenced in Brisbane to determine the passenger requirements of the new electrification of the urban transport system in the Brisbane city area. This is the. result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State to ascertain what would be expected by the people who will be using that railway. It is being undertaken to ascertain, for example whether they want air-conditioning and what type of carriage they want. In fact the survey is unique. It is one of the first surveys of its type ever conducted in Australia and we think that probably it is the first of its type conducted in the world to find out what the commuter really wants to be incorporated into a new system that is being introduced. The honourable member will recall that in February this year I made a statement on behalf of the Government in which I said that it is prepared to assist in upgrading public transport on the basis of $2 to $1. All the State governments have submitted their programs. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Will the Minister speak into the microphone at the table. 
I  apologise to members of the Opposition. I understand their problem of not being able to hear. When  I  was on the Opposition side  I  could not hear when a Minister faced in a certain direction while speaking. Honourable members will recall that in February this year 1 made a statement on behalf of the Government in which I said that we propose to make funds available to the States, on the basis of $2 to $1, for the upgrading of their urban transport systems. All of the States have submitted their programs to me and these are in the. process of examination by my Department. A program is to be prepared for inclusion in the next Budget From memory, the Queensland Government submitted a program of about $60m for the Brisbane area. On the ratio of $2 for  SI,  the Commonwealth contribution would be approximately $40m. As a result, the electrification of the Brisbane urban system could be commenced and its buses and other urban transport facilities could be upgraded. 
During the second-reading debate many statements were made which were, in effect, attempts at drawing red herrings across the trail. Honourable members spoke of diamond mines and similar operations suggesting what could happen if one of the parties to the 2-airline agreement discovered a diamond mine. They suggested that Trans-Australia Airlines could set up a chain of hotels and motels, establish tourist resorts and take over almost every transport organisation in Australia today. From the way they spoke one could imagine that TAA could go even further. But that is not the true position. Had I had the opportunity of closing the secondreading debate I would have replied to some of those statements, and it would have been at a time earlier than midnight tonight. 
That is right; the Government gagged the debate. Had it not done so the debate would have continued until probably the time for adjournment of the House. The Government was not prepared to allow that situation to develop. What the Government is trying to achieve by this Bill is the right for TAA to operate on equal terms with its competitor, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. The Government is trying to carry out the terms of the letter which was written to  Sir Frederick  Scherger by the former Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator 
Cotton, in which he agreed with a number of points which were put to him by  Sir Frederick  Scherger, the  Chairman  of the Australian National Airlines Commission. The letter deals with aviation, Commonwealth contracts, tourist accommodation, road transport services, subsidiaries, aerial work, charter operations, investment of moneys not immediately required, operations in Papua New Guinea after independence and amendments to the general financial arrangements. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is Opposition spokesman on this matter, dealt with the question of road transport. It is agreed that the Bill is written in the broadest terms so that there will be no ambiguity about what TAA can or cannot do in the field of transport. The Government wants TAA to be able to do what its competitor is able to do, namely, to operate tourer buses and road transport in association with its airline activities. Ansett Transport Industries operates in a much broader field than that.  1  do not have in mind that TAA will take over any furniture-carrying organisation, as has been done by ATI. The Government is not setting out to achieve that objective. However this clause, as it is now worded, will allow TAA to operate and do all things which are necessary with respect to tourer buses and activities of that type. To show where the Government stood I made a brief statement on the foreshadowed amendment during the second-reading debate. This was to enable members of the Opposition to know what the Government was aiming to do. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  more than covers the position because it would mean that TAA would not be able to extend its activities. By an amendment which the Government will move later TAA will be required to break up its accounts into 2 sections, one covering aviation operations or its airline operations and the other its other operations. Ansett Transport Industries is required to do this by an amendment to the legislation moved by the previous Government when it was in office. 
The Government is trying to achieve what we believe was the agreement entered into between the previous Government, TAA and ATI. As its part of the bargain ATI has an open-ended agreement for an extension of the 2-airline agreement. All the Government is trying to do is to give TAA what it was  promised. It might be of interest to honourable members if I were to incorporate in Hansard a copy of the letters from  Sir Frederick  Scherger to  Sir Donald  Anderson, the Director-General of Civil Aviation, and the reply by  Senator Cotton,  the then Minister for Civil Aviation. I am prepared to incorporate copies of those letters in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Is  the Minister seeking leave to have them incorporated? 
Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) -  13 October 1972 

 Sir Donald Anderson, C.B.E., 
Director-General of Civil Aviation, 
Aviation House, 188 Queen Street, 
Melbourne 3000. 
Dear  Sir Donald, 
Your letter of 13 October advised that the Minister had requested that the Commission advise the specific assurances required to enable it to accept the proposed Airlines Agreements, so that the Commission's proposals could be submitted to the Government for consideration. 
As advised in my earlier letter, the Commission believes that to be capable of effective competition within the Government's policy, it is necessary for the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-72 to be amended so as to remove legal doubt as to the powers of the Commission to engage in activities closely related to airline operation, and to have normal commercial powers to invest moneys not immediately required. The Commission believes the extension of its powers to be an integral part of the Government's revised policy and the necessary legislative amendments should be introduced at the same time as the Airlines Agreements are extended. 
Accordingly, the legislative amendments necessary to enable the Commission to accept the proposed Agreements and the timing thereof have been set out in detail in the attachment. 
I would appreciate you forwarding these advices to the Minister for consideration by the Government. 
My earlier letter dated 11 October set out certain amendments required to the proposed Airlines Agreements, which are under consideration by your Department. 
As soon as a reply is received on these two matters, the Commission, as requested, should be able to advise promptly as to whether the extended Airlines Agreement is acceptable. 
Yours sincerely, 
R. W. SCHERGER, 
Chairman 
by leave - I wish to make a very brief statement on this Bill which may be of interest to honourable members, particularly when they come to deal with the clauses in Committee. As honourable members will be aware, I have circulated an amendment which the Government proposes to move in the Committee stage so that at least honourable members will have it on record. It is obvious that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  wants to deal with it at this stage. I am happy to have that occur. The Government wants to make clear that the Bill now before Parliament is no different in substance or design from that which the former Liberal Government promised Trans-Australian Airlines last August and also in October. It might assist the progress of this debate if I were to indicate now that the Government proposes to suggest several amendments during the Committee stage of the Bill that will put our intention beyond any reasonable doubt. These amendments arise out of representations that have been made to me in the past few days by various organisations and individuals who had what I think were unfounded concerns about how some of the provisions of the Bill might be used. Therefore we propose to amend the Bill so as to provide that TAA will be required to show separately the results of its aviation and non-aviation activities in its annual accounts which are tabled in this Parliament. This will put it on the same basis as is Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, which is now required to do this under the recently amended Airlines Agreements Act. 
We also propose to show clearly that our only desire is to see that TAA is able to compete more effectively and fairly with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. We will propose an amendment which will ensure that TAA's activities in the areas of accommodation, transport and engineering are related to the level of activity by ATI in these areas. As an example. ATI's most recent accounts disclose that its total revenue in 1971-72 was $208m, including airline revenue of $150m. On this basis the amendment would allow TAA to plan its operations for ensuing years on the basis that it would be permissible to earn non-aviation revenue in the same proportion. This will show that we do not intend to allow TAA to swallow up various other interests in the accommodation, engineering and transport fields. I hope that by foreshadowing these amendments at this stage of the debate the way .might now be clear for the Opposition to honour its public promise of last August, which it repeated in writing to TAA last October, and join with the Government in passing this Bill which is designed to ensure that Australia has a fully competitive, evenhanded 2-airline system. 
1 thank the Committee. At this stage I should like to put on record a copy of a letter which I received today from  Sir Frederick  Scherger but I do not know whether I have time to quote it fully. In this letter to me  Sir Frederick  confirmed that the agreement - the Bill that we are debating here today - is in conformity with what he understood the agreement between himself and Ansett Transport Industries provided through the legislation of the then Government in October of last year. People have said that this is not what was proposed, but here is the man who was one of the central figures in it. Here is the man who refused to sign the agreement in the initial stages until such time as was written into the Bill those things which we are putting forward to the Parliament today in the form of the amendments that this Bill provides for. 
An article in today's 'Australian' states: 

 Sir Peter Abeles said last night be could see nothing sinister in the Federal Government plans to widen the powers of TAA. 
The statement by  Sir Peter,  a director of Ansett Transport Industries and chief executive of TNT, a major shareholder in the company, is in direct conflict with the attitude of the Ansett organisation. 
If I might say so, the largest shareholder in ATI is in conflict with what Opposition members have been saying here today, and the red herrings that they have been attempting to draw across the Bill. As I said in my second reading speech, I took it that this would be a formal Bill and one on which there would be very little debate because I considered that all I was doing was to put into operation those things which the former Government had promised TAA. The drafting of this Bill was carried out in consultation with  Sir Frederick  Scherger. What has gone into this Bill has been with his knowledge and approval his interpretation of what was promised to TAA. 
We are setting out to try to word the various amendments which we are proposing in the Bill in such a way as to allow TAA to enter into the operation of tourer buses and to carry goods and passengers if need be in relation to its airline activities. Ansett can do this; why cannot TAA do the same? We believe that the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  will place restrictions on TAA. We do not want that to happen. We want TAA to have the opportunity of doing the things which ATI are doing. To prove our sincerity I gave the Opposition notice of the amendment which I propose to move at a later stage which will place the restraint on TAA whereby it cannot become this great monstrous transport operator or the operator of chains and chains of hotels. I do not want to be the Minister of the biggest string of pubs in Australia. What I want to be is the Minister in charge of the airline operating and competing with its competitor on fair and equal terms. That is all we are asking for. 
-The Government accepts the compromise amendment reached between the Government and the Opposition. In the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  proposed subsection 1 (b) states:   . . to provide land transport accommodation . . . 
That should read: '. . . to provide land transport, accommodation . . .' The Government accepts the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) and (ii) Four of the six cannons from Captain Cook's ship 'Endeavour' were located and recovered by an expedition organised by the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, U.S.A. The remaining two were located and recovered by  Mr V.  Vlasoff under contract to the Australian Government. 
The cast iron cannons were restored by the Defence Standards Laboratory in Melbourne. 
The coral was mechanically removed, the residual chlorides removed by an electro-osmosis process, the cannons washed in distilled water, dried and the surfaces sealed with micro-crystalline wax. Full details of the restoration are given in Defence Standards Laboratory Report No. 308. 
One cannon, mounted on a carriage built by the Department of Transport, was presented to each of the following: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) and (ii) The 'Endeavour' anchor was located and recovered by a private expedition led by  Mr 
David Hume of Melbourne. The two anchors from Matthew Flinders' ship 'Investigator' were located by an expedition from the Underwater Explorers' Club of South Australia and recovery was carried out by this expedition and by the Commonwealth Lighthouse vessel 'Cape Don'. 
The 'Endeavour' anchor is being restored at the Defence Standards Laboratory in Melbourne. The Investigator' anchors are currently being restored at the Western Australian Museum Conservation Laboratory in Fremantle. 
Restoration processes involving the wrought iron anchors include - radiographic examination, removal of the encrustations, products of corrosion and the chloride by mechanical, chemical and/or electrolytic methods, followed by thorough washing and drying and the surfaces sealed with a suitable coating. 
The anchors are being restored in Melbourne and Fremantle on behalf of the Australian Government. 
Ship Wrecks off Australian Coast  (Question No. 502) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Some hundreds of vessels have been wrecked off the Australian coast Anchors or other items have been recovered from many of them. Such items are in the possession of the Australian Government, State Governments, Australian cities and towns and are displayed in museums or elsewhere. An indeterminate number of items are in the possession of private individuals and Historical Societies. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have stated that, following the entry of Trans-Australia Airlines on the Perth-Darwin route, the airline will introduce economy class fares on this service, a facility which has not previously, been made available by MacRobertson Miller Airline services. 
Economy class fares are introduced by the airlines when they consider that this step will generate sufficient additional traffic and revenue to offset revenue lost through the diversion of first class traffic to economy class travel. This principle applies throughout Australia, including the Northern Territory. 
The Government does not contemplate encouraging the adoption of fares which will result in additional uneconomic air services requiring governmental financial support at the expense of the general taxpayer. 
Executions in Yugoslavia (Question No. 517) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is proposed to purchase land for the long term development of Brisbane's second airline airport. 
and (3) It is evident that the site will be to the north of Brisbane but the precise location has yet to be determined in consultation with State and Local Government interests. It will be necessary not only to reserve this land for future aviation purposes but also to ensure that there is appropriate long term land use zoning in nearby areas. 
and (5) The report will be published when the earlier mentioned detailed problems are resolved. 
The Department of Civil Aviation will continue to work closely with the Departments of the Environment and Conservation, Urban and Regional Development, Services and Property, as well as the appropriate State and Local Government authorities. 
It is true that preference has been given to Australian industries in respect of this matter. In fact, one of my first jobs when I became Minister for Transport was to cancel an order which was to have been placed with a Japanese company to supply axles. Bradford Kendall Ltd had a part of the contract and a part of it was to go to Japan. The result is that the whole set - wheels and axles - will now be built in Australian workshops. Bradford Kendall has got the total contract. In March this year it received a contract for 528 sets at a cost of $300,000. I know of the honourable member's interest in this matter because part of this work was subcontracted to Walkers Ltd in Maryborough. That company is to supply the axles at a cost of $112,000. Very shortly an order for an additional 200 sets will be placed with Bradford Kendall, and this will bring the value of the total contract to $414,000 and Walker's portion of it to $154,000. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now read a second time.  This Bill seeks the approval of the Parliament to an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania, embodying arrangements for a Commonwealth contribution of $1.355m towards the cost of construction of a seaport at Grassy, King Island. The Bill also seeks the necessary authorisation of expenditure for the purposes of the Agreement. The proposed assistance for this project was agreed by the former Prime Minister in March 1972 and an offer made to the Tasmanian Premier of the day. Following the change in the Tasmanian Government in April 1972, the new Premier reiterated his State's acceptance of the Commonwealth offer. 
The proposed port, situated at Little Grassy Bay on the south-east coast of King Island, is being developed as an alternative to the existing port of Currie. Over the years, shipping operators have found difficulty in providing a reliable, economic service to King Island owing to the hazards of entering or leaving the port of Currie in bad weather. There are also severe restrictions on the size of vessels able to use that port. Development of a more sheltered port at Grassy will enable larger vessels to operate on a more regular basis. The Commonwealth has had a special interest in King Island since the war service land settlement scheme was established on the Island in conjunction with the Tasmanian Government. From 1963 until April last year the Australian Government provided financial assistance towards the shipping service linking the Island with the Australian mainland. 
Work on the port at Little Grassy Bay is nearing completion. Peko Wallsend Ltd, the parent company of King Island Scheelite Ltd, which operates a scheelite mine close to the port site, is acting on behalf of the Tasmanian Government as major contractor and coordinator of contracts. Overburden and rock from the mine are being used in the construction of the main breakwater. The company has also provided finance for a 20 ton crane. The State of Tasmania will bear full responsibility for the maintenance and technical and economic viability of the port and its installations. The port will be operated for the State Government by the Marine Board of King 
Island. Port facilities include a stern loading ramp for roll-on roll-off cargoes. 
The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 1.848m. Of this $110,000 is by way of a loan from Peko Wallsend Ltd and $383,000 was spent by the State in 1970-71. The Australian Government will provide the balance of $1.355m. The Agreement incorporated in this Bill provides for this amount in the form of a non-repayable grant of $677,500 and an interest bearing loan of $677,500 repayable over 15 years. The detailed terms of the Agreement follow the usual lines for projects of this nature and include provisions to ensure the necessary co-operation between the Commonwealth and the State in respect of control of expenditure, repayments and interest. I commend the Bill to the House and 1 hope that it receives a much smoother passage than did the previous piece of legislation which I picked up from the former Government. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment in this case. Whilst we would have liked very much to have had this clause as originally drafted in the Bill, in my second reading speech I indicated to honourable members that the object of the Government was to draft a Bill which we considered was in accordance with the intention of the former Government, to honour a promise which had been given to  Sir 
Frederick Scherger, the  Chairman  of the Australian National Airlines Commission and the other commissioners. At the time when the assurance was given this particular clause would not have been effective and was not then part of the thinking nor was it part of the assurances which were given to the  Chairman  at that time by my predecessor. In endeavouring to honour the promise which was given, the Government is prepared to accept the Opposition's amendment. We do not intend to oppose it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
I ask for leave to resubmit clause 5. 
I move the following amendment to the clause as previously agreed to: 
Omit paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) of proposed section 19, substitute the following paragraph: 
to engage in other activities to the extent that they are within the limits of the powers of the Commission under a provision of this Act other than this section; and'. 
The position is that when the Bill was dealt with previously, we inserted a compromise amendment which from a drafting point of view was not as good as might have been expected. We have now agreed to this amendment. 
The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment and is prepared to support it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 The Government accepts the amendment moved by the Opposition. This proposed section relies on the corporation powers to permit Trans-Australia Airlines to operate intrastate. It is quite recent thinking to rely on this head of power. This proposed section has undoubtedly raised considerable opposition to the Bill and in practical terms it may well be that the Government may not wish TAA to operate intrastate unless it has a reference by the relevant State parliaments. As I said in my remarks on a similar clause, we are setting out to honour a promise that was given by my predecessor to TAA as part of the amendments to the 2-airline agreement which went through last year. As this is recent thinking and an innovation as far as the powers of the Commonwealth are concerned, and so that the Bill can be proceeded with - through both Houses, I hope - the Government is prepared to accept this amendment. It is new thinking; it was not the considered position when the promises were given late last year. For that reason we propose to accept the Opposition's amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland) - by leave - I move: 
Omit paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) of proposed section 19d. 
Our purpose in moving this amendment is similar to that for the amendments which have been accepted. It was this paragraph that really frightened in particular the people in the road transport, hotel and motel industries who were unaware of the complete power of it until a High Court challenge ensued. Therefore we seek acceptance of this amendment. 
 For reasons similar to those given when accepting the amendments moved earlier, the Government accepts this amendment moved by the Opposition. People stirred up a lot of red herrings in an endeavour to create a fear complex about what the Government was proposing to do under this proposed section. For example, it was said that we were going to take over all crop dusting. I think that an airline of the magnitude of TAA would not be interested in crop dusting. The paragraph was intended simply to give us the right to do aerial work within the States without having it referred by the particular State government. Therefore, in order to get a Bill that honours the promises which were given to the Australian National Airlines Commission, we accept the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment. I reiterate that this is still new thinking so far as the powers of the Corporation are concerned. I shall repeat what I said recently when I appeared on a television program with the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon):  I have no desire to become the Minister in charge of the biggest string of hotels - I think I said 'pubs' at the time - in Australia. 
That would be a matter for decision by the Government and I believe the. Government would welcome it. We accept the amendment for the simple reason that this was not included in the promises made by my predecessor. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 I move: 
Omit proposed section 19G, substitute the following section: 19g. Upon Papua New Guinea becoming an independent country and the Commonwealth and the Government of that country entering into arrangements for the transport, for reward, by the Commission of passengers and goods by air between places in that country or between places in that country and places outside Australia and that country, the Commission may transport passengers and goods in accordance wilh those arrangements'. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  just stated, a satisfactory arrangement has been entered into between the Chief Minister for Papua New Guinea, the Minister for Transport in Papua New Guinea, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  and myself. That happened last Friday. There was complete understanding. The wording of the present Bill is not so good as could be expected. I accept the criticism levelled by the Opposition during the second reading debate about the use of the word 'if. lt did give the wrong impression. There is no intention on the part of this Government to delay independence for Papua New Guinea. The word 'if was used at the time, but the amendment I have moved meets the requirements of the Bill, the Opposition and the Government. 
 I ask the Opposition to consider seriously letting this clause stand as printed. No doubt there are difficulties about what is a commercial rate of interest. As the Minister concerned, I accept the situation. In fact, after becoming the Minister I issued a directive to the Commission about interest rates. The Government accepts in principle that Trans-Australia Airlines should trade on equal terms with and under similar conditions to its competitor. As I have said time and again in this place and outside, the Government is prepared to accept an even handed 2 airline system in which if it is good enough for Ansett Transport Indus tries to do something. It is good enough for TAA. I do not think that we can be any fairer than that. It is for that reason that in regard to this clause I am prepared to give an assurance that the Government will charge the Commission a rate of interest not less than that which a first class borrower would have to pay on the open market. 
This undertaking will not apply to borrowings by the Commission from the Commonwealth in cases where borrowings were from the Commonwealth in a formal sense only; that is to say, where the Commonwealth had negotiated a loan in its name on the open market, within Australia or overseas, and had then passed on the proceeds of such loan at the rates at which it had borrowed the money. Bills come into this House periodically relating to arrangements between aircraft manufacturers and their government's exportimport bank. For example, at different times there are negotiations to buy Boeing aircraft. Invariably part of the agreement to purchase provides for the airline to pay, say, 20 per cent of the cost of the aircraft, the Exportimport Bank of the United States to make the remainder available. That money is borrowed by the Commonwealth Government. It is an official loan to the Commonwealth, the Australian Government. In turn, this Government lends the money to TAA or to Qantas Airlines Ltd, as the case may be. In recent years Ansett Transport Industries likewise has been gaining the benefit of these government to government loans. 
That is what I refer to in the latter part of my earlier statement when I mentioned the Commonwealth borrowing money and then transferring the loan to TAA or to Qantas. I referred to borrowings by a first class borrower. I believe that the Commonwealth of Australia is a first class borrower and that it can obtain loan moneys in circumstances which will result in reasonable rates of interest being obtained. It could be said that we should make the rate 1 per cent in excess of the long term bond rate. For what is termed a first class borrower that is how the interest would work out - at about 1 per cent over the long term bond rate. I give the Opposition an assurance that as TAA is now moving into other fields the Government will place TAA in similar conditions of operation and money raising as its competitor. Under those terms I feel the Bill, as drafted, meets the requirements. 
 I can give the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  every assurance that his fears are unfounded. We have no hidden secret reserves that we want want to pull out and invest in loans at 10 per cent, in hire purchase companies or anything else. I would appreciate it if the honourable member would withdraw the amendment. There is nothing to worry about. 
The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment. I agree that the Bill as it is worded could give the impression that the Government was seeking to exempt Trans-Australia Airlines from all forms of taxation. That was never our intention and I believe it was never the intention of the former Government. The words in this part of the Bill are in the records of the negotiations and discussions which took place between the former Government and its departmental officers. All that the draftsman did, with my approval, was to incorporate in the Bill what appeared to have been the policy of the Treasury at that time. This is actually a Treasury clause. The Treasury has a great deal of say, as the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  would know, in the drafting of financial clauses in all Bills whether they relate to TAA, the Australian National Line or to any other authority. It is the Treasury which has the most of the say in these types of provisions. My predecessor would have been advised along the line and in all probability a clause would have been written into the new Bill in line with the clause that is now in the Bill. I am prepared to accept the amendment because it does clearly state the position. It will allay the fears of people who are in competition with TAA, and who have to pay taxes, that TAA will not be subject to these charges. 
I want to cite a few figures to show that TAA does pay taxes. The following is a list of some of the taxes paid by TAA for the financial year 1971-72: Municipal rates $103,292; water rates $72,177; garbage $2,064 and land tax $5,973. The Department of Civil Aviation paid a total amount of $25,697 for its water, municipal and sewerage rates. The total amount paid by both TAA and DCA was $209,203. If honourable members were to examine the annual reports of TAA they would find, for example, in the report for 1971-72 that TAA paid income tax amounting to $4,562,000, payroll tax of $1,311,000 and sales tax amounting to $420,000. That shows that even in the Federal field TAA pays taxes. I believe that it does not meet about $12,000 in stamp duty by reason of some State arrangements. So in actual fact this is the only tax from which TAA is excluded or exempted. 
If the proposed amendment to the Bill meets the position and explains the position in more detail, I am quite happy to accept it. It does not destroy the functions we intend TAA to carry out. The complaint of road transport operators was that TAA would be in competition with them; that they would be paying State registration fees, State maintenance tax and whatever other taxes a State government was likely to impose on them, and TAA would not. This is not true. TAA will be paying, and does pay at the present time, all of those taxes. TAA pays the normal registration fees that are required to be paid on all of its vehicles in the State in which they operate. We do not propose to change that situation; we never intended to change that situation. 
If TAA moves into the hotel field as part of its operations, it will pay the same taxes as do its competitors. It will be paying the licensing fees that are levied by the State licensing courts. In reality the amendment docs not change anything but we agree with the Opposition that it states the position much more clearly than it is stated in the Bill. If the Government had not changed at the end of last year and we were still in Opposition I might have moved the same amendment to clarify the position, although I doubt that I would have because I realise and accept the situation that TAA does pay taxes. However, it is obvious that people outside who do not know the operations of TAA as well as we do feel that they will be at a distinct disadvantage. The amendment allays those fears and I accept it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 17 agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
Section 40 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by adding at the end of paragraph (c) of subsection (2) the word 'and'; and 
by omitting paragraph (d) of sub-section (2). 
 I move: 
Before paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph: (aa) by inserting after sub-section (1) the following sub-section: "(1 a) The report shall disclose separately the results of activities of the Commission other than the operation of air services.";'. 
The intention of this amendment is to divide the operations of Trans-Australia Airlines into its airline activities and its associated or nonairline activities. This is in line with what Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is required to do. 
 The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 18a. 
 The Government accepts the Opposition's amendment. At no time has the Government had in mind that Trans-Australia 
Airlines, the Minister or the regulations would act in any discriminatory manner or unfairly to any of its competitors. This amendment is completely in line with our policy of having an evenhanded 2-airline agreement under which the 2 airlines will be operating on identical terms. At present Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has a very decided advantage over TAA in intrastate operations. 1 am hopeful that in the very near future, as was promised by my predecessor, TAA will be operating on the PerthPort Hedland-Darwin run. This will be an improvement. I hope also that other facilities will be provided to TAA in respect of intrastate operations. This will help to bring the 2 airlines into balance so that they can operate on equal terms. 
Whilst I want to ensure that the 2 airlines have equal access to intrastate traffic, I am not silly enough to suggest for one second that in cases where there is not sufficient work for both airlines they should both operate and do so at a loss. The industry should be rationalised so that in cases where there is sufficient work and need for only one airline the management of both - that is, the directors of ATI and the commissioners of the Australian National Airlines Commission - can sit down and work out a fair and reasonable distribution of the business available. In this way there will be an even-handed 2-airline agreement. The Government has no intention of acting in a discriminatory manner or unfairly against ATI or any similar competitor. 
 The provision of the Bill dealing with Trans-Australia Airlines operating irrespective of what a State government is prepared to refer to it was deleted in the earlier consideration of the Bill. That has already been disposed of. I repeat, for the information of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  my belief that if we are to have a genuine 2-airline system the 2 airlines should have equal access to all traffic. Where the business that is available is not sufficient to provide an economic operation by both airlines there should be a rationalisation of air services throughout the Commonwealth; that is, off the main trunk routes. On the main trunk routes there is sufficient traffic for both airlines, but off the main trunk routes there should be rationalisation so that the 2 airlines have equal access to the business available. The spokesman for the Opposition in this debate, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  said after moving this amendment that it dealt with fair play. He said that there should be no unfair treatment. I have given him that assurance and have said further that I believe that under the Government's policy of an even-handed 2-airline system the 2 airlines should have equal access to all the business that is available throughout the Commonwealth. 
 I place on record my appreciation of the efforts of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  but particularly the honourable member for Gippsland who did the spade work in drafting these amendments. I know that the honourable member for Farrer was in the background and in constant consultation with him. I extend my appreciation also to the  2  officers from my Department -  Mr Long  and  Mr Smith  - for the work they have put into this matter. We have spent a pretty solid couple of days working out what should and should not go into the Bill and working out a basis for a Bill which could be passed through this House and accepted by the Senate tomorrow or whenever it is debated in that place.  1  believe that the Bill represents the wishes of the former Government and contains what it would have been prepared to write into the Bill. Frankly, there were a few parts of the Bill on which I thought we could not agree, but we worked them out to everyone's satisfaction. I thank the honourable members concerned. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker- - 
I will endeavour to give the House all the facts. The position is that there have been meetings in Brisbane between trade unions and employees of Evans Deakin Industries Pty Ltd. There have been meetings also between the Queensland Trades and Labour Council, the unions and the management of Evans Deakin. The  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council,  Mr Egerton,  has kept me fully informed about what is happening and what has taken place. As late as yesterday he telephoned me and told me that the unions and the management bad reached agreement and that he expects in future a much better understanding between the management of Evans Deakin and the unions involved with employees of that company. He is confident that the bad relationship which existed for many years will be overcome because of this better understanding between the employer and the unions. On this basis there is no reason in the world why the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. cannot place the order for an oil rig or why the shipyard should noi accept the order and get on with the job of building the rig. 
Last week the Government gave both the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. and Evans Deakin an assurance that it would not require them to proceed with the bonding which the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. had required and that as a one-off decision and to ensure that Evans Deakin did get the order to build the oil drilling rig, the Government had agreed to what is commonly known in the shipbuilding world as a backtoback agreement. Under this agreement the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. will place an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board to build a rig and the Board in turn will place an order with the Evans Deakin shipyard to build the rig. This will eliminate the need for a bonding. This was the system which prevailed for many years in the shipbuilding industry, which the former Government abandoned. To ensure thai Evans Deakin gets the job of building the rig the Government as a one-off decision decided to accept a back-to-back contract. This is just one of the numerous decisions which have been taken to ensure that Evans Deakin gets the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. oil rig contract and is not forced into a position where, either voluntarily or otherwise, it baa to close the yard. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on freight transport to north-west Australia 1975-1990. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports of the Australian delegations to the International Labour Conference fifty-sixth session, 1971 and fiftyseventh session, 1972. 
 in reply - After listening to that humorous speech by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and taking into consideration that he has a reputation in this House of being a dour old campaigner with no humour in his soul, to sit and listen to his speech interspersed with giggles and laughter by him one can understand just why he made the speech that he did make. One could honestly believe that he was a new member in this House who had had nothing whatever to do with the 'Straitsman'. Yet when the Grassy port was mentioned the honourable member said: 'Oh, that was mine.' He poked out his chest. But what he did not do was to tell us what went on in the last  6  months of his reign as Minister for Shipping and Transport. He was in charge of that portfolio when Captain Houfe brought this ship into service on  1  May  1972  and in the  7  weeks in which it operated the company allegedly lost  $90,000.  What did the honourable member for Gippsland and the former Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  do about this matter? I almost forgot about the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who also made one of bis hypocritical speeches in this House tonight in which he criticised me for what I have allegedly not done in this matter. Yet they are the guilty men. You know that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and everyone else knows that they were the people who allowed- 
In reply to the question of the honourable member about my decision to recommend to Cabinet the appointment of  Mr John  Egerton to the Board of Qantas, I am very pleased to have had the opportunity of recommending him for that position. I was appalled at the comment by the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that this was a case of jobs for the boys. 
I have and they all came out on my side, not on yours. A question was placed on notice by the honourable member for Grayndler and an answer was given on 10 March 1971. The answer which the honourable member received took up 48 pages of Hansard. It set out details of committees, boards, commissions and so on which the Opposition when it was in government was responsible for appointing. If honourable members were to go through that list they would find that with the exception of cases where trade unionists were nominated specifically to be a part of those committees - that is, the trade unionist had to be a part of a committee such as the manning scale committees in my own Department, the tradesmen's rights committees within the Department of Labour and the like, on which there had to be employer and employee representation - I will defy any member of the Opposition to name more- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to information available to my Department, there were no increases In public transport changes on railway, bus and ferry services operated by the New South Wales Government during the financial year 1970-71 and the 9 months ending 31 March 1973. The following increases applied to the above services during 1971-72: 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member will be aware, it is the practice to publish research studies in Departmental 
Publications and in some cases in professional journals. I understand a copy of a Departmental Publication entitled 'Labour Publications and Supplementary Information' was distributed to each member of Parliament recently. It details the published information available on a large number of labour questions. If there is any aspect in which the honourable member is particularly interested arrangements will be made to provide him with more comprehensive information. 
A list of other research projects initiated but not yet published is being compiled and as soon as the list is completed that information will be conveyed to the honourable member. 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I am informed that the Minister for Labour continues to receive essentially the same reports which were provided by the Department to him when he was Minister. The honourable member will also know that some of these have been made public and some have not. The possibility of the release of further information is under examination: for example in the area of Labour Market Information the publication of additional information will be considered in the light of such recommendations as may be made by the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service statistics which was appointed to inquire into this area of the Department's activities. 
The honourable member will be interested to learn that arrangements are in hand for the production of an Annual Report of the Department's operations as from the commencement of the 1973-74 financial year. It is proposed to table the Report in Parliament each year to give a comprehensive and meaningful picture. 
Part-time Employment  (Question No.  63) 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I am advised that the information sought by the honourable member in his question No. 174 in respect of the Department of Labour is as follows: 
Number of buildings occupied by the Department of Labour but not owned by the Commonwealth: 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
to (4) ILO Convention No. 103- Maternity Protection (Revised), 1952, is concerned with ensuring that the existence of maternity benefits should not result in discrimination against women in employment. Accordingly the Convention provides, in Article 4.8, that the individual employer shall not be individually liable for the cost of such benefits due to women employed by him. However the International Labour Office has advised that it is consistent with the requirements of the Convention for Governments to asume responsibility for the cost of these benefits in relation to their own employees. Therefore payments by the Australian Government will not be in contravention of ILO Convention 103. 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member doubtless knows that ILO recommendations, as their name implies, really provide a set of broadly based guidelines which nations are at liberty to take into account. The Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill currently before Parliament is indicative of the Governments policy in respect of its own employees vis a vis ILO recommendation 95. 
and (3) I am informed that statistics' are not collected centrally, and it is not proposed to change this because of the unreliability of the information which would be available. For example, such figures would only cover those women who would be willing to reveal that they, are pregnant. 
The honourable member will be aware that all employees in the Commonwealth service, including pregnant women, are entitled to rest periods. Arrangements for longer or more frequent breaks would normally be made where management considered this desirable. 
The Acting Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) With the exception of some information relating to profit sharing, there are no published or readily available statistics relating to the information requested by the honourable member. The subject is highly complex particularly as regards definition and the collection of relevant statistics would require the expenditure of staff resources already involved in other high priority work. 
As regards profit sharing, however, a survey of wage incentive schemes carried out by my Department among a broad cross-section of Australian firms, and published in 1969, showed that 3 per cent of the 1,327 firms covered had profit sharing schemes and, of the 154,955 employees employed by firms found to operate some form of wage incentive scheme, 3 per cent were covered by a profit sharing scheme. 
Worker Participation in Industry  (Question No. 674) 
 The Acting Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are constitutional limitations on the Australian Parliament's power to legislate in relation to matters referred to in the honourable member's question. However, the Government has taken steps to ensure adequate trade union representation on Government created bodies. As regards the Government's objective of ensuring that workers receive an equitable share of this country's growing wealth the Government, in the recently concluded National Wage Case before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, made submissions in support of increases in award wage rates and the minimum wage. As the honourable member will be aware a Bill is currently before Parliament to make far-reaching amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act including the removal of the Penal Provisions which aggravate relationships between employers and employees. Adoption of the amendments will provide  a  healthier industrial relations climate within which parties may operate. 
-How long have I to reply,  Mr Speaker?  I appreciate the question from the honourable member for Barton. He is one of the members who have been very keenly interested in the second Sydney airport and the Towra Point area. He has made reference to a number of local government authorities. I think he omitted to mention some of his own colleagues who have made numerous representations to me and, I know, to my predecessors about Towra Point. I refer to the honourable member for Hughes, the honourable member for Cook and the honourable member for St George. All of these people are keenly interested in this matter. I could go further and draw attention to the opposition of the honourable member for Chifley and the honourable member for Mitchell to the siting of the airport at Richmond. The whole question of the second Sydney airport is one of great controversy. I am pleased to inform the honourable member for Barton that the first stage of the report has been completed. I have received a copy of it and a submission has been made to Cabinet. If we had had time to discuss it in the Economics Committee today it would have been dealt with today. I am hopeful that it will be dealt with at an early date. It contains some specific recommendations concerning a second Sydney airport. 
-The honourable member would be aware that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has a policy that at all times it will endeavour to ensure that communications by sea between Tasmania and the mainland are maintained. The Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers was due to appear before  Mr Justice  Sweeney this afternoon at 3 o'clock. I do not know the outcome of those discussions or whether they have been fruitful but, in the event of the strike continuing, I assure the honourable member that I will draw the attention of  Mr Souter  and  Mr Hawke  to the 1971 statement which they made concerning Tasmania. 
I heard a whisper that the Opposition intended to do some bragging this afternoon when I accepted the amendment. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  inquired at my office yesterday as to what the Government would do about this matter. I very openly and frankly told him that we would accept the amendment. I wish to clarify a few points. What a difference there is between the crowing of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  this afternoon and the laudatory remarks which he made after I had accepted all the other amendments when the Bill was dealt with by this Committee before it went to the Senate. I wish to make it clear that the reason I accepted those amendments on that occasion was that I preferred to have the Bill dealt with by this Committee rather than by another place. In this Committee I had some control over what was going on. Let us not make any bones about why 1 dealt with them here. The only reason I accepted the amendments was that the Government does not have the numbers in the other place. Let us be frank about that too. I give the honourable member for Gippsland and the honourable member for Farrer credit for being prepared to sit down and negotiate in relation to the amendments. The Government did not agree to everything they put forward but at least in this case we were able to work out a compromise in this House rather than it going before the other place. 
The honourable member for Gippsland said that we accepted the amendment previously put in this House by the Opposition. We have not accepted that amendment because the Senate did not move as an amendment the amendment which was moved here by the Opposition. It moved a different amendment containing some of the proposals which the Opposition had written into its amendment. The Senate wrote into the amendment some additional points which the Government has accepted. So far as I am concerned we can live with the amendment which we are accepting from the Senate, but we do not agree with it 100 per cent. When the sta tement was made dealing with the 2-airline agreement I said that I would not accept this amendment. That was the Government's attitude and if we had the numbers in the Senate we would not accept it now. Let us not have any illusions about it. It is only because the Opposition has the numbers in the Senate that we are accepting it - 
-We are doing all right out of the amendment and honourable members opposite will squeal their heads off when they find what we have done with it. I am going to do some bragging as well. On the question of the 2 airlines being on an equal footing, I point out that members of the Opposition have been under the domination of the Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for the 23 years they were in government. Ansett Transport Industries told the previous Government what it was to do and it toed the line. Let us make that point clear. The Liberal-Country Party Government toed the line when Ansett called the tune. Members opposite have done so on this occasion. The amendments which were moved by the Opposition were amendments it was told to move by ATI. When it comes to a comparison, what I have stated is a fact and the honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles)  knows it because he is one of those who toed the line with the rest of the members of the Liberal and Country Parties. 
So far as ATI is concerned let us be clear. Trans-Australia Airlines has a much better superannuation fund than does ATI. It costs TAA more than Sim a year more than it costs ATI. What the Opposition hoped to do was to place TAA at a disadvantage of about $1.5m a year compared to ATI. Do not let honourable members opposite forget that when they were in government they directed Qantas Airways Ltd to adopt a similiar method of investment for its superannuation fund as TAA was doing. TAA followed the previous Government's policy for 23 years and it was only in the dying hours of the last Parliament that the previous Government once again toed the line- that is the Ansett lineto extend the terms of the 2-airline agreement for another 5 years when there was no justification for it.  Sir Frederick  Scherger and other members of the Board at no time agreed to it. It was only under duress and pressure that the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe, leaned on them because ATI was leaning on him. Honourable members opposite should get the facts clear. 
With respect to the interest being charged on these funds, the former government allowed TAA to get away with a 5.5 per cent interest charge on the funds it was using. One of the things I did was to say 'that is not fair and reasonable; it should be at a rate higher than that', and I required the Company to charge itself what was then the long term bond rate, which I considered was fair and reasonable. That is the situation. I think it was the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who used the expression that Trans-Australia Airlines was prepared to take the cheese but not to spring the trap. Let me point out to the honourable member that the person who took that action was the Minister for Transport- me. I was the one who directed the management of TAA and the Board not to transfer the funds. I emphasise that very early in the piece I directed them not to transfer the funds. As far as I was concerned, if I could have left the funds under the previous system they would have been left under that system without any change being made. It is only because the Australian Labor Party does not have the numbers in the Senate that members of the Opposition were forced by Ansett to write in the amendment which we have been pushed into accepting. So, it was not TAA that did this. 
Incidentally,  Sir Frederick  Scherger at no time has agreed to the proposition relating to superannuation funds which honourable members opposite have tried to force on him and other members of the Board. So, he has not reneged on any agreement which he entered into. What are honourable members opposite going to do about the service in Western Australia? At the moment, Ansett Transport Industries is lobbying members of the Opposition in the Western Australian Parliament not to permit TAA to operate an intra-State service in that State. What are honourable members opposite going to do there? Are they going to support TAA's entry to intrastate operations in Westeran Australia? After all, one of the conditions of the extension of the 2- airline agreement for another 5 years was the transfer of superannuation funds out of TAA's hands. If the Western Australian Parliament does not agree to TAA operating intra-State in Western Australia, will members of the Opposition parties in another place amend the Bill, withdraw the amendment and allow TAA to operate on the superannuation funds as was previously the practice for 23 years under Liberal government? I do not think that they will, because they must toe the line as Ansett Transport Industries tells them to. We accept.the amendment because of the reasons I have outlined. We can live with it and we will live with it for as long as we do not have the numbers in the other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Railways Provision Stores operated at a profit during the five years ended 30 June 1968 to 1972. However, it is usual practice that the accounting results of this activity are treated as confidential. 
The purpose of the Stores is to assist employees of Commonwealth Railways and it is not believed that their interests or those of the Railways would be served by disclosing the results of their operations. 
Fruit Fly (Question No. SOS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. At the February meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council I advised the State Transport Ministers that the Australian Government had approved in principle a scheme to provide two thirds of the cost of improving urban public transport. 
In March I wrote to the State Transport Ministers inviting them to forward the State's proposals to the Australian Government. These proposals have now been received and are being considered by the Government. 
and (4) Details of the proposal are contained in my Press Statements dated 16 and 19 February. I have advised the State Transport Ministers that one condition of the assistance would be that the Australian Government should have a voice in the management of the States ' public transport authorities as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)(a)(b) The airlines have not, in the past, scheduled direct flights between Canberra-Adelaide-and Perth. 
and (4) I am informed that both. TAA and Ansett Airlines have, on several occasions, considered the possibility of providing direct flights between these centres. The airlines have concluded, however, that the potential passenger traffic on the route would not justify the operation of a service with the aircraft types currently in their fleets. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department has experimented with TV sets in Sydney terminal but they were not successful. More studies will be undertaken and the Department will again examine the possibility of installing TV sets in terminals if coming passenger surveys indicate they are wanted by the majority of air passengers. 
Oil from Coal and Shale  (Question No. 644) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1. (a) Penong-Bookabie (21 miles)- earth works, sub-base, and base course, (b) Bookabie-Yalata (SO miles)- earth works, sub-base and base course, (c) Yalata-Nullabor (65 miles)earth works and sub-base. 
Contracts to be let in near future for earth works and subbase for Nullabor to Koonalda (60 miles). 
It is expected that tenders will be called for the construction of last S I miles section between Koonalda and Western Australian border in July 1973. Sealing contracts will be called as construction of each section nears completion. 
Construction and sealing of Highway has been completed to Penong (45 miles west from Ceduna). Construction is proceeding west of this point and individual contracts are between 10 per cent and 80 per cent complete. 
It is expected that the Eyre Highway will be constructed and sealed over the entire length by April 1975. 
There have been discussions between  Mr Virgo  and myself about the new line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs and complete agreement has been reached on it. 
He is the Minister of Transport in the South Australian Government. Agreement has been reached between  Mr Virgo  and myself and  Mr Virgo  gave me an assurance that he would pass on to  Mr Dunstan  our agreement and recommend that he write to the Prime Minister accepting the terms that were agreed to. I understand the Premier of South Australia has written to the Prime Minister. On this point, I thank the honourable member for Grey for the part that he played in straightening out the differences of opinion that existed between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia on this problem. There was only a minor problem concerning Leigh Creek coal and when it was straightened out there was no further problem. I hope that there will be early agreement so that the construction of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line can commence. No finality has yet been reached about the other line, from Crystal Brook to Adelaide, but there have been discussions on it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation of 1944 provided for the establishment of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) which was founded in 1947 and is a specialised agency of the United Nations. Article 56 of the Chicago Convention as originally drafted provides that the Air Navigation Commission, which is the principal and a permanent technical body of ICAO, shall be composed of 12 members appointed by the Council, the governing body of ICAO. The Air Navigation Commission is the principal ICAO body concerned with the planning, co-ordination and examination of all of ICAO's work in the air navigation field, including the establishment of international standards and recommended practices. The uniform application of these standards by governments is necessary and desirable for the operation of safe and efficient air services by international airlines including, of course, Qantas. At its Assembly Session held in Vienna in mid 1971, ICAO adopted a Protocol of Amendment to the Chicago Convention to increase the membership of the Air Navigation Commission from 12 to IS members. The amendment requires ratification by 80 states out of the total membership of 128 before it comes into force. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to ratify this Protocol. The Air Navigation Act 1920-1971 sets out in Schedules the Chicago Convention which was ratified by Australia in 1947 and a number of Protocols amending the Convention in minor respects. That Act was amended in 1961, 1963 and 1971 to approve the ratification of other minor amendments to the Chicago Convention, these amendments being set out in further Schedules to the principal Act. The present Bill continues this practice by inserting the new Protocol as the Eighth Schedule to the principal Act. The increase in membership is supported for 2 main reasons. First, it was the unanimous wish of the member states for an increase of 3 members. Secondly, an increase of three could not be considered unreasonable in the light of the fact that the total membership has grown to 128, that is, more than double the number of states which participated in the Chicago conference which gave rise to the Convention. The Australian Government welcomes the participation of an increased number of states in the work of the Air Navigation Commission which is becoming more complex with the technological advances in air navigation in recent years. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In May 1970, a survey was conducted throughout Australia by the Bureau of Census and Statistics to obtain information about the principal means of journey to work and journey to school. The following estimated percentages relate to all persons who travelled to work in May 1970 in State capital cities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following table: 
Tenders for the navigational aid ship were called earlier in the year and closed late in June. At the present time the model of the navigational aid ship is being subjected to tank testing in Germany. At the moment cavitation testing is being carried out. This in turn will have an influence on the final lines of the ship and also on the propellers. When these tests are concluded we will be in a position to allocate the order to the successful tenderer. I am not in a position to indicate to the honourable member at this stage who is the lowest tenderer, for one very simple reason, that when the tank tests are completed some major change in the design may be required and this could result in the project having to be submitted to retender. We do not expect that to happen because at the moment. the tank testing is going quite successfully and this would indicate that the design is quite satisfactory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of derailments for the years 1970 to date have been as follows: 
The causes of these derailments are varied and include track defects, vehicle defects and combinations of circumstances and faults both mechanical and human. 
Steps aimed at avoiding a recurrence are taken by all systems. These may include relaying and general upgrading of track, modification of vehicles and improvement in track and vehicle maintenance. 
Track defects were the cause of some derailments on all systems reporting. Immediate action is generally confined to necessary repair work although high incidence of a particular cause of derailment will result in special preventive action, e.g. replacement of W guards on Victorian 4-wheeled vehicles several years ago and relaying of certain branch lines in Victoria where heavy traffic on light rail was causing maintenance problems. 
Speed restrictions are imposed during the time the track is being restored to normal after a derailment. Speed limits are imposed on all track and all vehicles and are set in relation to the importance of the service, the type of construction, the design of the vehicle, and maintenance considerations. 
Derailments on Commonwealth Railways for the year 1970 to date have been as follows: 
Western Australian Railways advise that there are some sections of sub-standard track in Western Australia. 
Commonwealth Railways advise that there would be some sections of track below 'standard' condition at a particular time pending resleepering and/ or ballasting. 
However with regard to inadequate track standards it must be remembered that what was adequate 20 years ago may not be adequate now and a track inadequate for the amount of traffic now carried on it may still be perfectly safe with the axle loads and train speeds currently prescribed by the operating authority. 
All systems match the allowable speed with axle loads and standard of construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
International standards for noise certification of turbojet aircraft (take-off, side line and approach noise levels) are set down in Annex 16 to the convention on international civil aviation known as the Chicago Convention. These standards apply to turbojet aircraft whose maximum all up weight is in excess of 12,566 lb. These standards also apply to turbojet aircraft that were first granted a certificate of airworthiness by the country of manufacture: 
After 1 March 1972 and are powered by jet engines whose bypass ratio is 2 or more; 
after 1 January 1969 and are powered by jet engines whose bypass ratio is less than 2; 
prior to 1 January 1969 - newly manufactured aircraft in this category must meet the international standards after 1 January 1976. 
Boeing 747B - the noise levels recorded for these aircraft are lower than the maximum levels allowable under the standards contained in Annex 16. 
Boeing 727/200 series aircraft - the noise levels recorded for these aircraft are lower than the maximum levels allowable under the standards contained in Annex 16. 
Fokker F28 aircraft - the noise levels recorded for these aircraft are lower than the maximum levels allowable under the standards contained in Annex 16. 
HS 125 series 3 aircraft - the noise levels recorded for these aircraft are lower than the maximum levels allowable under the standards contained in Annex 16. 
Boeing 707/320 series aircraft - the recorded noise levels for these aircraft are higher than those allowable for the particular all up weight of the aircraft, but as these aircraft fall into category 1 (c) above they are not required to meet the standards until 1 January 1976, if economically feasible to do so. 
Boeing 727/100 series aircraft - the recorded noise levels for these aircraft are higher than those allowable for the particular all up weight of the aircraft, but as these aircraft fall into category 1 (c) above they are not required to meet the standards until 1 January 1976, if economically feasible. 
Douglas DC9/30 series aircraft - the recorded noise levels for these aircraft are higher than those allowable for the particular all up weight of the aircraft, but as these aircraft fall into category 1 (c) above they are not required to meet the standards until i January 1976, if economically feasible to do so. 
BACIII aircraft - the recorded noise levels for these aircraft are higher than those allowable for the particular all up weight of the aircraft, but as these aircraft fall into category 1 (c) above they are not required to meet the standards until 1 January 1967, if economically feasible to do so. 
HS748 and F27 aircraft - there are no international noise level standards for 'turboprop aircraft' as yet. The noise levels of all turboprop aircraft operating in Australia are considerably lower than those for turbojet aircraft. 
Department of Overseas Trade: Accommodation (Question No. 594)  Mr  Garland  asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the reply by the Minister for Services and Property to my question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May, 1973, page 2250), in which he suggested that details relating to occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commowealth should be obtained from the Ministers concerned. 
Will he provide details, as set out in that question, of all places occupied by his Department and by authorities under his control in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: fa) and (b) This question has been discussed with Trans-Australia Airlines. The airline has pointed out that amenities of this kind are normally associated with international operations where stage lengths of several hours are common and it is desirable to have time-consuming diversions of various kinds for the comfort of passengers. 
Australian domestic air services are basically of a short haul nature and a large part of the time is occupied in providing meals, refreshments, making public announcements and drawing attention to features of the terrain. Some music is played during the take-off and landing stages through the public address system, but the introduction of piped music to each seat would be costly and is not considered to be justified in the present circumstances. 
Similar considerations apply more particularly to the provision of full length films, the opportunities for viewing such films on domestic Sights being too limited to warrant the installation of the costly equipment which would be necessary for the purpose. ' 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The directories referred to are quite useful and will be progressively introduced into terminals controlled by the Department of Civil Aviation where the information they usually contain is not provided by other means. Airlines operate their own terminals at certain locations and the suggestion will also be brought to their notice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
Perth Airport SUI million. Jandakot $2 million. Mascot $109 million, Tulamarine $83 million, Brisbane SIS million, Adelaide $10 million. These are book values and the current values are approximately two to three times those amounts. 
The next developmental project at Perth is to create a separate international terminal complex and to modify the present terminal primarily for the domestic operators. This could cost about $20 million. 
I have taken a lead from the fascist right in this particular case inasmuch as the conditions that have been laid down in relation to the supervision of work, the calling of tenders and the allocation of sites where new work shall be done are all completely in line with conditions which members of the fascist right who sit opposite me wrote into the rail standardisation agreements between the States and, in particular between the States of New South Wales and Victoria when the Commonwealth provided money for rail standardisation to be carried out on the Sydney-Melbourne run. So this move is not designed to appease the socialist left. Members of that group have not even spoken to me about this matter. I took my lead from the fascist right. 
So far as Commonwealth representation on the Board of Commissioners is concerned, when I announced this proposal on 16 February to the meeting in Hobart of the Australian Transport Advisory Council not one Minister objected to the Commonwealth having representation on the Board of Commissioners and thus knowing what was going on in relation to urban transport systems which the Commonwealth proposed to finance to the tune of something like $500m over the next 5 years. None of them objected to it. None of the other 5 
States have raised any objection to it whatsoever and in fact they have all indicated' their desire to co-operate with the Commonwealth. So there is nothing dictatorial about it. The program which has been approved by the Government is completely in line with the programs which the various State governments submitted. We have not added anything to them. We deleted a number of works that had already been commenced by the States themselves, but we have added nothing to the programs. I repeat for the information of honourable members, as I said to one of the Melbourne newspapers yesterday morning, if Victoria does not want the $9. 66m it should say so and I will give it to the rest of the States. 
Tenders were called in April and closed in June for 200,000 pre-stressed concrete sleepers and 220,000 timber sleepers of 9 x 6 and 10 x 5. They have been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for evaluation and report to me. Before the Bureau makes its decision it will be required to examine a submission by the timber industry and one by the concrete industry as to the relative merits of the 2 types of sleepers. This arrangement is the result of a discussion which I had with the Premier of Western Australia, his Minister for Forests and another one of his Ministers who was involved in transport. They felt that we did not have all the information that we should have in favour of timber sleepers. So I agreed that the timber industry could make a submission to me which I would examine and that I would ask the concrete sleeper industry to make a submission in favour of concrete sleepers. These submissions have been received. The interchange has taken place and a decision will be subject to a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics. As soon as I receive that report and study it a decision will he made. 
It is perfectly true that there is a Commonwealth-State committee made up of representatives of various Commonwealth departments and New South Wales Government departments. The committee has been charged with the responsibility of investigating the site for a second airport for Sydney or to ensure that Sydney will have sufficient airport facilities to cater for civil aviation needs in the next 30 years or more. This committee has met. It submitted an interim report to me recently which I presented to Cabinet on Monday. Cabinet decided not to accept the report, as is its prerogative. 
Yes, the report will be tabled in this place and if the honourable member- 
Yes, that is right. This is a bit of a change compared with what the previous Government did. If honourable members want the details, I am prepared to have my Press release, together with that of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, incorporated in Hansard. I seek leave to have the documents incorporated so that I will not have to go over the whole matter again. 
I will take the matter a little further because other questions and other points have been raised on this subject. I draw attention to certain decisions which have been made. One was by a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins who, without any technical advice whatsoever and without the advantage of any committee's report, on the eve of his departure for overseas publicly announced that Towra Point would not be included in the sites to be considered for a second Sydney airport. The Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, once again without any technical advice whatsoever, made 3 statements over a period. One was that Towra Point would not be accepted by the State Government as a site for a second Sydney airport. On the eve of the by-election for Hawkesbury, about the Thursday before the election, out came the headlines over reports that  Sir Robert  had said that Richmond would not be accepted by the State Government as a site for a second Sydney airport. Once again, just recently, without any technical advice,  Sir Robert  decided that Duffy's Forest, which I believe is in his electorate or pretty close to it, was not acceptable to the State Government as a site for a second airport for Sydney. 
At least we have the information contained in the report and we have made a judgment as to where the second Sydney airport should be located. As I have already indicated, the report will be tabled and will be available for the information of honourable members - which is more than can be said for the custom and practice of the former Government in which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was a Minister. The former Government was not prepared to table, and make available to the public, the reasons why it did things. We are prepared to do so. 
 When the newly appointed member of the board of Qantas Airways Ltd,  Mr Egerton,  took up his responsibilities recently he expressed concern about the inadequate international terminal facilities in Brisbane. This matter has been under consideration for some time. One of the first things he did was to start needling the Department of Civil Aviation about it. He and the honourable member for Lilley put sufficient pressure on us to get things moving. 
That is right. The previous Government was not interested in the matter. It did nothing about it. At least we investigated the matter. Probably there was no action previously because the former Government did not have a Queensland representative on the Qantas board. Now that State has an active representative. As a result of those inquiries we found that the present international terminal was structurally unsound and in the event of very high winds, to which Queensland is subjected from time to time, the building could collapse. As a result of this investigation we were going to spend something like another $250,000 to $500,000 on strengthening the building. However, this was considered impractical. Trans-Australia Airlines was going to construct a building which would have blended in with the proposals for a new terminal at Brisbane. TransAustralia Airlines was going to build a new office, workshop and stores building on what will be the maintenance area. At the present time Trans-Australia Airlines is short of space for cabin servicing, maintenance of its aircraft and freight facilities, lt has been decided to go ahead and erect this building so that it can be used jointly by Trans-Australia Airlines, to provide those facilities for freighting, maintenance and cabin servicing, and as an international terminal. Because of the unsound nature of the existing international terminal this matter will be proceeded with immediately. 
What the honourable member for Barton has said is perfectly true to the effect, that in 1969 when the right honourable member for Higgins was the Prime Minister, without any advice whatsoever from his. Department or from his Minister for Civil Aviation, he issued a direction on the eve of his departure on an overseas trip that Towra Point was not to be considered- 
As I was saying, at the time when the right honourable member for Higgins who was then the Prime Minister gave the ruling that Towra Point was to be excluded from consideration, the 3 electoral seats of Cook, Barton and St George were all held by Liberal Party members. In an endeavour to save them he made that decision. I think that the whole question of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and the need for a second airport has to be looked at in its true perspective. Also, we have to consider the dilatory approach that was taken by the former Government. The decision made by the right honourable member for Higgins in regard to this matter was made in 1969 and in April 1969 the then Government appointed an interdepartmental committee to report on the need for a second airport for Sydney. This committee proceeded with its inquiry and reported to the then Government in September 1970 that there was a need for a second airport for Sydney. Also, it recommended certain sites. I want to quote very briefly from a speech made by the then Minister - - 
I am being brief. 
I am terminating the reply to the question. I draw the attention of honourable members again to the fact that the inter-departmental committee reported to the then government in September 1970. lt sat on that report for exactly 12 months until 15 September 1971 when the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,- 

 - Senator Cotton made a statement in the Senate on this subject. On the 13th page of his speech he said: However, the- 

 - Mr Speaker, I am trying to co-operate with you. 
I am trying to cooperate with you,  Sir. I  am trying to quote these 4 lines as quickly as I can. The quotation is: 
However, the Commonwealth's view is that for a variety of reasons Duffy's Forest and Wattamolla are neither desirable nor satisfactory sites and it hopes a quick determination between Richmond and Somersby can be made. 
That was on 15 September 1971. When that Government went out of office in December 1972, no decision had been made. 
As best I could hear the question, I take it that the honourable member wants some sort of standard laid down to determine the fuel consumption of particular motor vehicles imported to Australia? 
I am quite happy to look at the honourable member's question and to give him a considered reply when I have had a good chance to study it. 
It is perfectly true that the Opposition, when it was in government, and the present New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government have on every occasion on which they have dealt with a site for a second Sydney airport taken into consideration the political party of the member representing the electorate where the site was located. For example, they excluded Towra Point for a very simple reason and that was, as I said in answer to an earlier question, that, without any technical advice whatsoever and in an endeavour to save the 3 Liberal Federal members in Cook, Barton and St. George, they selected Somersby as a possible site because  Mr Barry  Cohen, the Labor member, was the representative for that area. They excluded Duffy's Forest because it was in a Liberal electorate. We should not forget that the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  originally supported Duffy's Forest and then went cold on it, for reasons best known to himself. The whole question of a site for a second Sydney airport has been a political issue all the way through. The Opposition, when it was in government, sat on the matter for years and failed to make a decision. We, as a government, have a responsibility in this field, and we are endeavouring to make a considered decision to ensure that Sydney has a second airport which will meet its requirements. 
As the honourable member for Gippsland is well aware, the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement does not expire until 30 June of next year. The Bureau of Roads is at present in the process of preparing a report which it is anticipated will be completed about October this year. When that report is received and considered by the Cabinet a decision will be made and announced. 
I heard the last part of the question. 
I answered the honourable member's question. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of a working group appointed to study costs and revenues of the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is impossible to be precise in quoting hourly operating costs for the aircraft types mentioned, as these vary between operators and according to such factors as the stage length of the route flown. However, representative hourly direct operating costs (i.e. excluding all overhead costs) would be: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (h) Non-Commonwealth owned buildings occupied by Department of Civil Aviation, Trans Australia Airlines and Qantas. Number of buildings occupied: 
We are reviewing the existing Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement which will expire on 30 June next. As I replied to an honourable member earlier this week, I expect to have a reply from the Bureau of Roads by October of this year. We are. reviewing completely the present procedure and methods for the allocation of money for road construction. We are not satisfied with the manner in which the States are constructing freeways without having regard to the effects of those freeways on the environment and on the people. Therefore, in future,when money allocated by the Australian Government is used for road construction the effects on the environment will be considered and the social effects of the freeways or main roads will be considered. The whole system is completely under review. 
Although the honourable member did not refer to this aspect in his question, I know that he is keenly interested in trunk route 23, I think it is, which will be constructed through the Black Butt Reserve which is located in his electorate. At present the New South Wales Government is trying to force the Newcastle City Council to build the highway through the Black Butt Reserve. If the construction of that road is not commenced before 30 June next, before we allocate any money to it we will take into consideration the effects of the highway on the environment - on the Black Butt Reserve. If the effects are found to be detrimental, and I believe they will be, no money will be allocated for the construction of that road through the Black Butt Reserve. 
Members of the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australia have been on strike now for a little over a week. As a result of the dispute certain parts of the radar equipment at Mascot are now unserviceable, and this has resulted in delays with aircraft coming in to land, which in turn has had an effect on the outward movement of aircraft. The honourable member for Barton has raised a complaint about air traffic controllers using both runways. This situation has been brought about as a result of a stoppage, and some of the previous noise abatement procedures which have been used to attempt to reduce the noise nuisance over the built-up residential areas have had to be abandoned. But as soon as the dispute is finalised there will be a return to the noise abatement procedures that have been the custom for some considerable time. 
I appreciate the interest of the honourable member for Scullin in the problems associated with the toxicity of fumes resulting from aircraft accidents. It has been alleged in a number of countries that after an accident takes place and there is a fire, the fumes which are emitted from the internal furnishings of the aircraft rather than the accident itself have brought about the deaths of the passengers in the aircraft. As a result of the honourable member's questioning of me in the last sessional period I arranged with the Department of Civil Aviation to convene a meeting of the airlines to discuss this matter. As a result of this discussion a working party has been set up comprising 4 scientists from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation who are now authorised and have been asked to carry out detailed research into the effects of fire in furnishings in aircraft. They have been asked to determine the best system - whether to reduce the prospects of fire or to prevent the emission of toxic gases. They have been asked to determine whether the treatment of the furniture in aircraft can be improved whereby, firstly, the prospects of fire can be reduced and, secondly, the emission of toxic gases can be reduced. That is what is happening at present. I am looking forward to the report in the same manner as is the honourable member. Just as the former Minister for Civil Aviation was able to raise the whole question of aircraft noise at an International Civil Aviation Organisation meeting, if the scientists' report justifies it, this subject will be raised at an early date with ICAO. 
I have asked that the report be printed and made available to honourable members. 
I do not do the printing. It has been put in hand. It is amusing to stand here and watch the Leader of the Opposition smile at that remark. At least this Parliament and the people of Australia do now get reports. Only this week I tabled the working group's report which lay in the archives of this Parliament for well over 12 months, and which the Liberal-Country Party Government would never have tabled in this place. We have tabled hundreds of reports which the previous Government treated as secret and was not prepared to make available for public scrutiny. The Opposition should not talk to me about delays of a week or a month when referring to the tabling of reports. The report will be tabled as soon as it is printed. All relevant information, including about 18 booklets on the environmental impact of the various sites, will be placed not in this place because of the cost of printing those booklets but in the Library. The publications will be available to those honourable members who are interested. 
We do not intend to suppress anything. The publications will be available for perusal. The record discloses that we are an open government and that the Opposition, when in office, was a government of secrecy and was not prepared to make information available to the public. I have had no report from the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation on this matter. The Leader of the Opposition, in a speech one day, last week, stated a lot of bunkum when he said that the Director-General was laying siege to his office because of another inquiry that was being conducted. That was typical of the bunkum which is coming from the opposite side of the House. 
I have received no report from the DirectorGeneral on the matter - from memory. I have no particular report concerning the effects of Richmond on other sites. General aviation airports were referred to in unprinted copies of the report. I do not recall Galston being mentioned as far as Richmond was concerned. The honourable member for Berowra said that Galston was not one of the sites considered. 
That is not true. There is an impact statement on Galston. That will be included in the papers that will be tabled in due course. Galston was one of the sites which was considered. 
Airports are something which every country and every State wants but nobody wants them intheir backyards or their front yards. We all want to use airports but we want to use them somewhere away from where we live. It is for that reason that the Government has continued the committee to inquire into the location of a second Sydney airport.  Mr Hills,  the Leader of the Labor Party in New South Wales, has for many years advocated the location of an international terminal at Dubbo . Frankly, I do not agree with his proposition. The facts are that surveys that have been conducted by the committees have shown that about 70 per cent of the people who travel to Sydney leave the airport; that is, their business is in Sydney. About 83 per cent of the passengers on domestic flights leave the airport for their business in Sydney. So if an airport were located west of the Divide or somewhere out of the Sydney district about 3 DC9's would be required to bring the passengers on an international flight of a Jumbo Boeing 747, for example, to Sydney. 
I will deal with that question too if the right honourable member likes and give him an answer to it. The facts are that recent surveys that were conducted in relation to the siting of a second Sydney airport disclosed that to locate the airport at Somersby, for example - this was the best cost-benefit study - would cost about $2,600m more than if Mascot airport were extended. The survey on the Orange-Bathurst area that was carried out at my request found that it would cost approximately $6,000m if a high speed rail system were introduced. If the train travelled at about 85 miles per hour and a special tunnel 60 miles long were constructed, it would take1 hours to cover the distance. 
Yes. The cost for the Dubbo site, which is further away from Sydney than Orange-Bathurst, would be even more than that. 
If the honourable member would like me to do so I will. That is the position as far as a high speed train is concerned. Taken all round, if the second Sydney airport is to be located outside the metropolitan area we can expect a major increase in costs plus the cost of travelling to or from the site selected west of the mountains or on the coast. I would be quite happy to have the site at Newcastle if honourable members opposite do not want it. A distant site would mean a considerable amount of time would be taken in travelling to and from the airport. So these are the factors that have to be taken into consideration. 
I am certain that the honourable member for Robertson and all other honourable' members join with me in expressing our regret at the incident and our condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives in this tragic accident. Unfortunately, it is accidents of this type which bring to the fore the need to introduce new regulations and to tighten up existing regulations where necessary. I would be quite happy to make available any officers of my Department to take part in research into the reasons for this accident. Like the honourable member for Robertson who is  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, I have been concerned for some time at the laxity of interstate bus operations. Too many accidents have occurred in this field of operation. Because of this situation, at the last meeting of the ATAC, I was successful in having the export group prepare a report on the desirability of fitting seat belts to all buses operating over long distances, together with  the adoption of provisions for tighter inspections of the braking systems of these buses. I can say further that, at the previous meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in February of this year, a uniform code of inspection for buses operating over long distances was introduced by the expert group and adopted by that Council. I have with me a document setting out uniform 

<graphic href="085131197309270_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

inspection standards for omnibuses which may be of interest to honourable members So that they might study it, I seek leave of the House to incorporate the document in Hansard. 
For the information of honourable members I present the financial statements on the Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled A Review of Public Transport Investment Proposals for the Australian Capital Cities 1973-74'. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31 March 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
You were an Assistant Minister for Civil Aviation; what did you do for the Brisbane airport? The answer is naught. The honourable member for Boothby did absolutely nothing in the area of civil aviation when he was Assistant Minister. That is why he was kicked out. I think this Government has a record of achievement. At least we have the scheme moving and are providing money and setting out to provide an alternative temporary international terminal which, we hope, will not blow down. So, it was not honourable members opposite who did anything for the Brisbane airport, although the honourable member for Griffith has been in this place for about 6 years. In that 6 years he achieved nothing in relation to Brisbane. The honourable member for Lilley has been elected for 10 months and this Government has been in office for 10 months, and in that time have got the proposal moving. We have referred it to the Bureau of Transport Economics for a cost benefit analysis to tell us the rate at which we should be proceeding with it. Furthermore, just as a little point on the side, not dealing with Brisbane but dealing with Townsville, we decided that we would examine the practicability of establishing an international terminal at Townsville. We went ahead and selected a site. We got on with the preliminary work. We asked the Premier of Queensland, the backwoodsmen's State, whether the Queensland Government would freeze land prices and the answer we received was No. So we did not bother any further with the proposal. 
I state this in reply to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  who asked what was happening at Caboolture. We were knocked back on the Townsville proposal. The Queensland Government was not prepared to freeze land prices there. Most of it is swamp land. We did not expect any better result in regard to Caboolture or the Eagle Farm site. I have stated the position in relation to Brisbane Airport, Caboolture Airport and just for good measure, Townsville Airport which nobody elected to mention but I raised it anyway. It, together with the Eagle Farm site, has been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for cost benefit analysis and report to the Government. 
Criticism has been made of the Government's decision to increase air navigation charges. The fact that we propose to increase fuel tax by 5c a gallon this year when the necessary legislation goes through both Houses of Parliament has been criticised. I have an application from the airlines for an average increase in fares of Hi per cent. Of that Hi per cent, 8 per cent - more than twothirds - is necessary because of increases in wages and improvements in conditions which the airlines have had to grant in the last 9 to 10 months. The increase in air navigation charges accounts for about one-third or 3i per cent of the Hi per cent increase applied for. The present legislation provides for full recovery with no greater increase than 10 per cent in any one year, but the facts of the matter are that we were going backwards. Some 5 years ago the receipts from air navigation charges were about $3m less than the cost of operating civil aviation, not including the administrative costs of the Department of Civil Aviation. Last year the deficit was S69m and the indications are that the deficit will continue to escalate at about that rate. If members of the Opposition want to continue along the line whereby the general taxpayer will be subsidising - let us state the matter in plain terms - air travel to the tune of $69m a year, they can do so. That might be their policy, but it is not our policy. We do not propose to continue along that line. 
At this stage I am pleased to say that agreement has been reached with the airlines on the amount of increase in air navigation charges. They are not happy about it, and I do not blame them for not being happy about it, but at least they recognise the facts of life. What the Government is doing is fairly reasonable. Over the next 5 years the Government will seek an 80 per cent recovery. 
For the information of the honourable member, for about 12 years I rose in my place on the Opposition side of the chamber and always supported the previous Government's increases in air navigation charges. Both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself were always the first 2 speakers on the Opposition side supporting an increase in air navigation charges. We consistently and continually drew attention to the anomalous position whereby the LiberalCountry Party Government was prepared to subsidise the luxury form of transport, namely air travel, and was not prepared to do anything about the more down-to-earth form of travel, namely, rail transport which was fully dependent on and maintained by the States. We are consistent and we have been consistent all the way through. When the honourable member talks about being consistent he had better be more aware of his facts and figures. 
We rejected, as did some Liberal Party members, the previous Government's proposal for a head tax. We did not agree with the imposition of a head tax, and we rejected it. We have not yet introduced a head tax. When we do the honourable member can make a similar speech to that made by some of our people in the other place, but until then he should keep his tongue firmly between his teeth. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  took me to task over the now concluded dispute involving the Professional Radio Employees Institute, which was settled this afternoon. He accused me of not being interested in it, of doing nothing and of not coming out and making public statements on it. He might be a pretty good legal man. I do not claim to be a good industrial man, but I learned something many years ago in my experience in trade union affairs. One of the best ways to keep a strike going and the best way to create situations in which things have to be patched up after people have said things that they would love to cut their tongues out for at some later stage, is to come out and make public statements on these things. This is where one gets oneself into trouble. Any experienced trade unionist knows that the less one says about a dispute, the easier it is to fix it up. It may be of interest to honourable members to know that there has hardly been a day gone by in the time since that strike started that officers of the Department of Civil Aviation have not telephoned me or I have not telephoned them - invariably they rang me - to give a progress report on discussions which have taken place between themselves, the people involved in the dispute, the people associated with it, the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, the representatives from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and representatives of the PREI. 
Honourable members can rest assured that we never stopped moving on the dispute but we did it in the right and the sensible way whereby a settlement of a difficult situation can be brought about. Coming out and beating one's breast in the Press and on television and radio does not settle industrial disputes. I made a statement last Wednesday which was the second I had made in relation to that dispute. I had made one earlier which was very mild. Both my statements last week were very mild. At least the dispute was settled. I suggest that the honourable member for New England might go to Sydney and give his friend Askin some help to see what can be done to settle the power dispute which has been going on for God knows how many months. 
Of course they do not want it settled. They are trying to stir it up again. When the honourable member for New England talks about industrial disputes he should consider the 'Echuca' dispute. 
This is all dealing with the estimates. These are all questions that were raised, in the main, by the honourable member's colleagues. The 'Echuca' dispute which involved the PREI, cost the Australian National Line $2m. What did the then Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for New England, do about that dispute? Where was this great prowess that he claims to have for settling industrial disputes? Why did he not apply it to that dispute and to a few other industrial disputes that were in existence at that time? I suggest that there is only one way of trying to settle industrial disputes. You do not settle them by making statements in the Press. The more that is said the more that has to be retracted. 
The honourable member for New England also raised some questions about the money to be spent on developing country airports. In this year's estimates money has been allocated for this type of development and for local ownership. A sum of $385,000 has been allocated for development and $600,000 for maintenance. In the main this is the average of what has been allocated in previous years, so the honourable member for New England can rest assured that we will continue to maintain airports as and when required. Once again he has performed the usual LiberalCountry Party act of making a belated demand for something to be done in his own electorate. He has probably been the honourable member for New England for 7 or 8 years, since  Mr Drummond  retired some years ago. I noticed that the honourable member has just returned to the chamber. He had any amount of opportunities in the time that he was Minister for Shipping and Transport to do something about his home town electorate and airport. When its turn comes round we certainly will deal with it. These are the things which annoy me. We had a Liberal-Country Party Government for 23 years- 
Yes. At least we made a decision; that is more than you guys did. You fellows were here. You sat on reports. You were not prepared to make decisions. You just shelved them one after the other. It took from 1969 to 1970 to decide whether you would do something. Then you received a report at the end of 1970, sat on it until 1971 and did nothing about it. I do not want to hear from members of that do nothing 
Government. The matter was adjourned and put on the shelf. Do not let us look at your record, boy. That is why you are in Opposition today. 
The next point the honourable member for New England raised was the appointment of the new Secretary of the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation. He was my selection. He was my recommendation. The Prime Minister concurred with it. If I think he is the best man, I will appoint him to the job. I recognise that we have some good public servants in Australia. I have the greatest appreciation for the assistance given to me in my 10 months as Minister by members of the Department of Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation. I have received the maximum co-operation and assistance from my 2 departments. At the same time I am sorry to say that both  Sir Donald  Anderson and  Mr Mal  Summers were not available for this position. It became vacant and I took the action I did. I am prepared to stand up and debate with anyone the relative merits of my action. I have not been critical at any time of the appointment of Americans or others to Australian companies. So I am probably pure on this question. I am free to do as  I  think fit and to do what I think is right. I did what I thought was right. 
I turn now to Australian flag vessels. We are moving to have greater Australian involvement in our overseas shipping. It will please honourable members to know that the Australian Enterprise' and the 'Australian Endeavour' are now operating profitably. We hope to expand our participation in overseas affairs. Recently I had a most fruitful discussion with my counterpart from New Zealand,  Sir Basil  Arthur, and we agreed that Australia has a part to play in the transTasman trade. As a result of this I am hopeful that at a very early date Australia will have ships in the trans-Tasman trade. The trade unions - those villainous organisations about which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  talks - have had discussions. Just in that field alone I think that the Government has had a very fruitful 10 months. 
Honourable members opposite have questioned where we are going in the shipbuilding industry. I thank the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  for his comments on shipbuilding. The fact is that, even though the Opposition has not any confidence in the Government, the shipping industry has. If one examines the position in the shipbuilding industry in Australia today one finds that when the Labor Party took over on 2 December there were 39 vessels under construction, and today there are 75. In December 1972 the number of vessels on which tenders had closed but no orders had been placed was seven and on 8 October it was 33. On 2 December 1972 the number of vessels on which tenders had been called was 2 and today it is 24. The number of vessels on which tenders may be called was 17, and today it is 6. In those 4 categories there were 65 ships under construction or intended construction on 2 December, and today there are 138. 
Admittedly, many of those are prawn vessels and ships of about that tonnage, but the Government has indicated to the ship owners by its action that no more permits will be issued next year and they are now placing orders in Australia for ships and are maintaining a number of very small yards which are quite expert in the field of small ship construction. As far as larger ships are concerned, I do not want to go through the whole list but if at any time any honourable member wants a copy of it he can obtain it from my office. He will see that even the larger ship owners today are able to plan their shipbuilding orders 4, 5 or 6 years in advance. 
The honourable member for Mackellar expressed his great support for public transport. He is another bloke who was a member of the Government which was here for 23 years. For 23 years it gave nothing to public transport. Suddenly, now that we are doing something about it - we have provided $32m in this year's estimates - honourable members opposite want to jump on the bandwagon and to tell us what a great thing it is that the Federal Government should be interested in public transport. Why did they not do something about it? This Government acted. It is doing something about it and it will continue to do something about it. The $32m in the estimates this year is the first allocation and there will be more next year. 
The same thing can be said about the honourable member for Petrie, who raised the question of the electrification of the suburban railway system in Brisbane. I am informed that the Labor Government which was defeated there in 1957 was getting on with the job. John Duggan, who was the Labor Minister of Transport at that time was getting on with the job and it would have been well and truly completed today if that tragic Country Party-Liberal Party Government had not been elected and if the unfortunate split in the Labor Party had not taken place at that time. So Queensland was most unfortunate that the Labor Party went out of office there. The honourable member can rest assured that the Australian Labor Party Government will take up where the Queensland Labor Party Government left off in 1957. 
Money already has been allocated in this year's estimates to get on with the job. We already have taken part in a survey to determine the types of trains and what is required in electrification and in providing suburban services there. We already are getting on with the job and we will keep on with it. As the Queensland Government brings forward programs to us, they will be evaluated and money will be provided on the basis of $2 for $1. The honourable member need not worry about it. The Labor Party will be getting on with the job of providing urban transport for Queensland, and Brisbane in particular, and we will not abandon it as the honourable member's Party did when it was elected in 1957. 
They sold a lot of it out. That is the situation. If the honourable member for Petrie wants to know what is available, I will give him the paper or incorporate it in Hansard, whichever he wants me to do. The honourable member for Mackellar once again came out with the usual anti-com, hate the unions bogy. After all, the moon is just about full now, so we expect this type of thing from him. 
As far as freeways are concerned, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and I have stated that we do not agree with all the freeway proposals that have been put forward by the States. I do not propose to back out of that. I do not think that all freeways are good and I do not think that they are all bad, either. But there are too many of them. This has been brought about by the backward thinking of the last 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. All it wanted to do was allocate money for the construction of roads. It was not prepared to do anything about providing money for public transport. The result was that the States became road orientated in their thinking. They wanted to build roads, freeways and all the rest of it. We have to try to profit by the mistakes that have been made in the United States of America, Canada and Europe where there are some beautifully constructed freeways, tollways and expressways. In Los Angeles, which has probably the greatest system of freeways in the world, the result there is that the people are nearly choking themselves to death with the smog from the motor car. 
The Government does not propose to see Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and our other cities developed into that situation. It will not proceed to adopt and accept the road programs that have been put forward by the States. It proposes to have a national highways system. It proposes to provide money for the roads which it believes should be constructed in the interests of the people of this country. That applies also to what the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  had to say about the Sturt Highway. If we had had a LiberalCountry Party Government here forever we would never have had the road completed. We believe that there should be a national highway system under which roads such as that and the Eyre Highway will be completed. We propose to think nationally and not in the parochial fashion in which States think. 
The honourable member for Grey referred to conditions, allowances, etc., for employees of the Commonwealth Railways. It was unfortunate that just recently there was a stoppage by these employees. The first I knew about it was when it actually started. I was not approached in advance of it. When I was approached on it we took the necessary action to get someone to go to the area where the dispute was and try to settle it. As the honourable member for Grey stated, thanks to his intervention and bringing the facts to my attention we have been able at least to get somewhere, and these people are now better able to live with the conditions that exist. 
I turn next to concrete sleepers. The former Country Party Minister for Shipping and Transport made a political decision on the eve of the last elections to abandon the idea of using concrete sleepers in favour of timber sleepers, notwithstanding the fact that the Bureau of Transport Economics had clearly established that concrete sleepers at that time were a much better proposition than timber sleepers were. We have had the whole question investigated and closely examined. I have had representations from the Minister for Forests in Western Australia, and the same thing in reverse from the Minister for Transport in South Australia. As a result of this, submissions were made to us by the 2 groups - the timber group and the concrete group. We have had them examined, and the result is that there is no doubt - it is unquestionable - that at the prices which were being quoted at that time concrete was a much better proposition. Since then we have called fresh tenders so as to permit the concrete and timber groups to submit fresh tenders, and I hope in the next couple of days to be in a position to announce the result of those inquiries, which will not displease the honourable member for Grey. 
I conclude by referring' to one other matter. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  quoted me as saying that I was determined to put Connair Pty Ltd out of business. What I said, if I recall correctly, was that we would set out to break up the racket that had been perpetuated by the previous Government which had made an agreement under most favourable conditions with Connair. I say this to the honourable member for the Northern Territory: I challenge Connair to tear up its Liberal-Country Party handout, feather bedding, cost plus contract and to renegotiate with the Government a realistic contract with a reasonable measure of risk being accepted by Connair. This is the situation. If it is prepared to tear the contract up we will enter into a more realistic and practical one - not a new one like the previous Government negotiated with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and which was ratified by this Parliament in one of the last Liberal-Country Party Government Bills to go through this place. Ansett was shrewd enough to know that the previous Government had had it and therefore he got himself a new agreement which takes him through to 1982. These are the facts of life. Let us deal with this question of Connair. The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that I was trying to put it out of business. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party will cease interjecting. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party says that we are trying to put Connair out of business. What I did was to challenge it to tear up the agreement which his former Leader negotiated with it and which put it in a most favourable position. Tear it up and let us get into what the Opposition talks about - a truly com petitive, free enterprise situation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party would not be m that under any circumstances because he knows who negotiated the existing agreement and why it was negotiated. That is the situation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member for die Northern Territory has already spoken in this debate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will cease interjecting or I will deal with him. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  please do not throw him out. I want to rubbish him completely in dealing with him. He says that I am trying to put Connair out of business. 
I did not say it. 
I did not say it. 
I challenged Connair and I challenge the honourable member as a former director. You were a former director, were you not? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Minister will ignore the disorderly interjections. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I will not warn the honourable member for the Northern Territory again. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  it would be interesting if you could tell me whether the honourable member for the Northern Territory was a director of Connair. 
He might have an axe to grind. Let me conclude on this point: The honourable member is a bit unlucky, because before I came into the Parliament after dinner I signed papers which actually authorised the purchase of a DC3 aircraft by Connair. Is that the action of a Minister who is going to put it out of business? I also took other action, which was not as a result of any request from Connair, to give it some assistance and to give its workshops an opportunity to do work. I have asked that in future, instead of Trans-Australia Airlines placing its maintenance work on any Northern Territory aerial medical service aeroplanes, it be thrown open to tender. Connair can tender for it and if it puts in the right price it can have it. These are the facts. I have no personal grudge against Connair, but I have a complete abhorrence of the feather bedding that was indulged in by the former Government, in this case by the former Leader of the Country Party in particular. We do not propose to live forever with the feather bedding that has taken place. We propose to take whatever action we can so that at least Connair is put on a competitive basis and if other people want to move into the field they can do so. Honourable members opposite talk about free enterprise but they never practise it. That is the situation. Mention was made of the air conditioning of the Darwin Airport. Once again we had 23 years during which the Liberal Government did nothing about it. At least we will give it a go. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)-  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member will not debate the question. He has made his personal explanation. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England)-  Mr Deputy Chairman,  1 wish to make a persona) explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The second misrepresentation by the Minister related to the allegation that I did nothing to further the advancement of construction of the airport at Tamworth. In fact the program for the reconstruction of Tamworth airport was intended for inclusion in the estimates of the Department of Civil Aviation this year. It was excluded, as I understand it, only as a result of the reconsideration of the program of forward construction by the Minister and by the Labor Government. For that reason I claim that the 2 allegations against me were not justified and, in fact, reflect the Minister's own inability to understand the extremely complex problems in which he should have been personally involved in terms of the resolution of the Sydney airport. 
I want to make 2 very quick points. I know that the debate on the Estimates is to be interrupted at 10.15 p.m. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  asked where the $lm for the acquisition of land at Brisbane has been provided for in the Estimates. It has been provided for in Division 940. 1.06 of the estimates for the Department of Services and Property. Division 940. J. 06 is a total allocation for the Department of Civil Aviation. The sum of Sim is included in it. It certainly is not spelt out as being Sim for Brisbane; but that is where the Sim has been provided for. 
I appreciate the points that were just made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  If there is any specific complaint that he wants to make about airline operations in the Northern Territory, I will be happy to receive a letter from him about them. The honourable member has questioned the safety of certain aircraft operations. He can rest assured that I will not permit any reduction in air safety standards. The Department of Civil Aviation will not agree to that either. If the honourable member has any specific complaints he wishes to make or if he wishes to refer to a particular incident, I will be happy to receive correspondence from him. Any correspondence I receive will receive the attention which any complaint from any member of Parliament or any other person is entitled to receive. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  again has referred to the strike involving the 'Echuca'. He said that the strike did not cause any public inconvenience, as has the strike by technicians at airports. The fact of the matter is that that strike did cost the Australian National Line $2m and it did inconvenience many people at the time. The only solution members of the then Government had for a settlement of the strike by members of the Professional Radio Employees Institute was the bringing in of the Army, 
Navy or Air Force. The former Minister for Shipping and Transport asked in this chamber on Tuesday why the Government did not bring in the Services in this instance. That would have been the previous Government's solution to the problem. It would have had the whole of Australia involved in one hell of a confrontation. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  It being 15 minutes past 10 o'clock p.m. in accordance with the order of the House of 1 March, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech announced the provision of $32m this financial year for upgrading urban public transport services. This marks the commencement of a program of assistance to the States to provide efficient and economic public transport systems in Australian cities. 
The development of this program with the States has been regarded as our top priority in the field of urban public transport. 
The question of providing grants for free off peak travel has not been considered within the context of the assistance program. It will be examined at a later date in consultation with the State transport authorities. 
Domiciliary Nursing CareBenefits  (Question No. 882) 
We have made an offer to all States to make available to them this financial year a total of some $3 2m for the upgrading of various forms of public transport. The Victorian Government has written and advised me that it is prepared to accept the money but is not prepared to accept it under the conditions which we have laid down. I want to make very clear what the conditions are but I will not go through each one because members of the Opposition would object to the time that that would take. 
All but one of the conditions have been included in previous Commonwealth-State railway agreements and accepted by all of the States at some time or another. The only new condition is one which provides for Australian Government representation in the operations of the State public transport undertakings. We want to be part and parcel of the responsibility of upgrading public transport and providing facilities for people in underdeveloped sections of the cities. I know that the honourable member is a councillor of the Diamond Valley Council. He is greatly concerned with the fact that the proposed railway is not being proceeded with in bis section, and in other outlying parts of Melbourne. We have asked the State Government for representation and an acceptance of responsibility. Contrary to what has been said by  Mr Meagher,  it is not our desire to veto the general operations of the Victorian railway system. This allegation is completely untrue. But we want to know what is happening in the system and what is required for the future. In other words we want to be part and parcel of the development of the cities and to provide the necessary development in outlying suburbs so that the people there can obtain the assistance of Commonwealth finance and co-operation. This matter was to have been discussed last Friday at a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Sydney. Unfortunately, due to the Professional Radio Engineers Institute dispute it was decided to postpone the meeting for some time, but that meeting will be held at an early date. The only other thing I wish to say is that I made the statement on 16 February this year. The then Minister of Transport in Victoria,  Mr Wilcox  seemed to be only too delighted to accept my offer. I am astounded at the difference in attitude with the change of Minister. 
I understand that Pioneer Tourist Coaches Pty Ltd, which is a fully owned subsidiary of Ansett Transport Industries, has a monopoly of the Sydney to Canberra bus services- 
That is the way it would like to have it, but it cannot. My understanding of the position is that on interstate transport no licensing is necessary. I was of the impression that the Australian Capital Territory was in a similar category to the States but I have since found out from my inquiries into this matter that the High Court in the past has ruled that the ACT is not a State and therefore the protection of section 92 of the Constitution does not prevail. So the New South Wales Government's policy of granting only one licence is paramount and we can do nothing about it. We could issue a licence for travel to the border of the ACT but that licence would have no effect in New South Wales. I think it is about time the NSW Government provided some competition on the Sydney to Canberra run and treated it as an interstate journey, permitting free and open competition, which Ansett always espouses and which that Government allegedly supports. 
It is perfectly true that an order was placed with the Williamstown naval dockyard for the construction of a ship which I believe would normally have gone to Maryborough. As a result of representations made to me by the honourable member for Wide Bay and at his invitation I recently visited Maryborough, had a discussion with the management of Walkers Ltd shipyard and received certain assurances from it. The Minister for Defence and myself have had a number of discussions as late as yesterday on this matter and we are hopeful that at a very early date satisfactory orders will be placed with Walkers shipyard so that it can go on with the job of building ships. I give this assurance to Walkers Ltd, to the workers in its employ and to the honourable member for Wide Bay: As far as I am concerned Walkers is one shipyard I certainly do not want to see closed. It is a first class yard which in the past has built very good small ships, and we are hoping that in the future it will continue with that work. The problem that was created was the result of its tendering on the basis of dividing its overhead charges between 2 jobs. Because of the transfer of the order to another yard those overhead charges would have been loaded on to one job. As I said, the Minister for Defence and myself are hopeful of having before the end of this week a very satisfactory answer. 
 In rising to speak to the debate arising from the presentation of the interim report of the Select Committee on Road Safety concerning the setting up of a national authority I thank all members of that Committee for having brought the report down and for the manner in which they have gone about their responsibilities. They have an important task and the manner in which they have gone about it has been indicated by the enthusiasm of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The same enthusiasm has been evident in Committee members from the Opposition. When committees operate in this way we know that we will get reports that are prepared by men who are interested in and conscious of their responsibilities. For that reason I thank them for the report. 
In recent times considerable attention has been paid to the tragic loss of life and limb on our roads and many proposals have been put forward with the aim of reducing or eliminating such loss. We have had our successes, in particular with seat belts. The Select Committee on Road Safety has estimated that seat belts probably have saved about 850 lives during the past 2 years. Some 850 Australians who are walking about today owe their lives to seat belts. To this number we must add those who would otherwise have been severely maimed and handicapped as paraplegics and quadriplegics. But we cannot afford to be complacent. The road toll has again started to rise. Last year there were 3,422 fatalities and in the 7 months to July of this year 2,044 Australians lost their lives on our roads compared with 1,905 in the same period_of_last year. 
The Australian Government has recognised the road toll as a national problem warranting urgent co-ordinated action at the national level. The Government moved for the reappointment of the Select Committee on Road Safety. It accepted the major recommendations of the expert group, in particular the creation of a central information service for those working in road safety and a program of low cost improvements at locations with bad accident records. The sum of $3m has been provided for this purpose in this year's Budget and we will be looking at further support in the context of our review of the Commonwealth Aid Roads legislation. A total of $975,000 is being provided this year for road safety promotion and research. I referred to the Select Committee the recommendation by the expert group for a high level specialist national office of road safety so that I could have the benefit of its views. The Select Committee reported on 25 September recommending a statutory national authority on road safety and standards which would take over and intensify the present activities of my Department in the field of road safety, emission control and consumer protection. 
I have much pleasure in informing this House that the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Select Committee. We will set up a national authority on road safety and standards with the following terms of reference: (A) Advise the Minister for Transport on road safety, including proposals for financial assistance to the States for this purpose. (B) Formulate, in consultation with the relevant State and Australian authorities, proposals in respect of: Motor vehicle standards involving emission control and consumer protection as well as safety standards; road safety standards in respect of highway engineering, traffic management, roadside furniture and town planning; and uniform traffic codes; (C) Certify compliance of motor vehicles and vehicle components with approved standards. (D) Prepare road safety impact statements in respect of transport and urban development programs being financed to a significant degree out of Australian Government funds. 
Conduct road safety research on a multidiscipline basis by the use of outside bodies and persons and of its own staff and facilities. 
Collect and disseminate road safety research information. (G) Collect and disseminate in consultation with the Bureau of Census and Statistics national statistical information required by workers in the various disciplines relevant to road safety and relating to such topics as drivers, vehicles, accidents, etc., on an Australia-wide basis. (H) Conduct road safety education and publicity campaigns and co-ordinate State and Territory efforts in this field. 
As I have said, the Authority will take over and develop the work my Department has been doing for some time. This does not involve any criticism of the work which has been done. We are seeking a higher degree of efficiency in a function which involves a large and complex transport system within a complicated institutional framework. To achieve greater progress it is necssary to attack the problem on a wide front by the use of vigorous, co-ordinated and multidisciplinary methods. In recent years the difficulty of tackling the problem has been increased by the growing number of organisations which have responsibilities involving one aspect or another of the road safety problem. It has become obvious that the only way of handling this complexity with any degree of efficiency is to create a national body such as the one the Government has decided upon. 
The Authority is expected to be operational by the middle of 1974. We will appoint an interim commissioner to assist with legislative and organisational matters. It was expected that the necessary legislation would be introduced in the current session of Parliament. However, due to the weight of business, this may not be possible. To assist the Authority we will appoint an advisory committee on road safety research and information to carry on the good work of the expert group on road safety. We will also take an urgent and thorough look at the Constitutional position. Traditionally it has been accepted that the States had full responsibility in this field - except in the Australian Government's own Territories - but this view has come under challenge. In fact it has been suggested that the Australian Government has ready-made powers which would enable it to legislate effectively in the road safety field in a national context. 
The Government accordingly has decided to commission a thorough examination of the Constitutional situation so that we can remove as far as possible any barriers to effective action. In the final analysis the successful tackling of the road toll will depend on the goodwill and co-operation of all concerned. The Select Committee is to be commended on this its first report. I look forward to further valuable advice on how to deal with this national problem. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, Commonwealth Railways, Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Limited and Department of Civil Aviation. 
Nil. 
Department of Transport and Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. 
The Department of Transport will prepare annual reports commencing in 1973-74. I shall consider the question of the submission of annual reports by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads when the Government has completed its comprehensive review of roads policy. 
The 'Blythe Star' did leave Hobart on Friday at 1800 hours for King Island and was due there this morning. The information which I have is that the ship is sailing in a westward direction. In fact the nav-aid keeper at Maatsuyker Island reported sighting the vessel at 5 a.m. on Sunday. The Mary Holyman', which at the present time is about halfway up the west coast of Tasmania, where it is reported that the weather is fine - there are no weather problems - is keeping a lookout for the 'Blythe Star'. The Tasmanian Transport Commission was concerned yesterday. It chartered an aircraft to look for the vessel. The aircraft was unable to locate it. This morning the Royal Australian Air Force sent out a search plane to look for it, and it is anticipated that plane will have completed a total search of the island area by noon today to ascertain whether there is any sign of the vessel. The weather reports while the 'Blythe Star' has been at sea have been favourable, so there is no reason why it should have foundered in weather. There is no explanation at this point for the delay, but we are endeavouring to find out where the vessel is. Ships have been trying to contact it and will continue to do so. 
My understanding of the position is that the search and rescue centre in Canberra is operating on a 24-hour basis and is providing a service as was planned by the former Minister. I am satisfied with the way it is operating. 
In my opinion, the Victorian Minister for Transport has completely misrepresented the position. In February, when I, on behalf of the Government, made the offer to meet two-thirds of the cost of upgrading urban public transport, the then Minister for Transport in Victoria,  Mr Wilcox,  seemed to be quite enthusiastic about the proposal and raised no opposition whatsoever to the proposition that we would want a say in and would want to know what was happening with respect to public transport in Victoria. I was surprised and disappointed to receive recently correspondence from  Mr Meagher,  on behalf of the Victorian Government, stating that it was not prepared to agree to our proposal. I now refer to the claim that we are trying to dominate the affairs of the Victorian transport system and that we were going to veto the Victorian Government decisions. 
This is not true. All we want to know is what is happening. We want to know how our money is being spent After all, we are responsible for collecting the money and our offer of $9. 66m was what the Victorian Government could spend this year. As far as a final discussion on this matter is concerned, there was to have been a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Sydney last Friday week. But due to the trouble at the airports the Council was unable to meet. There will be a meeting at an early date. In fact, we are trying to arrange a meeting for 26 October. Although one Minister has indicated that he cannot attend the meeting on that date we hope to be able to iron out this matter at the meeting. But as the honourable member suggests, we will be quite happy to accept representation on the Melbourne and Metropolitan Transportation Committee because that is where the planning of transport in Victoria is taking place. That is what we are interested in, not in vetoing the Victorian Government financial affairs. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics on tenders to be let by the Commonwealth Railways for the  resleepering  of the Trans-Australian Railway. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920-1971, I present the thirteenth annual report on the administration and working of the Act and regulations made under the Act and on other matters  concerning civil air navigation which I consider should be brought to the attention of Parliament. 
My reply to the honourable member no doubt will be of interest to other honourable members. At 9.45 this morning the latest position with respect to the search for the 'Blythe Star' was that there had been no change in that no wreckage had been sighted, but an oil slick had been sighted on the west coast. Those in charge of the search have arranged for the police to visit the area of this sighting. It is in a pretty isolated place, as the honourable member would know, adjacent to his electorate, between the Pieman River and Sandy Cape. It is not expected to be able to determine whether the oil slick is from the 'Blythe Star'. It would be tomorrow at least before this would be known for certain, allowing for time to recover samples of the oil slick and to have them tested. 
With respect to the search that is continuing, thanks to the co-operation of the Services - the Department of Air and the Department of the Navy - through the Minister for Defence, 4 Royal Australian Air Force planes and 2 Navy tracker aircraft have been made available and they will continue to carry out the search. It was intended that, last night, there would be a search by RAAF aircraft again using flares which would be dropped. The hope was that in this way the attention of the men who may be on board the ship or who may be in lifeboats or on rafts might be attracted. This is considered to be one of the best methods of searching. Because of the inclement weather and low cloud level last night, those searchers were unable to carry out this operation. The honourable member raised the point of introducing helicopters into the search. As soon as question time is concluded, I will confer with the Minister for Defence to arrange for as many Service helicopters as are available to take part in this search. 
Authority has been given and approved by me to remove the wrecks. 
It has been conveyed by the Prime Minister to the Premier. I think the removal of the wrecks will be at Commonwealth expense. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Civil Aviation does not hold any record of the sound levels referred to in parts (1) and (2) of the question. Although Noise Exposure Forecasts have been prepared for various airports they are theoretical predictions of aircraft noise only and cannot be used to describe the actual noise environment. 
The statistics requested in part &lt;3) of the question are not readily available from the Bureau of Census and Statistics. It is possible that the information could be obtained in due course but the necessary research might delay the completion of other vital projects. 
Part (4) of the question refers to the number of people working at the airport and this number fluctuates fairly regularly. The figures quoted, therefore, are not to be treated as absolutely accurate. The airports are listed alphabetically with the number of people employed at each airport shown alongside. 
The answer yesterday by the Victorian Minister for Public Works to a question on notice in the Victorian Parliament about our handling of the dock situation in Victoria has been brought to my attention. I think one should take note of the events in the years preceding the election of this Government. 
I have no intention of retiring, or resigning either. One should look at the record of the Victorian Government and of the present Federal 
Opposition when it was in Government. In July 1970 an interdepartmental committee was set up to examine a request by the Newcastle State Dockyard, through the New South Wales Government, for assistance to build a dock in Newcastle. I have been informed that in December 1971 the Victorian Government made representations for assistance to the then Liberal Government and that this request went before the interdepartmental committee which reported on the matter in April 1972. I believe that it was not until August 1972 that the Premier of Victoria was informed that no money was available to assist Victoria in the construction of a dock. Under the former Liberal Government Victoria was not going to get any money to assist in the construction of a dock. But at least this Government has offered to provide finance and hold an interest in the dock commensurate with the amount of money that we contribute. If we pay for the lot, we will own the dock. If we contribute 50 per cent of the costs, we will hold a 50 per cent interest in the dock. - There are a number of errors in  Mr DunStan's  statement. I do not want to take up all the time that is available for question time in replying to these errors but the facts are that we made a decision in March that we were prepared to make a contribution for the construction of a dock in Newcastle and also a dock in Victoria. In May of this year the Victorian Government asked that a committee, comprising 3 representatives to be nominated by that State and one representative from the Federal Department of Transport, should examine docks overseas. The members of that committee are responsible for having held up this scheme between May and August of this year. It was not until August this year that the members returned and a report was prepared in the same month. I understand that on 24 August the position was summarised by the then Acting Premier of Victoria in a letter to the Prime Minister in which he said: The report on this study will shortly be submitted to my Government and will be followed by detailed submissions to the Federal Government regarding assistance for the dry dock.' We are still waiting for those submissions. 
That is the situation as far as this matter is concerned. The people responsible for submitting the report are holding up this project. I will admit to 2 things: One is that, as stated in the Press report to which the honourable member for Burke referred. I did cancel 3 appointments. The committee members did come to Canberra in August. I will be quite honest about it. I had not seen their report when they came to Canberra. They were due to come here on 12 July but both  Mr Crean  and myself were at a conference in Surfers Paradise. I plead guilty to that. Important decisions affecting this nation were made at that conference. On 11 October  Mr Crean  unfortunately was not available. I am  not blaming him for that because we all have our parliamentary and ministerial responsibilities. So rather than have those people come to Canberra I did cancel the appointment at 11.50 p.m. They were due in Canberra last Friday but that appointment was cancelled because a special Cabinet meeting, which required the attention of  Mr Crean  and myself, was called. I had 4 submissions to put before it. This afternoon, I will be meeting the New South Wales Minister for Public Works at 4.45 together with the Treasurer to discuss the New South Wales request and at the earliest possible date I will be seeing  Mr Dunstan.  We are aware of the urgency of this matter but honourable members should not forget that the Victorian Government was responsible for a 6-month delay which occurred in the middle of these negotiations. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I know that members will join with me in expressing our heartfelt relief to know that 7 of the 10 crewmen of the freighter 'Blythe Star' which has been missing since she left Hobart on 12 October bound for King Island, have been found safe. They were found late this afternoon on the eastern side of Tasman Peninsular after they had drifted ashore in a life raft and three of them made their way to the township of Dunalley and gave the alarm. A helicopter on charter to my department, which has been continuing the search, has collected the 4 men who were left on the beach and they are now receiving medical attention in Royal Hobart Hospital. I also must advise the House that 3 of the crew did not survive. I know the House joins me in expressing the sympathy of the Australian Government to the relatives and friends of these men. The survivors are: The Master, Captain Cruikshank; the cook, Alfred Simpson; the bosun, S. Leary; and seamen Cliff Langford, Malcolm McCarroll, M. T. Doleman. and Lenton Power. I understand the survivors have told officials that their ship sank off South-west Cape on Saturday morning, the 13 October, in relatively calm seas. 
I am sending a senior officer of the search and rescue section of my department to Hobart to co-ordinate inquiries into that aspect so that I may be fully informed. As I announced on Sunday, I shall be seeking a full and far-ranging inquiry into the sinking of the Blythe Star' and I shall be reporting to the House further on this matter later. A preliminary investigation will start as soon as possible. 
I did see a few paragraphs in one of the newspapers yesterday which stated that such a dock was available. We have not investigated it. As I said yesterday, we are still waiting on positive submissions from the Victorian Government as to what it requires as far as docks in Melbourne are concerned. In considering the purchase of a dock one has to decide on the condition of the dock, whether the price for which it is allegedly available represents value and whether we need a number of large docks. That applies not only to Melbourne but also tothe whole of the Commonwealth. We have  to decide whether we need a number of large docks. These are the things that have to be examined, just the same as the interdepartmental committee some 12 to 18 months ago had to take all these things into consideration. If the Victorian Government puts forward a proposition we will be prepared to have a look at it. 
I have not personally seen a report of the allegation referred to by the honourable member for Braddon, but I am led to believe that there is a statement in one of the Hobart newspapers this morning to the effect that survivors of the disaster did fire flares to try to attract the attention of Japanese fishing boats which were illegally fishing in territorial waters. If this is true then it certainly will be taken up with the Japanese authorities. It is a well known fact that foreign fishing boats do fish in Australian waters. I know from personal experience off the North Coast of New South Wales that they do fish there, they do pinch Australian fishermen's catches and they cut their lines adrift. These are the types of things they do. As far as I am concerned, now that the matter has been brought to our attention, it will be followed up. In fact, following on advice received of what was in the newspaper, I have asked my Department to make urgent inquiries into whether the reports are correct or not. 
There are 2 points in the question asked by the honourable member for Wilmot. I will deal first with that relating to the setting up of a court of marine inquiry. I have said all along that I was investigating the practicability of taking this action. I now am pleased to state that I have already taken steps to put in hand the necessary preliminary investigation. Under section 377a of the Navigation Act, I have appointed  Mr L.  W. D. Taylor to make the preliminary investigation into the loss of the Blythe Star'.  Mr Taylor,  who is the Regional Controller of the Department of Transport in New South Wales, is a senior officer of great experience in this field. He is a former ship's master and holds an extra master's certificate. When I receive the result of his investigation I will proceed immediately to the establishment of a full court of marine inquiry. 
The other part of the question dealt with the responsibility of ships' masters to report their sailing plan and position fixing. It is perfectly true that under the Navigation Act at the moment there is no requirement for ships' masters to lodge a sailing plan, as is the procedure with aircraft. Action is being taken to frame an amendment to the Act whereby ships' masters will be required to lodge a sailing plan. There is no question that we have the power to do so for interstate voyages, but up to this point, as I have said previously, the shipping interests have always opposed it. I suppose they have the idea that if they give an indication of where they are going it will give some commercial advantage to their competitors. As far as I am concerned, that is no longer on. 
I am hoping to have this amendment drafted as early as practicable so that we can do something about it. Ships' masters will be required not only to lodge a sailing plan but also to give position reports. As the honourable member said, in this particular case if the ship had been required to report its position we would have known before or immediately after it sank that it was in difficulties, whereas we did not know until Monday. It was due at 
King Island on Monday morning. The Tasmanian Transport Commission was concerned about the delay. It had already instituted preliminary searches and engaged a light aircraft to fly around the coast, but the ship could not be located. It was not until Monday night that the Marine Operations Centre was advised that the ship was missing. Proceedings were instituted immediately to conduct a search for it. If ships' masters lodge a sailing plan we will know where they are going. In this case no one knew for sure whether the ship was going up the east coast or the west coast. As a guide there was only a conversation between the ship's master and another ship's master in the Transport Commission. In future, if we know where they are going we will know where to look. If we have position reporting at periodic intervals, such as every 12 hours, at least we will have the last known position of the vessel. 
On Wednesday, 17 October, the Japanese Maritime Safety Agency in Tokyo was requested to alert to the situation all Japanese fishing vessels known to frequent Tasmanian waters. It was requested to ask Japanese vessels to keep a lookout for the ship itself, for wreckage and for survivors. That request was acknowledged by that Agency, but as yet we have received no advice as to whether the Japanese did find anything or see anyone. 
Since the honourable member for Braddon asked his question I have received some further information which may be of interest to him and also to the honourable member for Franklin. The Department of Transport surveyor in Hobart has talked to some of the members of the crew, but not to the captain as yet. They say that they saw fishing vessels which they thought were Japanese and that they were some 30 to 40 miles off the Tasman Peninsula light. The raft was about a mile away from the fishing vessels. They fired a rocket but received no response from the fishing vessels. Also, on 19 October the Royal Australian Air Force search aeroplanes reported sighting 2 Japanese fishing vessels about 25 miles south-east of Cape Pillar. These ships naturally were in open sea in international waters. 
by leave - I seek the indulgence of the Chair to add some information to answers I gave to questions asked earlier today concerning the missing vessel 'Blythe Star'. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  asked me what we had done about notifying Japanese ships concerning the loss of the vessel 'Blythe Star'. I should like to place on record the exact text of a message to the Japanese Maritime Safety Agency from the Marine Operations Centre in Canberra on 17 October. This is the text of the urgent message which was sent: 
Australian registered ship Blythe Star call sign VJNZ overdue on voyage from Hobart to King Island. 
Vessel sailed at 1208 hours GMT due King Island 1423 G.M.T. 
Description: Length 144 ft beam 25 ft 321 gross tons - light grey steel hull white superstructure, funnel and superstructure aft - two yellow masts. 
Vessel may now be drifting or wrecked south of Tasmania. Extensive air search in operation. 
Request Japanese fishing vessels south of Tasmania be told and asked to report sightings of vessel or debris. 
The reply which came back the same day reads: 
Ref your 170235Z Oct 73 / Blythe Star. Broadcasted your info to our Japanese fishing vessels near the scene. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is true that the Bureau of Transport Economics is carrying out a survey into freight rates on wheat as a result of a request that I received early this year from the Minister for Immigration. The Bureau has a very large program of investigation into various aspects of transport economics. This matter is included in that program but I do not know the stage that has been reached. 
I will make inquiries of  Dr Taplin  and give the honourable member a reply as to when  Dr Taplin  expects to complete the inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government believes that money collected as petrol tax should be regarded as a general revenue tax and not be linked directly to expenditure on road development. 
Roads are competing not only with other modes of transport but also with the other objectives of the Government. A direct linking of petrol tax to road development may result in expenditure on services which the community has indicated require high priority, being less than they should be. 
It is possible to compare petrol tax collections at any given time to necessary expenditure on roads. However to rigidly link the two would reduce the ability of the Government to attune its policies to match developing circumstances and the changing needs and desires of the Australian people. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Results of the Rail Car Preference survey carried out in Brisbane by the Bureau of Transport Economics have now been analysed, and it is expected that a report will be issued in the near future. 
One clear indication given by the survey is that people want to be assured of a seat on the train. Approximately 70 per cent ranked improved seat availability ahead of other desirable changes. 
Air conditioning and automatically closing doors also stood out as desirable features of carriage design. Other features of carriage design also elicited strong opinions. 
It is expected that the results of this survey will play a significant part in design of new rail carriages. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A large number of studies of urban, interurban and regional passenger and freight movements are being carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics in association with other relevant Commonwealth and State Government Departments and Authorities. 
In particular the Bureau of Transport Economics Is engaged in a major study of inter-regional passenger and freight flows. This study involves the collection of appropriate statistical information, the estimation of transport cost and demand relationships, and the development of a multimodal inter-regional transport planning model. 
In conjunction with this study several projects of a more specific nature are in progress. These include: 
Evaluation of development proposals for the Port of Brisbane 
The potential benefits of reducing the number of Australian port calls by container ships by increased use of surface modes A study of Brisbane's airport needs 
An aptimal upgrading program for the Melbourne-Adelaide railway 
Determination of the optimal rail wagon fleet to perform the Australian main line freight task 
A study of interstate rail freight terminals 
Container handling on Australian railway systems 
Assessment of the upgrading needs for the single track section of the Sydney-Melbourne railway 
A study of competition between modes in long distance passenger movements. 
Several studies are also proceeding on urban passenger movements and on the level of transport services and facilities in the major cities. These studies include: 
An examination of household characteristics and travel patterns in the Sydney area 
Estimation of a complete demand function for urban passenger transport 
Studies of the intra-urban effects of airport, port and rail terminal developments. 
In addition the BTE has a continuing commitment to the evaluation of specific public transport projects put forward by the States for Commonwealth assistance. A number of subsidiary projects are associated with this program and include: 
Analysis of bus replacement cycles 
A survey of consumer preferences in rail car  riage design (see answer to question No. 1108) 
I do not propose to list the terms of reference of the above studies in detail as their aims are implicit in their descriptions. 
A high degree of co-operation has been achieved between the Bureau of Transport Economics and State Authorities. However the degree of State involvement varies widely between projects and is often on a partial basis. Hence the numbers of State per sonnel involved in the studies cannot be estimated. However virtually all projects require substantial State contributions in the provision of data and technical assessments, and in project formulation and development. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When the previous Government introduced the Airlines Agreements Bill 1972 towards the end of the previous Parliament, we who were then in opposition expressed the view that it was inappropriate to enter into a further important agreement between the Government and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the Australian National Airlines Commission at that particular time. Nevertheless, the Parliament passed the legislation approving the 1972 Airlines Agreement. One of the provisions of the 1961 Airlines Agreement broadly states that the Commonwealth, while implementing its policy of full recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport, will not increase air navigation charges by more than 10 per cent in any one year. The 1972 Airlines Agreement re-affirmed this provision but added a further clause in which the airlines agreed that the Commonwealth is entitled to recover fully from the air transport industry the costs properly attributable to the provision of facilities for civil air transport and that they would facilitate the implementation of measures taken by the Commonwealth for the purpose of achieving that objective. 
Despite the clear reference to a policy of full cost recovery in the 1961 Airlines Agreement, the previous Government took very little positive action to achieve full recovery. In fact the recovery rate never reached 50 per cent. Also, notwithstanding the undertakings of the airlines in the 1972 Agreement to facilitate the implementation of Government measures to achieve full recovery, that Government did not increase air navigation charges last year by the full amount allowable under the agreements and in 1971-72 it made no increase at all. Consequently, the deficiency of recovery of operating costs has continued to increase each year as is demonstrated by Table A, which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In his speech on the 1973-74 Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  referred to the difference between the annual cost of providing and operating airport and airway facilities and the revenues derived from their use. He indicated certain steps which the Government proposed to take to narrow this gap between revenue and expenditure, and this Bill is designed to implement one of these measures, namely, to increase the rates of air navigation charges payable by aircraft operators. 
I have recently tabled in the Parliament the report of the working group appointed by a previous Minister for Civil Aviation to study the costs and revenues of the Department of Civil Aviation. Using the basis of calculation proposed by the working group, the costs attributable to the maintenance and operation of civil aviation airports and airways facilities in Australia and Papua New Guinea during 1972-73 exceeded the relevant revenues by some $69m. This deficit represents a subsidy, in varying degree, for each user of the civil aviation system. For instance, if considered from the viewpoint of airline passengers, and regarding each passenger carried as a separate individual, each of the 8 million passengers who travelled by air last year was subsidised by an average of $8.60 a journey. While this amount should be reduced to some extent to take account of other users of the facilities, it illustrates quite dramatically the extent of the burden borne by the taxpayers who do not participate in the aviation industry or avail themselves of the facilitites provided. 
The loss situation for 1972-73 is not an isolated instance but is merely an extension of the experience of previous years. Table A, which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard, clearly demonstrates this. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees, that if he wished to know the composition and function of any interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the PrimeMinister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The future operation of the ANL/ ACTA container ship fleet is the subject of a study currently being undertaken in London by the representatives of both shipping companies. 
Whether or not the ANL will add to its present share of the fleet is one of the considerations of the study. A decision on this matter is expected at the next ANL/ ACTA co-ordinating Board Meeting to be held in February 1974. 
The honourable member will therefore appreciate that it is too early to state whether the ANL will add further tonnage to its fleet of two in the Independent Service, or where any additional tonnage will be built. 
The freight rate differential, and the disadvantages apparently suffered by Tasmania in regard to freight rates, have been referred by the Government to the Special Minister of State for an appropriate reference to the Grants Commission. I understand he has the matter under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Commonwealth Railways have increased the rentals applying to their residences at Port Augusta, Stirling North, Port Pirie, Alice Springs and Darwin with effect from 7 October 1973 to cover increased maintenance costs. 
Rentals have been increased by $1.00 per week for residences currently renting at rates above $10.00 per week; by $0.75 per week for residences currently renting at rates between $7.50 per week and $10.00 per week; and by $0.50 per week for residences currently renting at less than $7.50 per week. The average percentage increase in rentals is 8.5 per cent. 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I did state that a reduction in fares would encourage people to use public transport. However, as a number of overseas studies have shown, this is only one of several measures that can be taken to increase the use of public transport. In recognition of the need to improve the comfort and convenience of public transport the Australian Government has indicated that it is willing to spend $32.09m in 1973-74 on improvements to urban public transport, including Sim on planning, research and development projects. 
Yes. I did state that the concept of free travel was something that had to be looked at. Investigations into pricing policies for urban public transport should be undertaken in co-operation with the States and such policies, including cost, will be discussed at the next Australian Transport Advisory Council Meeting. As an indication of the Australian Government's sincerity in this matter we propose to introduce an experimental free bus service between Canberra City and the Woden Valley in order to evaluate public reaction. 
Studies have been made in Australia, by the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and other agencies, which offer a guide to the likely response of public transport demand to fare and service improvements. In general terms these studies, and similar studies overseas, suggest that although demand is responsive to lower fares, it may be more responsive to service improvements. In addition demand for public transport cannot be considered in isolation from provision of facilities for the private motorist. One of the difficulties in Australia is that there have been very few public transport improvements from which to gauge demand response. As a result of recent initiatives by this Government the situation is about to change. The Department of Transport will, in co-operation with State Authorities, undertake a continuing program of research into user response to proposed transport changes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for work on the Eyre Highway rests with the appropriate authorities in South Australia. However, the following information has been supplied by the Department of Highways, South Australia. 
It is expected that the twenty-one mile section between Penong and Bookabie will be sealed by mid November 1973 at which time the highway will be open for use by motorists. 
Work is proceeding on the remaining 232 miles to the South Australian/Western Australian border and it is expected that the entire route will be sealed by June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The technical data used in the Bureau's August 1972 railway sleeper evaluation on re-sleepering the Trans-Australian Railway was based on information obtained from a number of Australian and overseas organisations. These organisations included the railway systems of Australia and a number of overseas railways including British Railways, South African Railways and the railways of the United Soviet Socialist Republic and the United States of America. Technical data was also obtained from the timber and concrete industries and a number of timber research organisations, such as the Building Research Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Forestry and Timber Bureau. 
After I rescinded the decision of the previous Government that timber sleepers would be used on the Trans-Australian Railway, I directed that new tenders be called and invited both the timber and concrete industries to put submissions to me on the type of sleeper that should be used on Commonwealth Railways and gave each industry the opportunity to comment on the other's submission. 
These submissions and comments, which covered technical as well as social and economic aspects, were fully considered prior to my decision to award the contract in favour of concrete sleepers. The Bureau's comments on the technical aspects raised by the submissions are included in the Bureau's supplementary report which I tabled in Parliament on 16 October 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 32 
29 
41. The remaining camps are supplied from other sources. 
Charges vary according to the type of plant provided. The charge made for camp power plants, provided at nine of the camps is 6.6 cents for the first 12 KW, 3.47 cents for the next 28 'KW and 2.09 cents for any additional consumption. 
The charge made for individual lighting sets provided at eleven of the camps is $1.00 per week which covers the rental of the generating set, maintenance of the set and the supply for four gallons of petrol per week. Four gallons of petrol per week would provide approximately three hours of lighting per day. Any petrol required in excess of four gallons per week is to be provided by the tenant. No charge is made for camp lighting sets provided at 21 camps, which are singlemen's camps. 
I am aware of the production of western Queensland. I am also aware of the responsibilities that I have to ensure that at least subsidies are reduced to a minimum. The honourable member referred to a reduction in services. It is true that Trans-Australia Airlines is rearranging its services in western Queensland to reduce the number of flights in that area. It will be introducing smaller aircraft so that people will be given a service. Admittedly the service will not be that provided by the larger aircraft operating in that area at the present time. What the honourable member omitted from his question, I think, was the fact that for every dollar of revenue received by the airlines operating in western Queensland a subsidy of $8.50 is paid and that this matter was under consideration by the previous Gov ernment with a view to doing something about it. I am proposing to do something about it. As far as the present Government is concerned, a subsidy ratio of 8.5 to 1 is not a tolerable level. A subsidy will be paid to the smaller commuter operators. We are trying to interlock their operations with a Fokker Friendship service from Brisbane through Charleville, Quilpie, Windorah and Birdsville to Alice Springs, and also with the service from Townsville to Mount Isa and from Mt Isa to Brisbane. We are not neglecting the requirements of the people in central western Queensland but we are giving due consideration to the excessive subsidy which has been paid in the past. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian/State Advisory Committee to study Western Australia's airport requirements has had its first meeting and a second meeting is scheduled for mid-November. 
The Advisory Committee is concentrating on the Perth region and, among other things, this is expected to lead to identifying a site for Perth's second airline airport. 
The Advisory Committee is not expected to report to Government on its Perth region studies before late 1974 or early 1975. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no plan in hand to resite Perth Airport. However, I would also like to refer you to my reply to your Question No. 1158. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No specific studies are presently being conducted by my Department into the provision of public transport systems suitable for the special needs of the aged and the handicapped. However, these groups are but two who have been disadvantaged in the past in regard to access to public transport. Others, for example, are residents of particular areas and shiftworkers. The Bureau of Transport Economics has commenced a study of the needs of these broader sections of the community. 
The honourable member will be aware that one of the first measures announced by the Government and brought into effect in the Budget was a substantial assistance program for urban public transport projects proposed by the States. This program will have a marked effect upon the levels of service, comfort and convenience which will benefit the community as a whole. I would expect that due regard will be paid to the specific needs of groups such as the handicapped and the aged in the development of plans and specifications for projects to be supported under the urban transport program and also in the design of the Australian Passenger Train. 
I would remind the honourable member that, of the $32.09m to be appropriated by the Australian Government in 1973-74 for assistance to the States for urban public transport,$1m will be specifically allocated for research and planning. The research projects to be supported under this scheme have still to be determined in conjunction with the States, but I can assure the honourable member that I would be prepared to approve studies of the type he has in mind. 
It is correct that, I think yesterday or the day before, a Bill was introduced into the Legislative Council in Western Australia to provide for TransAustralia Airlines to operate intrastate services in Western Australia. I understand that the Bill will be debated next week. In regard to what this will represent to Western Australia, I should like to say first and foremost that this matter was raised in this place almost 12 months ago by the former Government when it extended the period of the 2- airline agreement between Ansett Airlines of Australia and TAA. The previous Government gave an assurance that TAA would be permitted to operate intrastate services in Western Australia. I am hoping that, likewise, the Liberal and Country Parties in Western Australia will honour the assurances that were given in this place and in the Senate by the then Minister for Civil Aviation. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie asked what advantages will flow to, in effect the people of Western Australia as a whole. There will be an immediate reduction in air fares because, at present, MacRobertson Miller Airline Services, which is a fully owned subsidiary of Ansett, charges one fare, which is the top fare. TAA has given an assurance that it will introduce 2 classes of fares - first class and economy class - which will permit a 20 per cent reduction in fares for the people of Western Australia. Just to give the honourable member an example, for persons prepared to travel by economy class between Perth and Darwin there will be a saving of $62 on a return journey. That is just on that particular trip. If we take Port Hedland as another example, there will be a reduction of S30 in the return fare between Perth and Port Hedland. That is one advantage which TAA's entry into this service will represent. 
The people of Western Australia have something to look forward to. These fare reductions will help to stimulate tourist activity in Western Australia. Western Australia badly needs assistance in this type of development. TAA's entry into Western Australia will enable the introduction of cheaper fares and TAA will be able to introduce into that State package tours of the kind that it has introduced into every other State of the Commonwealth. These are concessions which, in the past, Ansett has been reluctant to grant. One of my directions to TAA was to introduce off-peak concession fares. This was resisted by Ansett and the former Government, but it is now operational. This is the type of concession that the people of Western Australia can look forward to. DC9 aircraft will operate on this service and, of course,, instead of companies in Western Australia having to wait up to a week and having to pay excess freight rates between Perth and other centres, because of the larger aircraft which will be operating and which will be able to carry about another 4,800 lb of cargo they will be able to move their freight at a much cheaper rate than at present. Rumours have been circulated in Western Australia to the effect that because of the introduction of TAA, MacRobertson Miller will have to withdraw some of its services. An assurance has already been given by  Sir Frederick  Scherger that any services relinquished by MacRobertson Miller will be taken up by TAA. So, I assure the honourable member for Kalgoorlie that his constituents have nothing to fear from TAA coming into operation in Western Australia and that they have very much to gain from reduced fares and a better service. 
I have seen the statements made by the Minister for Transport in New South Wales. I assure the honourable member for Macquarie, that all the proposals to which he has referred are items which have been tentatively approved by this Government in its policy of upgrading urban transport and in respect of which we have given the assurance that we will contribute two-thirds of the cost. To make wild statements to the effect that this work will be carried out only by a Liberal Government is to utter a complete lie. We do not care whether it is a Labor Government or a Liberal Government which is in power - we know that a Labor government will be elected in New South Wales on Saturday- 
We do not care whether it is a Labor government or a Liberal government that will be implementing this policy. We will make this contribution to any government that is prepared to upgrade its public transport in order to provide facilities much better than exist at present. It may be interesting for honourable members to know that the Australian Government has reached agreement already with 3 States on terms under which money can be allocated to the States. As yet that agreement does not include New South Wales Ministers. They have been a little tardy in their approach to it. This extravagant claim that is being made by  Mr Morris  is typical of the extravagant claims being made by other New South Wales Ministers about what they will do in the fields of health, hospitals, education and so on. All their election promises are based on money which is being made available by the Australian Government to New South Wales and other States to upgrade their various facilities for the people of those States. These are the facts. All the money that is being provided for education is being provided by the Australian Government, through the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  and not by the States. The same thing applies to transport. 
We are already considering a program involving approximately $200m for New South Wales.  Mr Speaker,  if you examine the record of the New South Wales Labor Party in transport you will find that in the 8 years prior to 1965, when the Labor Government was defeated, the Labor Government maintained bus fares at 15c for 6 sections. Since 1965 the New South Wales Liberal Government has increased fares to an average of 35c for the same journey. There has been over a 100 per cent increase in rail fares since the Liberal Government took office in New South Wales. As a result of increased fares there has been a serious decline in the number of people using public transport in New South Wales. We are pledged to correct this situation. We are determined that people will be encouraged to use public transport at a fare they can afford and with the comfort to which they are entitled. The statement by  Mr Morris  is a phoney one. The money is being provided by us to any government, irrespective of what political breed it is. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (a), (b) and (c): Vessels in excess of 200 gross tons on order or under construction as at 8 November 1973, the shipyards where the orders for these vessels have been placed and the construction period for each vessel are set out in the following table: 
Pursuant to Section 39 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1969, I present the annual report on the operations of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has given consideration to the establishment of the second airport in localities remote from Sydney. It has been established that additional time, cost and inconvenience to passengers in transshipping to Sydney would be considerable. Furthermore, the need to ferry passengers, arriving on large international aircraft, to Sydney in smaller types would result to no significant reduction of aircraft movements in the Sydney area and hence additional airport capacity in proximity to Sydney would still be required. The site at Hexham has severe disabilities, the most important of which is that it would not be compatible with the continued operation of military aircraft at Williamtown. 
A major international airport could not be established at Hexham without creating serious noise problems in the populated areas of Tarro, Beresfield, Woodberry, Hexham, Sandgate, Shortland and Birmingham Gardens. 
The Hexham site was investigated some years ago in connection with the requirements for a domestic airport for the cities of Newcastle and Maitland and surrounding areas. This was, of course, prior to the introduction of jet aircraft and their accompanying noise problems. The civil aviation requirements are now, however, being satisfactorily provided at Williamtown and, in fact, there are projects in hand at the present time to improve the civil terminal areas facilities extensively which will permit the operation of DC9 and B727 aircraft. There is no possibility of the second airport being established at Hexham at this time. I consider Williamtown would be a more suitable site. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All States, except Tasmania, impose a road maintenance tax on specified classes of commercial goods carrying vehicles. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because the prices offered by unsuccessful tenderers must remain confidential I am unable to provide a detailed breakdown of prices. 
On the basis of 133 kilometres of track the BTE report showed concrete $1.2m cheaper in terms of contract price and $1.9m cheaper in terms of cost delivered to site with fittings than 225 millimetre by 150 millimetre treated Jarrah sleepers. 
Concrete sleepers have been assumed in BTE report to have a life if 50 years. Evidence now coming to hand indicated that in practice this will be exceeded. 
Timber (treated Jarrah) sleepers have been assumed to have a life of 30 years but this now appears to be somewhat optimistic. 
Present value of maintenance costs over 50 years discounted to base year at 7 per cent for concrete sleeper track $25,000 per kilometre and for treated timber sleeper track $63,500 per kilometre. 
The safety record of concrete sleeper track in Great Britain is very good. 
Between Port Augusta and Whyalla in South Australia the concrete sleeper track brought into service just before the summer of 1972-73 has given no trouble. Indeed measurements taken before and after the summer period showed no deterioration in the alignment of the track. 
There have been no derailments on the Whyalla line whereas experience has been that new railway lines such as Port Pirie to Broken Hill built with timber sleepers have suffered derailments where the suspected cause was buckling of the track in hot weather. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 550 was published in Hansard on 22 October 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
After taking into account that locating a second airline airport to serve Melbourne is but part of an inquiry covering expected developments to the south-east of Melbourne, as a whole, it is not possible to give a worthwhile indication as to when the inquiry may be completed. 
It is understood that environment and conservation have been taken into account throughout the studies of the State Planning Advisory Committee in this area. In addition it is understood that before a final decision is made as to which particular airport site is preferred the State Planning Advisory Council will require an Environmental Impact Statement on each of the alternatives. (3 and 4) In the event of consideration being given the actual establishment of a second airline airport to serve Melbourne, as an Australian Government project, then public hearings primarily dealing with the environmental impact would be arranged in accordance with the recently announced policy of this Government. Any question as to whether the State Planning Advisory Council has in mind to conduct public hearings related to their total plans for that area should be addressed to the Victorian Government. 
Several sites have been identified to the north and north-east of Westernport Bay suitable for the establishment of a second airline airport as a result of consultations between the State Planning Advisory Committee and the Department of Civil Aviation. Current studies, co-ordinated by the State Planning Advisory Committee, are expected to lead to a firm recommendation for consideration by the State Planning Advisory Council. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The exact number of pensioners who took advantage of the 50 per cent fare concession available over Commonwealth Railways is not known as no records are maintained as to the number of journeys each pensioner undertakes in a year. 
Subject to this qualification, the total numberof pensioner-journeys may be taken as a guide. A total of 12,550 pensioner-journeys were made over Commonwealth Railways at concession rates during 1972- 73. Tickets issued indicate that these journeys originated as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 8 February the Prime Minister wrote to all the State Premiers indicating the Australian Government's willingness to accept responsibility for the railways of any State that is prepared to offer them, subject to mutually satisfactory terms. 
South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania and New South Wales agreed to enter discussions on the matter without commitment. 
Discussions with South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia are well under way. Discussions with New South Wales are expected to commence at the end of this month. As a result of these discussions an interim report will be made pointing out the main issues involved, to enable the two Governments involved to make a decision in principle on whether to proceed with negotiations for a transfer. 
The report on the South Australian railways is expected to be completed shortly, the report on the Tasmanian Government railways should be completed before the end of the year and the report on the Western Australian Government railways should be completed shortly after that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Inquiries have been made of several European shipyards to seek indicative prices and delivery dates for large bulk carriers. Offers have been received from the following shipyards: 
 I am pleased to note that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  does not intend to press his motion, so I assume that it will lapse after I resume my seat. The honourable member referred to the life raft and to the fact that it had an orange canopy which was about 12 feet in diameter. I should like him to understand that the orange canopy was put on the life raft deliberately because orange is the colour that is accepted internationally as being the colour most easily seen at sea. So, for that reason orange is the colour which is used in these circumstances. 
The honourable member for Mackellar asked what the defence authorities were doing. I do not want to canvass the matters which the marine court of inquiry will be investigating, but as far as I am concerned this will be one of the subjects into which the inquiry will be entitled to inquire. Although I do not have the Press cuttings with me at the moment, I know from my own interest in the sinking of the 'Noongah' that in his findings on that occasion  Mr Justice  Spicer was most critical of the Royal Australian Air Force for the manner in which it went about searching for survivors from the 'Noongah'. I do not think that we will escape any criticism if this inquiry into the sinking of the 'Blythe Star' finds that criticism is necessary.  Mr Justice  Dunphy who is conducting the inquiry will level criticism at any person, organisation or department which he considers should be criticised in relation to the search for the survivors of the Blythe Star'. The honourable member for Mackellar referred to this matter, and as far as I am concerned, if we were at fault, let the marine court of inquiry bring out the facts. 
I should like to draw attention to one other factor. The Tasmanian Transport Commission sent up a plane before the RAAF was called in, and that plane did not find the survivors. Even after the Department of Transport had called off the search by service aircraft after almost a week's operation, we still had a helicopter searching the coast. I believe that the Tasmanian Transport Commission likewise had a light aircraft searching the coast, but still no one picked up the survivors. The fact that the survivors got literally within hailing distance of a tourist hotel without being detected is one of the questions to which the court of inquiry will have to find the answers. I certainly have not got the answer to it. This is one of the answers which I hope will come out of the inquiry. 
I appreciate the fact that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said that we acted promptly, and I do not think that in any circumstances anyone can level any criticism at what we have done. The survivors of the Blythe Star' were found on 24 October. I immediately, even before the honourable member for Mackellar gave notice of his notice of motion, appointed Captain Taylor to conduct a preliminary inquiry. He reported to me confidentially yesterday. If I may, I will draw to the attention of honourable members the difference between the way in which I have acted in this matter and what took place in respect of previous tragedies like this. On 2 November, some 7 days after the survivors were found, I invited the Chief Justice to appoint a judge to conduct the Court of Marine Inquiry which I had directed should take place. 
Captain Taylor's report to me will be made available to the counsel assisting the judge. As far as I am concerned, it is a confidential report to me. Captain Taylor will make the full report available to the counsel. 
No, not at this stage. This is a procedure which the courts follow and I will not interfere in any way whatsoever with the procedures that this court wants to follow.  
The inquiry will commence, I believe, on 3 December.  .Mr Justice  Spicer was originally to conduct the inquiry but he has informed me that due to ill health he will not be available until February. I was informed of this last Friday. My reply was that whoever was to conduct the inquiry was a decision for him, not for me. I was asked whether I wanted to make a recommendation. I said: 'No, as far as I am concerned  Mr Justice  Spicer, the Chief Justice, will make the selection of who would conduct the inquiry'. That is the position at the moment in regard to the inquiry. 
As I have said, I am appreciative of what the Opposition has said about my actions. I inform honourable members that on 3 December voluntary position reporting and voyage plan procedures will be brought into operation. The Marine Operations Centre will be conducting this. Shipping companies will be invited - we cannot at this stage direct them to do so - to lodge their voyage plan and we will invite them to have their vessels report their positions regularly so that we will know where a ship is at a particular time. In the case of the 'Blythe Star', if the captain had reported his position at 5 a.m. or 6 a.m., the times at which I believe he was expected to report, then we would have known within 12 hours of the last known position of the vessel that it was somewhere between a little east of the position where it sank and the next position at which the captain was to have reported. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that as late as Sunday afternoon the owners of the vessel were not concerned about its non-arrival, but they were annoyed that it had not arrived on time and that the captain had not altered his estimated time of arrival. In my opinion this is one of the major contributing factors to the reason the survivors were not found at an earlier hour. 
In relation to voyage plan and position reporting, these procedures will apply to Australian ships and also to foreign trading ships. The legislation is in the process of being drafted so that we will be able to impose on shipping companies a legal requirement that before a ship leaves a port it shall report to the Marine Operations Centre setting out the route that it will follow. Vessels will also be required to report their positions periodically. To show that this is under way, I inform honourable members that additional staff will be required. We have already approached the Public Service Board seeking approval for the appointment of 3 professional assistant co-ordinators and 7 clerical assistants. Advertisements will appear in next Saturday's newspapers for the 3 assistant co-ordinators. Advertisements for the positions of clerical assistants appeared in last Saturday's newspapers. So on this matter the Government has acted promptly, as the Opposition has said. I believe that we have done everything possible to make sure that another 'Blythe Star' incident does not occur. 
We can all refer to what has happened in the past, but the fact is that the Navigation Act should have been reviewed long ago. These new procedures should have been written into it. I believe that there was opposition from the industry to the introduction of voyage plans and position reporting, probably because one company did not want another company to know where its vessels were, what they were doing and how they were progressing. But we are not concerned with that for the future. Our attention has been drawn to a serious state of affairs and we will rectify it as early as we can. As the honourable member for Mackellar intends to withdraw his motion, I do not propose to deal with it any further. I appreciate his bringing it forward. It has enabled him to put his point of view. It has also enabled other people to put their points of view. 
The honourable member referred to radar reflectors. This is a matter which does concern the international maritime world. Maritime bodies are working on it. They are trying to devise a system even to the extent that on life rafts reflectors will be woven into the canopy to create the necessary reflection for radar detection. It would appear that internationally everything that can be done is being done to ensure that incidents such as the sinking of the 'Blythe Star' do not occur in the future, and also to ensure that life rafts do reflect radar. I know that one newspaper ran an article on a piece of equipment which Hawker de Havilland Aust. Pty Ltd has. 
 That is right. That company suddenly discovered it had this equipment a month after the 'Blythe Star' incident. I was not aware of its existence. If we had been known of it we could have used it. If we had that sort of equipment we certainly would have used it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Much work has been done on sound insulation overseas and in Australia, and although the results to date have not been completely satisfactory investigation is continuing. The Department of Civil Aviation is watching the developments with interest hut it is known that the circumstances prevailing in the United Kingdom are not necessarily comparable to Australia. Effective insulation against noise can only be achieved in an atmosphere which is totally enclosed, and the way of life in Australia is not wholly responsive to such restrictions. 
There is no provision under Commonwealth or State law providing for the reimbursement of housing insulation costs to combat aircraft noise and the Government would not be willing to accept responsibility for these costs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Although aircraft noise is an item of major concern, compensation does not remove the cause of the problem. It is the belief of this Government that all available resources should be directed towards reducing the effects of aircraft noise and finally eliminating the problem. Australia is represented on the Committee that has been set up by the International Civil Aviation Organisation to make recommendations on reducing noise emitted by aircraft engines, and significant reductions in noise levels have been achieved in the more recent developments of aircraft jet engines. There is every reason to believe that the overall noise situation will be further improved in the future. 
A lockout does not exist between Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. Members of the Federation can return to work whenever they are ready to commence duty on condition, of course, that they give an undertaking that they will continue to work and not place the travelling public in the invidious position of first buying a ticket and then of being transported if the pilots elect to remain at work that day. I do not think any airline can operate under those conditions. The honourable member asked whether the pilot in question has been offered alternative employment. Yes, TAA has offered him alternative employment in a non-flying capacity. If the Federation is so concerned about his future employment then I inform it that there is a job for him at TAA in a nonliving capacity. Honourable members can be assured of one thing: Under no circumstances, whether it be by threat of strike action or by any other action, will the safety record of TAA be at any time reduced. Honourable members opposite have been chiacking, first of all, the Prime Minister by directing questions to him on this subject. It is interesting to note that one of the principal instigators of this dispute is, I believe, a Liberal Party nominee for pre-selection for the seat of Mitchell, and that, in actual fact, he was the campaign director for the defeated Liberal candidate for Mitchell at the last election. So if honourable members opposite are so concerned about peace in industry why do they not talk to their own candidates and influence them to create some peace in industry and to provide transport for the people? Honourable members opposite should have a look in the mirror. They will find just as much disruption in their own ranks. 
There is no reason in the world why the pilots should not be flying at this present moment. As far as holding up any appeal or frustrating in any way whatsoever the right of appeal of the gentleman in question, let me very briefly trace what has happened. I do not want to go into the matter in detail because the whole of it is still subject to appeal. At the present time the Flight Crew Officers' Industrial Tribunal is meeting in Melbourne to determine whether this is lockout action. It has received an application from the Australian Federation of Air Pilots for lockout bans to be written into the agreement. The Department of Civil Aviation has already investigated this incident after the dismissal of the pilot by TAA and later his appeal was rejected by the Australian National Airlines Commission. The Department of Civil Aviation has suspended the pilot's captain's licence and his instrument rating licence. It has issued a notice to him to show cause within 14 days why these licences should not be cancelled. There is nothing to stop that man lodging his appeal immediately and giving reasons why his licence should not be cancelled. That appeal can be dealt with, and after it is dealt with he has the alternatives of going either to a board of review or to the Supreme Court of the State or Territory in which the matter occurred or, if he does not want to go to that State or Territory, to refer it to a State 
Supreme Court agreed to by the union and the Director-General. So there is ample opportunity for appeal. To suggest that  Sir Donald  Anderson - in case the honourable gentleman does not know his name, that is what it is- 
I do not know who wrote the question for the honourable gentleman; but the fact of the matter is that  Sir Donald  is  chairman  of the board of Qantas Airways Ltd, and I think it would place him in a most invidious position if he had to arbitrate on the actions of another government airline. So, as far as I am concerned, that proposition is not on. 
As to the honourable member's concern about the people in the Gulf Country having food supplied to them, if it can be shown that air transport is necessary to transport food there for their requirements I am certain that my colleague the Minister for Defence will be only too happy to make defence aircraft available. He would be prepared to make defence aircraft available to transport food there for the people if they get into a situation where normal means of transport cannot carry it; in fact, I myself would even have a look at providing DCA aircraft for the purpose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Systems are in service both overseas and in Australia in which computers are used to assist in the control of traffic speeds on arterial streets, particularly at intersections. Developments in this field are kept under review by the Department of Transport, with a view to encouraging the further use of suitable systems in Australia where practicable. My Department has taken steps to acquire copies of any publications by  Dr Helvey  which are relevant to this topic. 
Transportation of Dangerous Goods by Road  (Question  No.  1248) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian standards concerning such matters are contained in the 'Model Code for the Transport of Dangerous Goods by Road' prepared by an advisory committee and endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The code sets down requirements upon which new or amended State and Australian Government legislation might be drafted in order to introduce more uniformity in the various regulations in Australia. 
The model code currently includes provisions relating to: 
Training of drivers in handling of dangerous goods 
instructions to drivers on the action to be taken in case of emergency, and reminders on contact with manufacturer and emergency services 
provision of fire extinguishers and instructions to drivers on their use 
security of the load. 
The model code is constantly under review and such matters as have been raised are taken into account. 
The matter of under-run barriers for commercial vehicles is currently under study by the advisory committees to the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The advisory committees are also examining measures to increase the visibility of the vehicle with the aim of preventing collisions and the committees are studying recent United Kingdom experience with the use of high visibility reflective placards. 
The aim of the Government's overall transport policy is to provide Australia with a modern, efficient and economic integrated transport system with each transport mode performing those tasks to which it is most suited. There is already some evidence to suggest that the proportion of the domestic freight traffic task, in terms of ton-miles, performed by rail compared with road is increasing. Most of this increase would be due to a substantial increase in freight moved by rail on long distance routes. I would hope that as we are able to redress the present imbalance in investment in the different modes, particularly rail vis a vis road, the problem will right itself. In fact I have already asked the Bureau of Transport Economics to undertake a comprehensive study of the mainline railway systems to establish their investment needs for freight operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Roads in conjunction with State road authorities has recently completed a survey of Australian roads to be used in its report to the Australian Government on financial assistance to the States for roads after June 1974. This report will recommend action aimed at upgrading roads to acceptable standards. The survey was not, however, designed to determine which specific locations would need emergency run-off areas. 
The Australian Government has also initiated a program of traffic engineering and road safety improvements at accident locations, for which $3 million has been provided in the budget for 1973-74. Only a few of the projects submitted by the State authorities for consideration under this program involved emergency run-off areas. 
A committee known as the Australian Committee on Road Devices is at present preparing an Australian manual of uniform traffic control devices. Part of the manual relates to the use and application of the various devices, including recommendations for the uniform application of safety ramps. This could form the basis for a common policy. 
The more detailed examination of various facets of road development so far as their effect on road safety is concerned is one of the matters which will be undertaken by the new National Authority on Road Safety and Standards. The Authority's responsibilities will include the formulation, in consultation with State and other Australian authorities, of safety standards in respect of highway engineering and traffic management. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At the time of my statements in Parliament in 1969, it was Labor Party policy for all revenue received from motorists by way of fuel tax to be spent on roads. When this policy was adopted we believed that it was necessary to upgrade our road system to meet the needs of the increasing number of cars coming into the roads. 
Subsequently, however, consideration was again given to Australia's overall transport needs. From this it was concluded that the motor car was creating social, environmental and economic problems and greater emphasis should therefore be given to the development of public transport. It was also concluded that fuel tax should be regarded as a general revenue tax in the same way as the tax levied on cigarettes, etc. Roads compete not only with other modes of transport but also with the other objectives of governnment. A direct linking of petrol tax to road development may result in expenditure on services which the community hay indicated require high priority, being less than it would be. 
It is possible to compare petrol tax collections at any given time to necessary expenditure on roads. However to rigidly link the two would reduce the ability of the Government to attune its policies to match developing circumstances and the changing needs and desires of the Australian people. 
At present the Australian Government is reviewing its policy of assistance for roads. This review will include not only road needs, as disclosed by the roads survey being undertaken by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in co-operation with State road authorities, but also prospective sources of road finance. It will also take account of the limits of construction resources available for roads. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
No. 
Because the Advanced Passenger Train prototype would be subject to considerable test and evaluation in the United Kingdom before the train is put into serial production, a production train could not be available for test in Australia for several years. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Forty free passes are issued each year by Commonwealth Railways to the Federal Secretariat of the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers' Association which allot them to its State Branches for distribution to Association members. 
The number of free passes available each year to members of the Association is currently equivalent to approximately 0.25 per cent of the total membership. 
and (4) Free passes were first made available to the Association in 1948 when the then Minister for the Interior approved the issue of twelve passes each year. The number was equivalent to the number of free passes then made available to the Limbless Soldiers' Association of Australia. 
The number of free passes issued to the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers' Association were since increased in 1956, 1961 and 1964 on the basis of increases in the total membership of the Association. 
I understand that subsequent applications by the Association in 1965, 1966, 1969 and 1970 for increases in the number of free passes were refused by the previous Government. 
The free passes allow members of the Association free first class return travel over Commonwealth Railways between Port Pirie and Kalgoorlie. 
 in reply - Several members asked me to reply to a number of questions and I shall do it as quickly as I can. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  asked me to clarify a number of points. I think the first one he raised was the matter of the agreement and whether we would consult the airlines. I assure him that we will consult the airlines. Already I have asked Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to give me an opinion, which it has done, on whether $62,000 should be spent at Carnarvon airport for the purpose of enlarging the apron. The Department has informed me that it is a safety issue and as far as aircraft are concerned, there is no need for it. In actual fact, what we said in the agreement is already in operation. We are consulting with them and I propose to continue to consult with them. 
I am talking about Western Australia. This was in Carnarvon, Western Australia. 
No. You have asked me whether there was an economic evaluation and the answer is yes but I shall give you a reply on that in a moment. 
Let us be clear on it. So far as ATI is concerned, it would do anything to stop TAA operating in Western Australia. Let us face the facts of life. Allow me to say quickly why TAA should be allowed to operate the intrastate services in Western Australia and between Perth and Darwin and which will show clearly that there is great advantage and value to the people of Western Australia. Some of the extensions and strengthening of aerodrome pavements at the intermediate ports will be necessary if TAA is to use the DC9. The cost of the works is estimated at $1.3m. This represents an annual cost of about $180m allowing for amortisation of the investment over the life of the asset together with recurrent maintenance. DCA revenue will increase by about $50,000 per annum as a result of the operation of the DC9. This will partly offset increased costs. On the other hand, there will be great benefits to the traveller which will amount to about $800,000, representing a fare reduction for economy class passengers who at the present time are travelling under economy class conditions but paying first class fares. 
TAA is proposing that the DCS will have first class and economy class accommodation, which we believe will represent a considerable saving to travellers on that route. It will represent an immediate reduction of 20 per cent in respect of fares for those who wish to travel economy. The DC9 is set up on the basis of approximately one-quarter accommodation for first class and three-quarters for economy class. So it does represent a very substantial and major saving. A further saving is in respect of air freight. What the honourable member said in regard to the F28 is not 100 per cent correct, because the F28 is leaving behind a considerable amount of freight each trip. This was one of the major complaints that was made to me - that whereas the rest of Australia could send freight at the average freight rate, in Western Australia in order to ensure delivery it has to be sent as express freight, which means an increased charge. This is as a result of the F28 not being big enough and not providing a service for the people of Western Australia. The DC9 aircraft will provide them with a service. 
For these few reasons that I have mentioned I believe there is any amount of justification for the cost, which will be roughly $1.3m to upgrade the airports, but the annual saving to the people of Western Australia will be the equivalent of about $800,000. So I believe one has to look at all aspects and not just whether it will mean that Ansett will have to cut down expenditure or services by half. What the former Minister,  Senator Sir William  Spooner, had to say was that TAA could come in provided it did not cost the Government any more. The increased revenue from the use of the DC9 aircraft plus the great saving to the people of Western Australia more than balances out the increased cost. 
To me it appears to be pretty good economics. 
Do not change the subject. We are talking about Western Australia and you are jumping to Queensland. You are flying too fast; I cannot keep up with you. You have asked me for the Government's attitude and I have answered your inquiry. We think that the Western Australian people will obtain a saving of something like $800,000 a year if TAA is to come into operation on the Perth to Darwin service and the intrastate services in Western Australia. 
Questions were asked concerning general aviation revenue. In my second reading speech, I set out the facts fairly clearly. The cost of running the 6 major general aviation airports in Australia - that is one in each of the State capital cities - is $8.25m. I am taking into consideration not the expenditure on the hundreds of small general aviation airports but the expenditure on the 6 major city airports only. The cost of operating those 6 airports is $8.25m annually, yet the total annual revenue from general aviation is only $3.6m. General aviation provides a service for the community as a whole. It is a means of recreation or a hobby for some people. I think that at the same time this factor should be taken into consideration: The Australian taxpayer should not be required in some cases to subsidise heavily the provision of these facilities. 
One can pick on all sorts of things which are subsidised. We view aviation as a whole. Take for example a comparison of the figures showing the numbers of people who use general aviation services. Last year, general aviation services were subsidised by $69m yet only about 160,000 people a week used them. The former Government made no contribution to public transport which is used now by 23 million people each week. We must determine where our priorities will lie. This is what we are trying to do. We think that the airline industry and the general aviation industry should make a greater contribution to their costs. 
I have given an assurance to a number of organisations associated with general aviation that I am prepared to confer with them before the next Budget is introduced to see what economies can be achieved by suggestions which they wish to put forward. In the same way as I have agreed that my Department should confer with the airlines, I am prepared also to confer with recognised organisations in general aviation. In fact, some organisations have put to me a number of suggestions already to which I have been seeking answers by feeding them into the system. We want to see whether economies can be achieved so that we may reduce some of our expenditure on general aviation. I do not want to see these matters blown up unnecessarily. I do not want to see too great an expenditure and, in many cases, unnecessary expenditure. The Government is prepared to act and prepared to confer with the people involved. 
We are conducting economic surveys at present on the Townsville Airport project, Brisbane Airport, the second Sydney Airport and Melbourne.  Major expenditures  are involved in those surveys. In the figures which I quoted to honourable members earlier in my remarks on the upgrading of Western Australian airports to DC9 capacity, I established that there is a clear and good case on reasonable grounds to carry out the improvements that we suggest. The Bureau of Transport Economics has not made an economic evaluation of this proposal, but my Department has made an evaluation which shows that the expenditure and the revenue, spread over the lifetime of the asset, will indeed pay for this upgrading. My friend, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  referred to the possible introduction of a curfew at Perth Airport. From his point of view, the present situation is unfortunate. By reason of the time difference between Western Australian standard time and eastern standard time or eastern daylight saving time international aircraft operate through Perth. I would like to see a curfew introduced at the Perth airport, as would the honourable member for Swan, but I am afraid that at this stage he is the odd man out. The State authorities, city councils and the like in Western Australia, with the exception of the Belmont City Council, do not give him any support. Because of the time lapse between Western Australian standard time and eastern standard time or eastern daylight saving time I am afraid that I cannot help him by instituting a curfew. He raised the question of American Service aircraft using our airports free of charge. A reciprocal agreement exists between countries whereby charges are not imposed on Service aircraft. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised the question of the possibility that the Government may increase general aviation charges by 100 per cent. The answer to that question is no. We will not increase charges for general aviation by 100 per cent. The Government will examine the figures before the next Budget and we will continue to examine them bexfore each Budget. We will continue to confer with the people in the industry to see where economies can be achieved, always subject to the condition that there is no reduction in the degree of safety. We are not prepared to reduce expenditure at the expense of safety. I make that one positive qualification with which, I believe, honourable members on the other side of the House will agree. 
The only point I make in conclusion is that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  once again referred to the problems of people living in the Gulf country. When the honourable member for Maranoa first drew attention to this matter the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and  Senator Keeffe  were also raising it with me; I was being blasted from 3 sides at that time. As my time to speak in this debate has almost expired, 1 seek leave to incorporate in 
Hansard the text of a letter similar to those which I wrote to the 3 honourable gentlemen who raised this matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I refer to your letter of 28 October in which you asked me to outline the situation which exists in relation to the possible reduction of subsidies to some Australian inland air services, particularly those in areas of Queensland, including the Channel and Gulf Country. 
Since taking office this Government has carried out a thorough review of the policies relating to the provision of subsidies for uneconomic air services and has made a number of decisions on the subsidy schemes. With relation to essential rural subsidies, the Government has confirmed the decision of the previous Government to terminate the essential rural schemes as from 30 June, 1974. 
With developmental subsidies, it was decided, in principle, to phase out payments for the operation of this form of uneconomic air service, other than those conducted by Connair Pty Ltd, over a four year period. The Government also decided to take immediate action to reduce its commitment in this area by asking the two major domestic airlines to submit plans for the transfer of their developmental services to light aircraft operators by December 31, 1973, or to the withdrawal of subsidy effective from that date. 
The Australian National Airlines Commission (TAA) has since submitted a comprehensive proposal for the restructuring of the Gulf Channel networks. 
TAA has given careful consideration to the circumstances existing and forecast in relation to these services and in the knowledge that TAA does not own or operate the type of light aircraft that would be required to substantially reduce subsidy requirements, the decision has been taken to terminate all TAA Twin Otter operations in the Channel and Gulf areas wilh effect from Monday, December 31, 1973. 
The accompanying route map (attachment 1) indicates the names and locations of the 37 ports of call embraced by this decision, which will, unless other arrangements are made, be without air services as from December 31, 1973. 
I might say that TAA has genuine concern for the welfare of the people who will be affected by the necessity to withdraw Twin Otter aircraft from the Channel and Gulf areas which currently absorb 3000 hours flying per annum, serve 45 ports of call (37 of which will be eliminated) and costs the Commonwealth in excess of $300,000 per annum in subsidy. 
An alternative route pattern and operational program has therefore been prepared and is- illustrated in attachment 2 which envisages the following arrangement: 
TAA will withdraw all Twin Otter operations from the Channel and Gulf area as previously mentioned. 
A commuter operator will be encouraged to take over the three times weekly Gulf services, the once weekly Gulf station run and the once weekly Channel Route 1 restructured as illustrated (attachment 2) and extending to Windorah where it could connect with the F27 service mentioned below. 
TAA is prepared to upgrade the service to the Central Channel area by operating a once weekly F27 Fokker Friendship Mk II aircraft Brisbane-Alice Springs and return calling at Charleville, Quilpie, Windorah and Birdsville in each direction. This service would place in excess of 40 homesteads and IS previous ports of call within a radius of 100 miles driving distance from an airport serviced by a modern airconditioned aircraft offering hostess, bar and meal services. It would also offer connections at Alice Springs to Adelaide and Darwin and at Brisbane to points north and south and on the east coast. 
A commuter operator would be approached to operate a once weekly service from Broken Hill north to Birdsville landing at 7 station homesteads en route in each direction as required. Connections could be made with the Fokker Friendship at Birdsville both westbound and eastbound if a demand existed. 
It is estimated that these services could be performed at a total annual cost in subsidy to the Commonwealth of $88,000. This figure includes a contingency amount of $15,000 for flood relief operations with light aircraft operating from Charleville, Windorah and Birdsville as may be necessary during periods when the channels are flooded and an amount of $55,000 payable to TAA as a contribution towards the cost of establishing the F27 operation from Brisbane to Alice Springs in the first year only. TAA estimates a probable loss in excess of $100,000 on this service in the first year of operation, but the airline believes it has a potential for development as a unique tourist route and is, therefore, prepared to make this financial contribution in the developmental stage of the service. 
In essence, however, I would like to conclude that these plans for the re-arrangement of the Channel and Gulf Country services are the same  as  plans under final study by the previous Government _ in 1972 but which were shelved due to the approaching elections. 
Yours sincerely, 
K. JONES 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be omitted (Mir  Nixon's  amendment) stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The curfew restriction at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport applies to the operation of jet aircraft between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. The requirement is for aircraft doors to be closed for departure before 11 p.m., although the aircraft in question took off towards Botany Bay at 11.08 p.m., records indicate that the engines were started at 10.57 p.m. Since doors are closed prior to engine start, the aircraft carrying the Prime Minister and his party did not contravene the curfew regulations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, on 21 September 1973. 
The Commonwealth Trading Bank is the approved trustee of the TAA superannuation funds. The loans came from that source. The amount borrowed is $29.4m and the interest rate is 8.5 per cent. 
Yes. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1972  I  present the twenty-eighth annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
Pursuant to clause 11 of the 1972 Airlines Agreement, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has submitted to me financial information in respect of that part of the company and its subsidiaries relating to the operation of air services during the year ended 30 June 1973. This financial information has been compiled from the audited accounts of the company and has been certified as to correctness by 2 directors. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government is fully aware of the need for appropriate standards in regard to vehicles both to ensure their safety and to protect the consumer. 
In order for meaningful consumer information standards to be introduced, a great deal of preliminary investigation is required. Thus for instance, the fuel consumption measured in a test on a vehicle would depend on test conditions such as speed, acceleration and temperature, as well as on the fuel used. Different optional equipment such as an air conditioner or automatic transmission would also change the fuel consumption. 
I have asked my Department to investigate the formulation of a suitable fuel consumption standard. The voluntary fuel economy labelling program, which has recently been introduced for 1974 model vehicles in the United States will form part of this investigation. 
When the National Authority on Road Safety and standards is established by the Australian Government next year, it will have the resources to undertake more comprehensive programs on consumer protection and information standards in relation to motor vehicles. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, it is true that brake and clutch repair companies run their own training programs for employees who are not qualified as mechanics or fitters. At this time I am not, however, in a position to say whether the training provided by brake and clutch repair companies is adequate for the tasks being performed by these employees. 
Yes. I have asked my Department to investigate the matter. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
To the best of my knowledge no other States have instituted such a service or have decided to do so. The honourable member will, however, be aware that in Canberra a similar service is provided around the city centre. Also, it is planned to introduce a free bus service between Canberra City and the Woden Valley for a trial period in 1974 in order to evaluate public reaction. 
I strongly support the introduction of such services, at least on a trial basis, and I have constantly advocated new initiatives in the field of urban transport. Should any States wish to conduct studies related to the introduction of such services I would be prepared to consider these projects for the purposes of support by the Australian Government under the research and development grants allocated as part of the urban public transport improvement program. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The studies, additional to those listed in my answer to question No. 1110 (Hansard 7 November 1973, page 2971), which the Bureau of Transport Economics is presently engaged in, categorised by type of report, are: 
Studies for which reports are expected to be published. 
The answer to the honourable member's question has been obtained from the road authorities in Western and South Australia, as the bodies responsible for construction of the Eyre Highway; and is as follows: 
Of the total 451 miles sealed in Western Australia between 1959 and 1969, the last 200 were completed between 1966 and 1969. 
Contracts arranged by South Australia require that the 232 miles between Bookabi and the Western Australia border be completed by 1975. This assumes a similar construction rate to that achieved in Western Australia. 
The total expenditure by Western Australia on the Eyre Highway was $9.5m for the period 1959-60 to 1969-70. Figures for the expenditure per mile on the last 200 miles sealed are not available. 
The Australian Government did not make a direct grant to Western Australia to seal this highway. However, the State received annual grants under the 1964-69 Commonwealth Aid Roads legislation, and there is no doubt that part of these funds would have been directed to this work. The precise amounts are not available from existing records in Western Australia. 
Estimated cost for the 232 miles between Bookabi and the Western Australian border is $42,700 per mile. 
The Australian Government in 1972 made a special grant of $2.5 million for the 303 mile section between Penong and the border. In addition, funds available to South Australia under the current Commonwealth Aid Roads Act could also be used on this work, if the State wished to do so. Figures relating only to the last 232 miles are not available. 
 The answer tothe honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked my Department to investigate the use of secondhand parts in smash repairs. 
and (3) Action will depend upon the results of the investigation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I undestand that a deputation led by the Secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering Union met with the Western Australian Minister for Traffic Safety,  Mr C.  J. Jamieson, to discuss this matter. 
and (4) I have asked my Department to obtain further information on the licensing and registration of mechanics. Action will depend on the results of the investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked my Department to investigate the licensing and examination of accident surveyors employed to assess vehicle smash repairs. 
Action will depend upon the results of the investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am aware that such allegations were reported in the Western Australian Sunday Independent of 18 November 1973. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council through the implementation of its Australian Design Rules, is requiring all new vehicles to progressively meet new design rules. The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design has already been asked to examine the need for and form of a design rule lor fuel systems for passenger cars. In addition the Committee is examining the flammability of interior materials used in motor cars. 
It is considered this approach is more effective than the compulsory carrying of fire extinguishers by all vehicles particularly since a New South Wales study carried out by the Traffic Accident Research Unit has shown that fire was involved in less than 2 per cent of fatal road accidents. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Discussions concerning the relocation of Commonwealth Railways facilities at Alice Springs were held in Alice Springs on Tuesday, 13 November 1973. 
Officers of Commonwealth Railways took part in these discussions which concerned future railway development at Alice Springs and which centred on the relative merits of three alternative sites for the relocation of Commonwealth Railways facilities. No decision on these sites was made at the meeting pending further study and discussion of the alternatives. 
Restrictions on Travel to Southern Rhodesia and Taiwan  (Question No. 1505) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1),  (2) and (3) In pursuance of undertakings given prior to the election, a list of the reports prepared by or for the Bureau of Roads in recent years has been provided to the Prime Minister with a view of his considering their release. If the honourable member wishes particularly to nominate a specific report for release I should be glad to give his request my early attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question does not indicate with what the freight rates for municipal type vehicles are to be compared but if the comparison is with ordinary motor vehicles, the answer is that municipal type vehicles do generally command a higher rate of freight. 
(2) 
The reason for higher freight rates for vehicles and machinery as used in municipal type works is that they arc generally more difficult to accommodate and stow aboard ships than ordinary, motor vehicles, and they also incur heavy lift charges in cargo handling. 
Freight rates for imported cargoes are established overseas. The role of the Australian Government is limited under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act to outwards cargo shipping from Australia. 
 I present for the information of honourable members a report entitled Report on Roads in Australia  -  1973' prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in compliance with section 14 (a) of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The difference is close to 100 per cent. 
(2) 
The reason for the difference in freight rates is that the vehicle parts for use in manufacture are imported in substantial quantities on a per annum basis as compared with spare parts used for repair. A lower rate for volume shipments of motor vehicle components is there possible. 
The freight rates are negotiated overseas. The role of the Australian Government is limited under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act to outwards cargo shipping from Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australians who served with the United Stales Navy in the New Guinea war zone during World War II are not eligible for benefits under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act, which was never intended to apply to persons serving in the naval forces of Australia or any other country. Some Australians served with the United States Army Service of Supply, South West Pacific Area, but services in such ships also was never intended to attract the benefits of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. It is not known whether any Australian who served in the United States Navy or the 
United States Army Services of Supply received any compensation for war wounds or effects from the United States Government. 
It is not proposed to change such a basic aspect of the legislation after it has been applied for over 30 years. However, should there be any cases in which Australian merchant seamen suffered war injuries in the course of service with the United Slates Army Services of Supply, South West Area, for which they have been unable to get any form of compensation, I would be pleased to have them examined. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Of the total of 164 donkeys despatched from Derby, 21 apparently died on the road journey to Alice Springs, 6 died in the cattle yards at Alice Springs prior to their consignment to Commonwealth Railways and 12 died on the rail journey to Marree. 
I understand from advice received from Commonwealth Railways that the 143 donkeys received in Alice Springs were inspected by the local stock inspector of the Department of Primary Industry and that they were found to be in generally weak condition showing signs of distress after the long road journey. The donkeys included a number of mares in foal and a number with head injuries due to the restricted headroom in the lower decks of the road transport unit. Press reports have indicated that the animals were weakened when their road train was bogged for two days on the journey from Derby to Alice Springs. 
The donkeys were rested at Alice Springs and were inspected by the local stock inspector and a representative of the RSPCA who considered them fit for travel prior to their consignment over Commonwealth Railways. 
The responsibility for ensuring that the livestock offered for carriage over Commonwealth Railways is in a fit condition to travel rests wilh the consignor. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council of which I am  Chairman  has looked at suggestions made from time to time to issue driver's and rider's licences relating to the power of the car or motor cycle to be driven. In so far as motor cyclists are concerned, Council is awaiting the results of a study commissioned by my Department of the relationship between motorcycle power, rider experience and accident involvement. It is expected that the results of the report will be considered by Council at its next meeting. 
The merit of special licences for car drivers needs to be examined in-depth, to assess its possible contribution to greater safety. Research is currently being planned by the Department of Transport which will enable a proper assessment of the need for such a measure. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have said to a number of people, and I think this might include  Mr Wade,  M.L.A. for Newcastle, that no site has yet been selected for Omega, but if Government decides to go ahead with establishing the Australian station, Deniliquin is not a likely site - notwithstanding what has been printed from time to time in newspapers. 
However, before a specific site area can be selected or even finally eliminated, the engineering studies, which were deferred pending the inquiry by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, would need to be reactivated and taken to a more advanced stage of investigation. Until this happens, I would prefer that siting options not be closed off irrevocably. 
If the project should proceed, I can assure the honourable member that the final site selection will be based strictly on the appropriate technical, practical and economic criteria. 
My Department has indicated in a submission (dated 25 June, 1973), to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Inquiry into Omega, that the preferred general location for the Australian station would be Tasmania, with the Central Murray River District as second preference. 
This latter area is defined broadly as the area centred on the section of the Murray River between Swan Hill and Echuca, extending southward to Boort in Victoria and northward to Moulamein and Deniliquin in N.S.W. The above references are based upon technical considerations and represent the stage reached in siting investigations prior to the inquiry by the Parliamentary Committee. 
Is it true that the airlines have at different times asked me to relax the conditions on the curfew. For example, during the recent stoppage involving Trans-Australia Airlines I was approached by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to lift the curfew and to permit planes to operate after 11 p.m. This was rejected in conformity with Government policy. So far as wide bodied jets are concerned, during my recent visit to France I inspected a French airbus and in June when I was in the United States of America I looked at 3 airbuses or jumbos which are produced in that country. It is obvious to me that now is the time to introduce this type of aircraft into Australia, rather than allow each of the airlines to purchase 4 727-200 series jets. We must bear in mind that aircraft purchased now will be operating well into the 1980s at which time there will be a serious over-capacity of aircraft operating through Sydney. I believe it is logical that wide bodied jets should be introduced. 
I will be writing to the airlines to ask them to reconsider their proposal to purchase 727s. I will ask them also to consider the practicability of ordering one of the 4 jumbos that are available for sale. One of the interesting features is that jumbos are much quieter than the normal run of aircraft. I should add that what was reported in the Australia' during the week that I was looking to lift the curfew is not true. I can give the honourable member and the public an assurance that the Government has no plans to lift the curfew at peak periods or offpeak periods. In anticipation of someone asking me a question on the difference between noise levels of various aircraft I sought information on that subject. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he might permit me to incorparate in Hansard a table setting out the noise levels of each of the modern type of aircraft. I am sure that this would be of interest to all honourable members. 
I will try to be very cautious. In my opinion, the newspaper reports were completely misleading and not factual. I say that for the simple reason that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd conducts intrastate operations in Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales while Trans-Australian Airlines does not operate intrastate in those States. Last year Ansett had an increase in revenue which was about $24m more than was gained by TAA. Notwithstanding that substantial increase in revenue, Ansett made a profit which was only SI 00,000 more than that earned by TAA, and this happened despite quite a difference in their bookkeeping systems. For example, TAA deducted $ 16.5m for depreciation on a fleet of aircraft which is smaller than Ansett's, while ATI deducted $15m for depreciation. TAA set aside $5m as an allowance for taxation, while Ansett set aside only $3. 5m for taxation. After all of these matters were taken into account, TAA made a profit, in round figures, of $2m and ATI made a profit of $3.5m. When one looks at all these facts and figures, it is very clear that TAA is a much more efficient and better operator than the private airline, and I am satisfied with the results. 
I first of all acknowledge that the figures quoted by the honourable member for Macquarie are correct, as all honourable members know. I emphasise that the Government as yet has not made a decision on this matter. As he mentioned, it is a voluminous report and we have to give it a lot of consideration. I made it available to honourable members as soon as I received it so it will be subjected to considerable investigation and discussion. One of the points that I propose putting to Cabinet will be on the basis that no longer will we allow the States to determine where Australian Government money is to be spent. Have a look at the Australian national highways system connecting the capital cities and beyond in Queensland, for example. The roads are in a deplorable condition. On the Hume Highway hundreds of lives are lost unnecessarily each year because of its condition. The various motoring organisations have been critical of the States' actions in not developing these roads. We propose to establish a program of our own wherein we will decide what roads, for example, are to be developed and extended to divided carriageway roads. The same may be said with respect to our national capital. One does not need to look for a sign proclaiming the border between New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. One need look only at the condition of the road; that will tell one where the border is. The honourable member for EdenMonaro and also the honourable member for Hume have complained on a number of occasions about the condition of the road. These are matters with which we propose to deal. 
With respect to urban arterial roads, where State governments have been pursuing a policy of building freeways, we do not propose to go along with indiscriminate construction of freeways. If the construction of such freeways is necessary, yes, we will contribute to the cost. But where we consider that freeways create environmental problems we certainly will not contribute to their construction. The same policy will prevail with respect to rural arterial roads. The Government, I hope, will be pursuing a policy of deciding what roads are essential and what roads require our assistance so as to ensure the development of roads between important centres of population. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim report on Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport by the Australian and New South Wales Governments' joint committee planning Sydney airports. I bring to honourable members' attention that there is a 2-volume report to the joint committee on the first stage of the environmental study group's examination of environmental factors at sites under investigation by the Committee, entitled 'Report on the Environmental Impact Study Stage 1 Alternative Airport Sites for Sydney'. As the report consists of a summary report volume and a second volume of opinion statements by specialists containing 17 separately bound parts, I am arranging for a copy to be placed in the Parliamentary Library for use by honourable members. I also am arranging for the placement of 2 other reports in the Parliamentary Library. These are the summary report on off-shore airport concept and inland airport concept for Sydney and the report on the engineering feasibility of an off-shore airport in the Sydney region. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During May of this year the question of imposing a curfew at Perth was considered in detail. Having explored each side of the question I found that the introduction of a night curfew at Perth would result in serious disadvantages to those people in the community who, either directly or indirectly, obtain benefits from the many domestic and international air services that operate at the present time. 
I cannot put a precise figure on the proportion of the community that would be disadvantaged. However, I believe that it is a significant proportion. 1 am aware that there is a strong body of opinion in Perth that a curfew should not be imposed. 
May I continue by indicating some of the disadvantages that would flow from a curfew on domestic flights. 
There would be delays in the delivery of mail and urgent freight, because scheduled times on which these articles could be consigned would be compressed into a shorter time period. This is particularly relevant on long haul routes that do not have a very high frequency of flights. Perth is on such a route. 
A curfew would make it difficult for the airlines to continue to offer the existing level of discount fares. These lower fares are possible because aircraft are utilised as much as possible throughout the 24 hour day. The lower fares have a popular appeal. The problem for the airlines is indeed greater than merely losing the utilisation of their existing fleets. They would be faced with the need to purchase additional aircraft, in order to maintain present frequencies to Perth, if flights to that city were to become more concentrated as to the time of the day. The end result would be increased costs to the airlines which would have to be passed on to the air travellers, freight forwarders, and so on throughout the community. 
As you know the domestic airlines have scheduled their Perth flights with the view to keeping noise nuisance as low as possible. 
I might add that, at the present time, the difference in the daylight saving situation between East and West Australia has resulted in westbound flights arriving earlier in Perth thereby being more acceptable from a noise point of view. 
With particular reference to international flights through Perth, I should like to say that on present schedules, the majority of arrivals and departures of international aircraft take place between the hours of midnight and 3 a.m. The introduction of a curfew at Perth Airport could have a serious impact on international airline scheduling as some operators might be obliged for operational reasons to overfly or by-pass Perth, with consequent effects on tourism and trade in Western Australia. In the main, international operations to Perth are conducted over longhaul sectors of world-wide routes which involve the meeting of curfews and other restrictions at other international airports en route. The keen competition between international airlines demands that aircraft leave European capitals at convenient hours for travellers. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I do not accept that there is an inability of existing services to service this route. As reference to the current published timetables of Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines will show, the airlines provide frequent and convenient services between Canberra and Perth via both Sydney and Melbourne. Between Canberra and Perth, travellers have the choice of 69 combinations of connecting flights a week, 35 via Melbourne and 34 via Sydney. Between 55 combinations of connecting flights a week, 35 via Melbourne and 20 via Sydney. The fare is the same for travel between Canberra and Perth via Sydney or Melbourne unless a stopover is made in Sydney. 
These services provide some 5,000 seats a week between Canberra and Perth, and some 4,200 seats a week between Perth and Canberra. The number of passengers actually carried between these centres is, of course, considerably less. In 1972-73, TAA, for example, carried 3,150 passengers between Perth and Canberra, and 3,049 in the reverse direction. A similar number would have been carried by Ansett Airlines of Australia, so that, in total, about 12,400 passengers would have been carried in both directions during the year. 
This is some 34 passengers a day, or little more than 17 a day in each direction. Certainly, this number is insufficient to sustain a direct service between the two points and, having regard to the number of connecting services provided, does not suggest that the airlines are failing to service the route adequately. 
In addition to the services shown in their published timetables, the airlines do, of course, provide additional services as traffic demands. 
Air Services Between Western Australia and the Eastern States  (Question No.  1239) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present pattern of air services between Western Australia and the Eastern States is as follows: 
Eastbound 
Forty-four flights a week leaving Perth between the hours of 11.30 a.m. and 12.25 p.m., and 10.45 p.m. and 1.00 a.m. 
Westbound 
Forty-four flights a week leaving Melbourne between the hours of 9.15 a.m. and 11.00 a.m., and 7.40 p.m. and 8.45 p.m. 
These services have been arranged to cater for the requirements of travellers, most of whom commence their journeys in the Eastern States and later return. A comparatively small proportion of the total traffic originates in Western Australia. For example, in the last 3 years, less than 39 per cent of the passengers carried on these services by Ansett Airlines of Australia originated their journeys in Perth. 
The airlines have also arranged their services in this way in order to offer convenient connections with their other services and those of the international airlines. 
Only 6 of the 44 eastbound flights a week, the two services to Adelaide leaving Perth at 1.00 a.m. on both Mondays and Fridays, and the services to Sydney, leaving Perth at 11.10 p.m. and 11.15 p.m. on Fridays, could be said to be scheduled at times arranged to enable them to conform with jet curfew requirements. These flights arrive at Adelaide and Sydney respectively shortly after the lifting of the curfew on jet aircraft at 6.00 a.m. 
I take it from your Question that you are seeking to establish whether the airlines are arranging their services to Perth at times when theiraircraft cannot otherwise be employed elsewhere because of jet curfew restrictions, which apply at Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m., or for other reasons. The services which might be thought of as being so arranged are those which leave Perth for Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne in the late evening or very early morning, between the hours of 10.45 p.m. and 1 a.m. They number 20 a week, and thus represent 22.7 per cent of the 88 services operated by both airlines each week between Perth and the Eastern States. 
I am not aware of any public demand for the airlines to vary the present pattern of services between Western Australia and the Eastern States, nor am I aware of any resistance on the part of the airlines to adjusting their services to accord with the wishes of the travelling public. On the contrary, I understand that all flights, with the possible exceptionof the very late evening and early morning flights from Perth are extremely popular and well patronised. The late evening and early morning flights are only slightly less so. Late evening flights from Perth to the Eastern States have, of course, been in effect without interruption, and accepted by air travellers, for more than 26 years. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is likely that pasengers arriving at Tullamarine Airport on BOAC Flight 812A on 5 September may have taken up to two hours to complete customs and immigration formalities. 
The reasons for the delay for these passengers are as follows: 
The disrupted arrival pattern of aircraft during the morning of 5 September. The scheduled times and actual times of arrival of contributing aircraft are as follows: 
The date of arrival was during the period when extra vigilance was being observed in connection with terrorist activities. Processing times were slightly slower for this reason. 
Customs staff had been rostered to meet the requirements according to scheduled arrival times. If all aircraft had arrived as scheduled, passengers ex BA 812A would not have experienced the delay created by the bank-up of passengers disembarking from the other aircraft. 
No, but it is proposed that various means of passenger separation be given a trial in the near future. 
A 65 year old passenger,  Mrs E.  Knapper collapsed and died while waiting for customs clearance. 

When she collapsed at 0740, she was immediately attended by a nursing sister who was nearby and shortly afterwards by a departmental Traffic Officer with first aid training. Soon afterwards, a public address call was made for any available doctors but no response was received. 
It was shortly apparent that  Mrs Knapper  was, in fact, dead. She was covered with a blanket and screened off from the remainder of the Customs Hall, and was removed by ambulance, with Commonwealth Police escort, to the Royal Melbourne Hospital at 0820. Postmortem examination revealed that  Mrs Knapper  had extensive cardiac disease and it is probable that she died immediately at the time of collapse. 
Ships on the Australian Coast: Single Voyage Permits  (Question No. 1259) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The required information is set out in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I understand consideration may be given to the A.300B airbus touring Australia to demonstrate its capabilities but ,  this is a matter for the manufacturer to assess in relation to potential aircraft sales and it would not be appropriate for me to promote such a tour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Transport is engaged in a review of the Air Traffic Control and Fire Service functions at Mangalore aerodrome for the reason that its use as an alternate for Melbourne Airport can no longer be sustained and its use as a training aerodrome has declined at the present time. No immediate action is being taken to close the aerodrome. This aspect will be considered towards the middle of 1974. 
The Air Traffic Control and Fire Service personnel will be transferred to Melbourne within their respective services in the Department. No other staff changes are contemplated prior to June 1974. 
No. Answer (2) above refers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Action is already in hand by Ansett Airlines in association with TAA and Qantas to install a Visual Flight Information Display System at Perth Airport. (Closed Circuit T.V.) 
The proposed installation has been approved in principle by this Department and we are at this time awaiting (final) details from Ansett before giving our final approval for the installation. 
Companies in Australia Holding Airline and Charter Licences  (Question No. 1332) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The companies in Australia holding airline licences are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(2) 
Departments of Secondary Industry, Transport, the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Overseas Trade, Defence and the Treasury. 
The Committee was asked to review the level and modes of assistance accorded the Australian shipbuilding industry with a view to providing assistance which would assure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. 
It was also asked to give special attention to the question of subsidy assistance for the modification of vessels to be used as drilling rigs. 
Yes. 
The Committee's report is to be considered by the Government shortly, and an announcement will then be made. 
No. The order position for the industry, as shown in the table below, is considerably better than it was on 2 December 1972 and indicates there is little reason for concern about the immediate future of the yards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no proposed change in maintenance procedures which are the subject of technical instructions primarily to ensure air safety in the most economical and practical way. Those maintenance procedures apply to Australian Government aerodromes and to licensed aerodromes whether under the control of local government authorities, private individuals or commercial organisations. 
What is proposed throughout Australia is the progressive transfer of most of the remaining Australian Government aerodromes to local government authorities. There are 90 Government and 12 military/civil joint user aerodromes in Australia as compared with 190 aerodromes licensed to local governments and 192 aerodromes licensed to private individuals and organisations. 
The comparable figures in Western Australia are 24 Australian plus one military/civil joint user aerodrome (Learmonth),15 local government and 26 private. 
We expect this change to occur in natural reaction to the Government's 80 per cent Civil Aviation Cost Recovery Programme which was announced at the time of presenting the 1973 Budget. 
It can be shown that local governments in looking after the basic aerodromes - runways, taxiways, apron, terminal, car park and roads - from within their normal council workforces, can do so much more cheaply than when the aerodromes remain under departmental control. This is primarily because it is necessary for departmental aerodrome staff to be provided throughout the year to look after emergencies additional to normal day to day maintenance; as against this, the larger council workforces can be deployed on the aerodromes or on some other council project as the current circumstances demand. 
Another point in favour of local ownership is that since development costs are shared by the local government and the Australian Government, it is possible for the Australian Government to more readily economically justify its half of the investment within its total financial commitments. This also means that when an aerodrome is under the control of the local government it is in effect under the control of the local community and the local community may therefore develop its aviation facilities as and when it thinks fit; it has the major say in the priority which is given to these developments. 
Finally is the point of possible aerodrome closures. For some years now the number of aerodromes in Australia has remained fairly stable, a limited number of new aerodromes are being created and an approximately equal number of aerodromes are being abandoned. In considering whether or not an aerodrome is acceptable to the local council, within the local aerodrome scheme, the best possible check is made on whether or not that aerodrome is justified today; no aerodrome is abandoned for which the local community feels there is a real need. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The measurement of vehicle handling characteristics and the setting of standards is currently receiving a great deal of attention throughout the world. However, to date very little agreement has been reached on the relevant parameters, test methods and desirable levels. 
The claim mentioned refers to a particular motoring writer's subjective opinion and it is relevant to note that other motoring writers have expressed contrary opinions. The newsletter of the Car Consumers' Association also reports that GM-H refute the claim. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council is aware of the desirability of setting standards for performance of new vehicles and is currently studying the matter of laying down requirements for speed, braking, tyres and other safety related features. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The composition of the working party was determined on 15 December 1972 and it first met on 13 March 1973. 
The working party's terms of reference are concerned only with employees of the Department of Civil Aviation. The conclusions of the working party will be in the form of an Administrative Order and Instruction of the Department of Civil Aviation. These documents are widely distributed within the Department and are accessible to all departmental employees. The content of this particular Order would be available to any other interested party. 
The Administrative Order and Instruction is not yet complete, but it expected to be issued during February, 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 8 November (Hansard, page 3086) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 8 November (Hansard, page 3086) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The inquiry undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics was an attempt to assess Tasmanian interstate transport problems as recommended by the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. It was undertaken in recognition of the reliance by Tasmania on its shipping links and the lack of alternative modes of interstate transport which are available to other States. 
Darwin and the Northern Territory do not suffer from these peculiar difficulties in that the area is served by sea from both Eastern and Western Australia and in addition by rail and road from South Australia and Queensland. 
As I indicated in my reply of 12 November 1973 (Hansard, page 3098) to the question on Tasmanian shipping freights, the freight rate differential and disadvantages apparently suffered by Tasmania in regard to freight rates has been referred to the Special Minister for State for an appropriate inquiry. Until the results of this inquiry are known the Government is unable to determine whether Tasmania requires assistance to offset any freight disadvantage. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is an interdepartmental committee considering the question of the siting of Sydney's second airport. 
Other similar committees are investigating airport requirements at Adelaide, Darwin and Western Australia. A committee also investigated Brisbane's requirements. It completed its work in January 1972. 
The names of the interdepartmental committees are: 
Australian/New South Wales Governments Joint Committee Planning Sydney Airports. 
Australian/State Advisory Committee to study Adelaide's regular public transport (airline) airport requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As from 1 November 1973 responsibility for the operation of internal air services in PapuaNew Guinea was assumed by Niugini, the national airline of Papua New Guinea. Neither TAA nor ATI now operate any air services in Papua New Guinea in their own right. 
TAA pilots seconded to Air Niugini were not involved in the week long pilot dispute which disrupted TAA's mainland services and which was settled on 30 November, 1973. 
Accordingly, there was no interruption to the movement of passengers and goods on air routes in Papua New Guinea. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The appointment of an inter-departmental committee to review the Australian shipbuilding industry was announced by my colleague the then Minister for Secondary Industry (Dr J. F. Cairns) and myself in our joint press statement of 8 March 1973. In reply to the right honourable gentleman's specific queries: &lt;a) The Departments represented on the committee are those of Secondary Industry, Transport, the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Overseas Trade, Defence and the Treasury. 
It was required to present its report as soon as possible. The report is presently under consideration by the Government and an announcement will shortly be made. 
The Committee was asked to review the level and modes of assistance accorded the Australian shipbuilding industry with a view to providing assistance which would ensure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. 
It was also asked to give special attention to the question of subsidy assistance for the modification of vessels to be used as drilling rigs. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only State Authority to have requested the imposition of curfew restrictions at Perth Airport is the Belmont Shire Council which has suggested the move on five occasions since September 1970. The actual dates of the approaches made by this Council are 11 September 1970, 11 December 1970, 27 August 1971, 13 April 1972 and 5 April 1973. 
Requests for the imposition of curfew restrictions have been submitted by private persons on four occasions namely, 2 May 1970, 23 Feburary 1972, 19 April 1973 and 28 November 1973. 
In addition to the approaches mentioned above, questions were asked in the House on the same matter on 24 September 1968  (Mr Cleaver)  and 3 September 1970  (Mr Bennett). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The concern is not well founded because the Government does not propose to change in any way the present high standards of aviation safety which are prescribed in the Air Navigation Act and Regulations and Operational procedures which at present apply. The Government's decision to amalgamate the two Departments arose out of its wish to achieve greater co-ordination of transport policies and harmony between these policies and the Government's other social and economic objectives. 
The honourable member may be assured than the Government is very conscious of the need to maintain the existing high standards of operational efficiency and safety in Australian aviation and that the amalgamation of the two Departments will not lower in any way the present high standards of air safety. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have seen the extract referred to by the Honourable Member and do not feel that it provides a fair account of the operations of Qantas in Fiji. 
An examination of the total services between Australia and Fiji by all carriers indicates that Qantas has a minimum of flights arriving and departing Nadi at times which some people might consider unreasonable. Qantas provides five B707 daylight flights per week between Australia and Fiji which cater mainly for tourist traffic and Fijian travellers. Four B747s per week depart Australia for Fiji in the evening and whilst these are long haul services transitting Fiji they do cater for businessmen who wish to spend a full working day in Australia prior to departure. 
Qantas maintains at Nadi a modern fully equipped flight kitchen where thirty-seven of the thirty-nine staff employed are Fiji nationals. In the financial year ended March 1973 fifty-four per cent of the food processed by the Nadi flight kitchen was purchased locally. 
Qantas has made a boarding music tape which includes selections of South Pacific music including the traditional Fijian farewell song Isa Lei played by Fijian musicians. 
Qantas inflight cabin staff are almost exclusively Australian citizens and although it is true that Fijians are not employed in this category, neither are Indonesians, Hawaiians, etc. Qantas is Australia's international flag carrier and it is appropriate that the cabin staff should reflect this role. 
Qantas has not been involved in a large number of industrial disputes in Fiji but those that have occurred have attracted a great deal of attention, owing to the critical impact of Qantas' operations on the Fiji economy. These operations are not only to service Qantas flights but Qantas also provides food and ground handling for most interntional carriers serving Nadi. 
As Qantas is a prominent foreign company operating in an important industry (i.e. tourism), the union representing most of the employees has tended to endeavour to force Qantas into the position of pacesetter in wages and terms and conditions of employment in Fiji. 
Qantas has in fact been a good employer, its rates being traditionally somewhat higher than rates for similar work in other industries in Fiji. In its dealings with the unions, however, Qantas has to pay regard to the anti-inflationary policies of the Fiji Government, which take account of the need for local wages and conditions to be set at levels that can be sustained by the Fiji economy. Accordingly, in the settlement of industrial disputes Qantas has been concerned to comply with proper industrial procedures according to Fiji law. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is understood that approximately 1 per cent of track in the United States is in concrete sleepers. However, the American Railway Engineering Association has established a special committee to examine all aspects of concrete sleeper design, manufacture and use. 
Such assertions have been made by timber interests, but the official views of authoritative U.S. railway institutions are not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The findings were that any costs incurred in these operations would be identical to those involved in replacing existing timber sleepers with timber sleepers of a different size. Therefore, these costs were not specifically brought out in the comparative study performed by the BTE. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Concrete sleepers have been used in West Germany for many years. 
The frequent changes in designs and specfications for concrete sleepers in West Germany are a reflection of a changing technology. 
Yes. 
The official attitude of West German railway authorities to this question is not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This would be the case in some instances. 
It is extremely unlikely that a proportion as high as 70 per cent would have a useful remaining life if an optimum resleepering program is implemented. 
The program envisaged for resleepering the Trans-Australian Railway involves procurement of maintenance sleepers in the early stages, but this procurement will be phased out. All sleepers with useful remaining lives will be used, either as replacements during the resleepering program, or on sidings or other lines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have already announced that tenders will be called for both concrete and timber sleepers for the remaining sections of the Trans Australian Railway and also for new line construction such as the proposed lines between Tarcoola and Alice Springs and Adelaide and Crystal Brook. I would expect that this will prevent either concrete or timber sleeper producers from cornering the market. 
The approved contract price of $8.19 per concrete sleeper submitted by Monier Prestressed Concrete is subject to variation to account for rises or falls in the cost of labour and materials from the date of the tender. The formula for adjusting the tender price was determined and agreed to prior to my approval to let the contract. This procedure is normal where the time for delivery extends over long periods, in this case 100 weeks. The sleeper prices tendered by the timber sleeper producers were also subject to variation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The maintenance cycles were adopted as a result of extensive research on the matter, and represented the best available knowledge. It is not considered that significant knowledge has been added since the evaluation was performed. 
No. 
Bureau on Transport Economics: Railway Sleepers  (Question No. 1600) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Bureau of Transport Economics has examined the points, and has) concluded that they do not alter the basis of the evaluation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This Conference was attended by several Officers of the Department of Transport including officers from the Bureau of Transport Economics. It was considered that no factual information was presented which would give cause to revise the evaluation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have already announced that tenders for both timber and concrete sleepers will be called for future sleeper requirements for the remaining sections of the Trans Australian Railway and also for new line construction such as the proposed lines between Tarcoola and Alice Springs and Adelaide and Crystal Brook. These tenders will be evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau's reports containing these evaluations will be published. 
Yes. 
It was assessed that the effects on the environment of using either type of sleeper would be approximately the same. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The assumed life of 50 years was based on oversea experience. In fact, further evidence suggests that it might be a conservative figure. 
This assumption was largely based on British experience in a variety of loading and speed situations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I know of no broad gauge (5 feet 3 inches) railway lines in Western Australia. I assume the honourable member is referring to the conversion to standard gauge of 4 feet 8i inches. 
Commonwealth Railways specified the costlier and heavier 230 x 150mm (9 inches x 6 inches) and 250 x 130mm (10 inches x 5 inches) cross section timber sleepers because they were the minimum size required for use on lines with long or continuously welded rail. 
The experience of Commonwealth Railways and the New South Wales Government Railways, as well as the experience of overseas countries, has shown that tracks with continuously welded rail with light sleepers become unstable during periods of hot weather. This instability increases the danger of derailments and is the reason why speed restrictions are in force on the Trans-Australian and Central Australian Railways during the summer months. 
The Commissioner considered and I agree that the track structure required for present needs should be capable of carrying existing traffic at normal speeds at all times and be capable of ready modification to take heavier wagons at higher speeds. To achieve this the Commissioner advised that more weight was required in the track and that the most economical method to obtain the additional weight is to use a heavier sleeper. 
The Commissioner's recommendation in 1963 that the Commonwealth should not pay the additional cost of using 225 x 130mm (9 inches x 5 inches) instead of 225 x 115mm (9 inches x 44 inches) section timber sleepers on the standardisation project through the Avon Valley has little relevance now. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A draft report on this subject has now been prepared, and is being revised. 
Brisbane was chosen for this survey because it is in advanced stages of planning for suburban railway electrification, which will result in substantial rolling stock procurements. In addition, the rolling stock situation has been static in Brisbane for almost ten years. These factors influenced the choice of a city for the first survey of this type, in regard to both the usefulness of results and the likelyresponse to the survey. 
The pressure of work in the Bureau of Transport Economics is such that it is unlikely that further surveys of this type will bepeformed in the near future. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Predictions of the impact of aircraft noise on the community living around airports are made in the form of a noise exposure forecast. These forecasts assist authorities in the future planning of land use in these areas. 
The information which has been collated for the honourable member is too complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are still some issues which have been suggested by South Australia for inclusion in the Agreement under discussion. 
No. 
and (5) The figures the Honourable Member has quoted are allocations for capital expenditure on the Central Australian Railway not for maintenance. In fact, maintenance expenditure on the narrow gauge section was $ 1.234m in 1972/73 and the provision for 1973/74 is $1.303m. It will therefore be seen that there has been no reduction in maintenance effort on the Central Australian Railway. 
The Marree to Alice Springs section of the Central Australian Railway is being maintained to high safety standards. 
See 4 and 5 above. 
I have been pressing for an early signing of the agreement between the Australian and South Australian Governments since the Government came into office last December and I will continue to do so. 
, (10) and (11) There is no doubt that the operating expenses on a new standard gauge line to Alice Springs will be much lower than those applying on the present line. This is one of the reasons that the Australian Government has been pressing the South Australian Government to agree to its construction. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics study is aimed at identifying areas poorly served by public transport facilities in relation to their demographic  pattern and social characteristics. The study is  examining the feasibilityofdeveloping indicators of urban public transport needs and levels of service. 
The purpose of the study is to determine a methodology for evaluation of social factors in regard to proposed urban transport improvement programs. It is expected that the methodology will be continually refined and used by the Bureau as appropriate. It is not the type of information which would form the basis for a report of the type normally published by the Bureau. 
and (4) Legislation covering this matter has not yet been introduced. Detailed consideration of particular projects will not be undertaken until legislation has been passed. 
It is hoped to introduce legislation covering this matter early in the autumn session. I shall be issuing a Press statement detailing projects approved at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have previously announced that the Australian Government has allocated $32.09m for upgrading public transport in capital cities and that it is prepared to examine the needs of the major provincial centres with populations over 100,000 and to consider improvements in the corridors linking these centres with capital cities. 
The Government has given priority to negotiating an Urban Public Transport Agreement with the States and I expect that legislation giving Australian Government approval to the Agreement will be introduced to Parliament in the next session. 
The Australian Government is also currently discussing with 3 States the proposed transfer of their railway systems to Australian Government control and hopes to soon begin discussions with a fourth State. 
Naturally the Australian Government would be responsible for the operating costs of any railway transferred to its control. However, the Government's present policy is to concentrate available resources on the task of improving the public transport services available to travellers. I consider the first priority is for faster, more comfortable and more frequent services. 
Consideration will be given to the matter of free off-peak travel when this need has been met. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) Negotiations between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government to secure an agreement to the construction of a new standard gauge line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs are near completion. To extend this line to Darwin would require a major commitment of resources, therefore the Australian Government must first be assured of its feasibility and economic viability. 
In its report on the feasibility of a rail link between Alice Springs and Darwin in 1965 the Loder Committee concluded that the project was not justified then or in the foreseeable future in the absence of a major mineral discovery. 
I will be giving consideration to calling on the Bureau of Transport Economics to undertake a comprehensive study of extending the line north of Alice Springs before the standard gauge line to Alice Springs is completed. This would allowthe latest information to be included in the Bureau's investigations and evaluations to provide a basis for further consideration of extending the railway line north of Alice Springs. 
I do not know the opinions of all honourable members of this House regarding the congestion that exists in Sydney Harbour, or Port Jackson, but I know what mine are. It is time that the New South Wales Government got on with the job of developing a port which is efficient and which can handle both our interstate and our international trade efficiently and expeditiously instead of at the present rate. The handling rate at Sydney is about eight or nine containers an hour, which would be absolutely the worst record of any port in the world. The Australian Government is prepared to accept the responsibility of developing and operating all ports engaged in international trade as well as interstate trade. The Government believes that this is its responsibility, and it is prepared to accept that responsibility. I understand that the State Government is considering leasing the terminal. The Australian Government is prepared to accept that responsibility, to accept the lease and to operate it. 
In regard to the development of Botany Bay, once again, we have not been involved in that development. In this case, we are prepared to accept a share of the responsibility. In regard to the congestion which exists on the roads and the like in Sydney, the State Government has never been prepared to use the money made available to it by the Australian Government to relieve that congestion by developing a road system which could handle the traffic. However, when this year's allocations for roads are dealt with, I propose asking the Government to make provision whereby we will decide what roads are to be built with the money to be made available so that at least that section of the bottleneck can be overcome. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1968, 
I present the annual report of the operations of the Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30 June 1973. The financial statement of Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30 June 1973 was tabled in the House on 27 September 1973. 
I was astounded this morning when I read a Melbourne newspaper to find that  Mr Meagher  was critical of our decision to make available to Victoria $840,000 for low cost improvements to roads that have a bad safety record. I wish this gentleman would check his facts with his Department before he races into print. He says that the Victorian Government put its proposition to us some 12 months ago. I would like to make the record clear. On 14 May last year I informed the States that the Australian Government was to make money available for low cost traffic improvement programs and sought their co-operation. The initial discussion held with Victoria in June last year outlined just what the survey was all about. I requested information on projects on 16 July and asked that it be forwarded to my Department within 3 weeks. May I emphasise that: I asked for the information on 16 July and gave the Victorian Government a timetable of 3 weeks to furnish the information. 
All States with the exception of Victoria provided the information by midAugust. The result was that programs for all States except Victoria were approved in December last year. Victoria submitted information on its project on 11 October. Victoria wa.s asked for it on 16 July and given 3 weeks to submit it. We received it on 11 October. Discussions were then held with the Victorian officers on 22 November and the final program was submitted to us by the Victorian Government on 14 February and I approved it on 10 March. Details were released to the Press in Victoria on Sunday. The Minister for Transport in the Victorian Government talks about delays, but the facts I have outlined clearly establish that the most dilatory State in the Commonwealth in supply ing information is  Mr Meagher's  own Govern ment. These facts are indisputable. I would  bt  pleased to hear what  Mr Meagher  has to say about the matter now. We had the same problem with Victoria when we made an offer to upgrade public transport. Victoria was nol going to accept it. All I can say to the Victorian Government is that if it does not want the $840,000 let it say so and we will reallocate it to the other States. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill merely amends the Airlines Equipment Act 1958-1973 by introducing metric units into the appropriate sections. This Act is one of the keystones of the two-airline system, and under its provisions the Minister determines the aircraft capacity required by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to carry the estimated traffic on their competitive and non-competitive routes during a particular period. The air transport industry is progressively adopting metric units of measurement, and statistics will in future have the kilometre as the unit of distance and the tonne as the unit of weight. The basic unit of capacity and performance is the tonne-kilometre, which is one tonne carried one kilometre, and it is approximately equivalent to two-thirds of a ton-mile. Consistent with the general move towards metric conversion, it would now be appropriate to specify these metric units in the Airlines Equipment Act. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
the main causes of the present high level of the road toll in Australia; 
the most effective means of achieving greater road safety in Australia; 
the particular aspects of the problem to which those concerned with road safety could most advantageously direct their efforts; and 
the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia in terms of - 
material damage, 
loss of man hours and earning capacity, and 
cost of treatment of accident victims. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of seven Members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the Committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That three members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitutes a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
That the committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the previous House of Representatives Select Committees on Road Safety appointed in the second session of the twenty-seventh Parliament and the first session of the twenty-eighth Parliament. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the foregoing provisions of. this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
As you will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  a Select Committee on Road Safety was established by this House on 27 April 1972. It was reconstituted on 12 April 1973, following the general elections. Because Parliament has been prorogued it is again necessary for the House to reconstitute the Committee formally so that it can continue its important task. I commend the motion to honourable members. 
I am aware that Australian Trailways Pty Ltd, trading under the name of Centralian Tours, was placed in receivership on 9 January of this year as a result of H. C. Sleigh withdrawing its guarantee of the accounts of Centralian Tours. What actually happened was that on that date, 9 January, Centralian Tours ceased to operate. TAA immediately took over the company's tours that were under way - I believe that about 6 tours were in progress in Tasmania at that time - through its TAA-Mayne arrangement. It continued the tours, completed them and paid all accounts from 9 January onwards. The tours of people who had booked for tours after that date through Centralian Tours were once again taken over by TAA-Mayne; the bookings were honoured. 
The arrangement was that TAA sold tours and Centralian sold tours. Centralian Tours was completely responsible for all the bookings. Once a person booked a tour with Centralian Tours, it would then go ahead and arrange the tour and the accommodation and make the flight bookings with TAA. That was the basis on which Centralian Tours worked. Centralian Tours paid TAA the cost of the air travel and also paid the hotel and motel keepers the cost of meals and accommodation. From 9 January onwards TAA has paid the lot. I do not know the exact amount of money involved, but I do know that TAA got its fingers burnt to the extent of a little over $37,000 as a result of Centralian Tours being placed in receivership. 
As far as a bonding scheme is concerned, I think this is a matter for consideration by the people involved in these commercial enterprises. If a hotel keeper is doing business with a bus line and provides accommodation and meals, he should satisfy himself as to its bona fides and ability to meet its commitments. The same applies as far as TAA is concerned. I was not happy when I learnt about the background of Centralian Tours. For example, the buses it used were buses from the old Redline company which I described in this House some time ago as 'only rust buckets'. They had been involved in numerous accidents, including some in which people had been killed. I assure the honourable member for Braddon that, as the firm in question had operated under various names and finished up being known as Centralian Tours, I was most unhappy to find that I was literally responsible for the operation of a line which I had criticised when my predecessor held the portfolio as Minister for Shipping and Transport. I am concerned about the way things have turned out. 
In September of last year  Sir Basil  Arthur, the New Zealand Minister of Transport, and I had a long and most fruitful discussion in Canberra wherein agreement was reached on the basis of Australia's participation in trade with New Zealand. Since then the waterside workers and maritime unions of both countries have agreed that Australian flag vessels manned by Australians as well as New Zealand ships will be permitted to carry cargo between Australia and New Zealand. A very clear and positive understanding on shipping exists between the 2 countries and the unions, which is something more than existed before the Australian Labor Party came to office. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
This Bill relates closely to the Repatriation Bill. It is to give effect, so far as seamen and their dependants coming under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act are concerned, to Government decisions that provide for further increases in war pensions and allowances to be made early in the present sittings. It also gives effect to the Budget decision to abolish the special compensation allowance for a serious incapacity, and removes from the Act the power to prescribe the remuneration of members of the Seamen's Pensions and Allowances Committees, in consequence of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973. 
Under the Bill the existing intermediate rate of war pension is to be increased by $2.25 a week to $41.05 a week. This is the rate paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part time basis or intermittently. The Bill also increases the general rate pension in respect of Australian mariners by a further $3 a week to $22 a week and the war widow's pension also by a further $3 a week to $26 a week. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $4.50 a week in the special (TPI) rate, which brings it to $60.10, or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the serious disabilities set out in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act as the increases in rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensions by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The special compensation allowance introduced by the previous Government in 1968, and regarded as an anomaly in the pension structure, was halved under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act (No. 2) 1973. This Bill completely phases out this allowance. Elimination of the existing allowance, however, will be off-set by the increase in the General Rate pension. 
The principal Act makes provision for prescribing the remuneration of persons appointed to Seamen's Pensions and Allowances Committees. The Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 established a tribunal to determine the remuneration of, inter alia, the holders of such statutory offices. The Bill therefore omits this provision and inserts appropriate new provisions. The Bill does not appropriate the funds required to cover the increased benefits, as they are included in the appropriation under the Repatriation Bill. The increases in pensions and allowances will be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
 This morning the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  asked me a question. I regret that I misunderstood the question and gave him the right answer to the question I thought he had asked. The facts, as the honourable member knows are that some 20,000 tons of oranges are exported to New Zealand each year between June and January. Recently the growers sought a quotation from the Union Steam Ship Company for the carriage of fruit in the forthcoming season. Basically, the quote given by the shipping company was some 50 per cent higher than the freight charges last year. However, the Union Steam Ship Company offered to carry some of the crop on its roll-on roll-off ships, which would have been at a much lower price. However, the offer does not meet the requirements of the growers. The New Zealand importer was not prepared to accept the increase in freight charges which was proposed, so the exporters were left in the position of having to look for a cross trader. However, in discussions between my Department and the Department of Primary Industry, we have come up with a suggestion to the growers thai the Australian National Line may be able to assist in this matter by carrying the fruit in refrigerated containers. Accordingly, I suggest that the growers talk to the Line to see whether a satisfactory solution can be found to this problem. I shall be quite happy to give the honourable member for Angas and the growers any assistance that is possible to ensure that their crop of oranges is carried to New Zealand. 
Following a question asked of my colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation on 5 March I wish to make available for the information of honourable members the Environmental Assessment - Proposed Aerodrome on Lord Howe Island. As copies of the report are limited I am arranging for 6 copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I thank the honourable member for asking that question. For 23 years the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government and could get nowhere on this matter. When I took over as Minister for Transport the whole matter was bogged down. We are now completely in the clear. I am hopeful of a very early announcement on this subject. 
I have no knowledge of any tax to be imposed to discourage people from using or buying large cars, medium sized cars or small cars. 1 am aware that people who are interested in road safety are concerned about the effects of accidents involving large cars, which are referred to by some people as Yank tanks, and small vehicles. Invariably the smaller vehicle comes off second-best in an accident. As far as pollution is concerned, we know that the large motor car pollutes the atmosphere much more than the small vehicle does. To me this whole question has to be examined on its merits. We have to determine what people want, whether they want large motor cars that are polluting the atmosphere or whether we should use small vehicles. I have been quite clear on this matter. I have clearly indicated that I believe people should be encouraged to use small motor cars and that motor vehicle manufacturers should be required to build into small cars safety features that are necessary to protect the life and welfare of the people who travel in them. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill is to honour the promise made by the Australian Government to accept a share in the responsibility for the public transport systems of Australian cities. It seeks to give effect to an Agreement between the Australian Government and the States to undertake improvement projects for the public transport systems of the major cities of Australia. The Bill is a milestone in the history of transport in this country, marking as it does the first allocation of finance by a Federal government for State urban transport systems. It is to the credit of this Government that in our first 18 months of office we have taken action aimed at a major Australian Government injection of finance to revitalise transport within our cities. It is to the everlasting discredit of the honourable gentlemen opposite who sat on this side of the House for 23 years ignoring the plight of our cities, and allowing the transport systems which daily serve twothirds of the population of Australia to become so run down that they are used only when the public has no. alternative. 
Under the States Grants Bill an amount of S71.91m is appropriated for expenditure on urban public transport projects commencing in 1973/74. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated in his Budget Speech last year it is intended that these amounts will increase rapidly in the future. The actual amounts to be expended in future years will be determined in the context of the Budget and included in annual appropriations. 
In many overseas countries with comparable standards to Australia it has long been accepted that central governments must be involved in the provision of public transport services. In the United States the Federal Government provides up to 80 per cent of the cost of projects aimed at improving transport services. In Great Britain the Government provides up to 75 per cent of the capital cost of transport improvement projects and in West Germany the Federal Government sets aside 40 per cent of additional fuel taxes imposed in 1967 for this purpose. It is tragic that past Australian governments have failed to accept their responsibility in this field. They hid behind the tired old argument that it was a State responsibility. 
For years the present Opposition neglected the needs of the State public transport systems while pumping money into road systems. Public transport has been allowed to run down to a condition where it is now hardly a realistic alternative to private motor vehicle travel. This has led to a situation where cities are less attractive places in which to live and work, and where congested roads and air pollution are the norm rather than the exception. 
This Government is intent on rectifying this appalling situation and in the terms of the Agreement will contribute two-thirds of the cost of projects approved for assistance. Unfortunately certain reservations have been expressed by some States about their ability to fund their one-third of the costs. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated, the Australian Government is prepared to accept the transfer of responsibility for States railway systems. When such transfers are effected the Australian Government will fund the total costs of improvements to these urban rail systems. 
Our predecessors stand condemned for their lack of action to assist urban transport. During the 10 years to 1970-71 public capital expenditure on urban roads was over $l,850m, but in the same period the amount spent on capital improvements to government owned public transport services was only $200m. That is just 11 per cent of the funds provided for urban road development. Surely no one could claim this was a reasonable allocation of funds. It is neglect on a grand scale and this neglect is reflected in the usage of these services. 
The number of passenger journeys on government operated public transport services declined from 1,122 million to 948 million, a fall of 16 per cent during the 10 year period from 1961-62 to 1970-71. As urban population increased from 5.7 million to 7.5 million over that time the actual number of journeys per capita on government operated public transport declined by a staggering 35 per cent. In 1970-71 itself, capital expenditure on urban public transport was $30m of which one-third was for the Eastern Suburbs Railway in Sydney and the Melbourne underground. Capital investment for those systems actually in operation represented the 'massive' investment of 2c per passenger journey. 
I believe the rate of this decline in the standard of urban public transport has increased over recent times. Public transport operators are caught in a vicious circle. Declining patronage reduces revenue, and increases the losses, so fares are increased and/or services reduced. These actions cause more people to turn to alternative means of transport so further increasing the losses which operators sustain. Whilst details of losses of the railways urban passenger operations are not available, the sorry story of urban transport's financial position is illustrated by the results of government bus and tram operations. Between 1961- 62 and 1970-71 the losses on these services in the capital cities rose from $8. 2m to $19. lm, an increase of 133 per cent. 
The agreement which we are seeking to ratify has been produced as a result of extensive discussions at both ministerial and official level and takes account of the interests and rights of all parties. One of the practical features of the Agreement is that it ensures that there is scope for discussion on any issues that may arise between the Australian and State governments. Another major feature of the Agreement is the provision for Australian Government representation on State Government bodies concerned with transport forward planning and policy development. It is through this representation that we will be able to facilitate the interchange of ideas between the States which has been lacking in the past. We will ensure as far as practicable that there is no duplication of effort between States in the urban transport field and we will be exercising our responsibilities to the taxpayers of this country in the expenditure of their money. Through this representation we will also be able, as a complement to our broad urban strategies, to put clearly to the States our objectives in urban transport and to have them taken into account in the development of their programs. / 
I have spoken about the need for a program such as the one this Government has initiated. I would now like to briefly describe the types of projects that will be undertaken. In March 1973 the States were requested to submit their proposed program of capital improvements for the 5 years to 1977-78. The approach adopted by the Australian Government was to consider only those projects that were proposed to commence in 1973-74. This approach wll enable the program to maintain flexibility. As our knowledge of urban transport services and the requirements of the travelling public is improved programs will be altered to take account of these requirements. In determining which projects would be supported for commencement in 1973-74, the Australian Government had to consider the allocation of funds in its overall budgetary context and the demands that the projects will place on other industries, particularly in the area of construction. One major deficiency throughout the urban systems is the age, almost antiquity, of rolling stock currently in use. Over 400 units, or 80 per cent, of the Sydney trains are over 45 years old, over 100 of the Melbourne trains are at least 45 years old and some were constructed last century. Approximately half of the Melbourne tram fleet of almost 700 vehicles is over 40 years old. The Australian Government has allocated $ 17.26m, or 55 per cent of its proposed 1973-74 expenditure for the acquisition of new rolling stock. The New South Wales Public Transport Commission will be able to purchase 52 new double-deck passenger rail cars. In Melbourne, as well as providing over $3.6m for improving passenger railway stock and $0.1 5m for new trams we will provide over $0.5m for the purchase of 30 buses, to replace vehicles presently in use which are over 20 years old - well past their normal economic life. 
In Adelaide, Perth and Hobart the acquisition of new buses is a major item in the 1973-74 program. There are of course, many other projects which we are assisting, including the quadruplication of the railway line between Granville and Penrith, costing $ 17.2m, which will greatly improve services to a rapidly expanding part of Sydney. A number of additional tracks will be constructed in Melbourne in order to relieve congestion on the rail system. When completed this extra capacity will enable the number of express services operated to and from the outer suburban area to be increased. In Adelaide and Brisbane we will be assisting with the electrification of urban rail links. There will be continuing benefits in terms of reduced operating costs and more efficient railway services arising from these efforts. Separate busways and bus only lanes are to be constructed in Sydney and Perth and the facilities for waiting passengers will be improved in most cities. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the allocation of Australian Government funds to the cities. Very briefly, it shows that the allocation under the present scheme is $3 1.09m and that in subsequent years it will be $40.82m. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill complements the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1974 which I previously introduced into the House. The Bill authorises expenditure of $lm on grants to the States for research and planning projects related to urban public transport. Under the terms of the Bill the Australian Government will meet two-thirds of the cost of approved studies. 
The tasks to be undertaken under the research and planning scheme will assist both the State and Australian governments in determining our approach to improving urban public transport. It is our stated policy that no one transport mode should receive particular advantage over another and these funds should assist in achieving this end. We expect that there shall now be a far more thorough examination of alternative transport solutions to particular problems and that the States will use this money to evaluate the latest advances in transport technology with a view to the eventual implementation of these advances. 
In the past there has been an unfortunate lack of research in this area. Whilst the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics have been established to undertake research into transport matters these bodies have not exclusively concentrated upon research into urban transport matters. Their tasks have extended over the entire ambit of transport and consequently there is still much valuable research which needs to be undertaken in the field of urban transport. It must be appreciated that the States with their operating expertise are in the best position to undertake a number of the tasks that should be done. Unfortunately they have been prevented from doing this in the past because of a lack of finance. 
The funds will also enable the States to keep abreast of developments in such transport technologies as personal rapid transport and dialabus which are presently on the threshold of operational practicability. Provision of planning funds will allow decisions to be made on a more rational basis than is presently the case, particularly in relation to the projects the States propose under the terms of the urban public transport assistance program. 
It is envisaged that the investigations will extend beyond the examination of hardware proposals into such matters as software systems, including the examination of management techniques, and to studies of the relationship between modes. The long term results of this expenditure will be seen in an improved service to the public, through the more rapid introduction of new technologies, and through the most efficient allocation of resources within the public transport sector. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
In the recent report by the Australian Bureau of Roads on Australian road system, which I tabled in the House, the Bureau recommended to the Government the setting up of a national highway system in which the Australian Government should accept greater responsibility. One of its recommendations was that a study be conducted as to where the highway between Goulburn and Albury should actually go - whether it should follow the existing wide loop which passes through Yass and then goes on to Albury, or whether a new road should be constructed from Collector, to come in close to Canberra, to pass through Wee Jasper. Tumut and Batlow, and then to pick up the highway somewhere near Tarcutta. This is the alternative proposition that we have been asked to have a look at. 
A preliminary study has been conducted, from which a recommendation has been made that a full scale study be conducted to determine which is the most desirable route, lt would cost something like $50m to upgrade the existing road to a 4-lane divided carriageway standard. If the short cut coming close to Canberra is approved of, that will reduce the distance between Sydney and Albury by about 70 miles, provide a road close to Canberra and at the same time, when the new city of Albury-Wodonga - the responsibility of my friend the Minister for Urban and Regional Development - is fully developed and operational as it will be shortly, there will be a need for a shorter route connecting Canberra through Tumut. I personally lean towards the shorter route coming in close to Canberra involving a 4-lane divided carriageway road and connecting with the existing Hume Highway. Whether it be called the Hume Highway is immaterial but the existing road would be retained for the convenience of people who want to travel from Goulburn to Yass and further south towards Melbourne. 
Yes, I am aware that a very prominent figure in general aviation today has been most critical of everything that the Australian Government has attempted to do with aviation. According to him, irrespective of what the Government did it was wrong. For example, it was alleged that the Government did not know how to conduct a search for the 'Blythe Star'. I think I know who the honourable member is talking about but I do not want to name the person. 
The honourable member knows who it is as well as I do. 
Of course you do. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 21 March 1973, I wrote to both the Australian National Line and the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited saying that it would be beneficial if both organisations were to co-operate in considering a standard design for a large bulk carrier in excess of 100,000 dwt suitable for the coastal trade. 
I indicated that the experience which they would gain in operating the large imported vessels for which approvals had been given would be valuable in arriving at the most suitable design. Both ANL and BHP replied on 27 March 1973 saying that joint discussions had already been held on this matter. BHP stated that further consideration of the matter would be undertaken when clarification was obtained regarding the largest size vessel that it would be possible in future to build in Australia. 
Progress on this matter has been delayed because, until recently, there was only one bulk carrier in excess of 100,000 dwt operating on the coast. There are now three such vessels in the coastal bulk trades, two being operated by BHP and one by ANL. 
As the Australian National Line vessel only commenced trading in February 1974 the Line has not yet had an opportunity to gain operational experience with a vessel of this size. 
CoffsHarbour  (Question No. 229) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that Coffs Harbour has not been established as a designated growth centre. 
Yes. 
and (4) I have received no representations to this effect. 
Yes. All ANL ships are fully committed in the trades in which they are now operating and none would be available to provide a service between Coffs Harbour and New Zealand. 
This is a matter coming within the responsibility of the Minister for Labour. 
CoffsHarbour: Discontinuance of  Major Shipping  Service (Question No. 230) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes; a submission was presented for consideration, proposing: 
that a ship of the Australian National Line be supplied to service the port 
if such a ship were not available then the Government charter a suitable vessel 
that the Government provide a subsidy to maintain the port as a viable entity 
that the Government institute an inquiry into the problem as a matter of urgency. 
and (4) The private enterprise shipping service was discontinued because it was uneconomic. The needs of the timber industry were however, met with a more attractive service involving shipment through Newcastle. The Australian National Line which was consulted on the matter advised that it was not in a position to provide a service between Coffs Harbour and New Zealand. Neither was it considered practicable for the Australian Government to charter a suitable vessel as such a service would not have been economic at the existing freight rates. I see no reason for the Line to provide a direct service (or for the Government to charter a vessel) when a direct service has been proved uneconomic and while timber shippers' needs are generally being met by shipping through Newcastle. For the same reasons 
 This subject has been of concern to this House for some considerable time. When I was the shadow Minister for Transport I said on numerous occasions that we would do something about this problem. Since I have been Minister for Transport I have had a number of informal discussions with the airlines and I have asked them to do something about their schedules. I have had meetings with them as recently as two and a half to three weeks ago. Since then I have issued a specific instruction to my Department that it is to confer with the air lines and that it is to get rid of parallel scheduling as quickly as possible. After 4 meetings between my Department and the airlines we are getting nowhere. We face complete frustration. If the airline companies continue along these lines the Government will take some very positive action against them to force them to abandon the idea of parallel scheduling. It is absolutely ridiculous. Even on the Sydney to Melbourne run, which has approximately 28 nights a day the flights of both airline companies leave on the hour, with other services in between. At present nights to Tasmania, Alice Springs, Coolangatta and even to the Australian Capital Territory are scheduled by both companies at 7.10 a.m., 8.20 a.m. and at regular intervals throughout the day. Unless the companies do something about this situation immediately the Government will have to examine ways and means of overcoming the problem; for example, by not allowing the companies to use Commonwealth airports for a start 
For the information of honourable members I make available interim report on the international terminal at Brisbane Airport by the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Advisory Committee report of the 1970-1971 review of primary airport facilities to serve the future needs of Brisbane. I am arranging for copies of these reports to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I want to clear up a few points.' First and foremost it is perfectly true, as I said on a previous occasion, that I knew that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr. Donald Cameron)  was speaking on the adjournment. It was reported to me, incidentally, not by the honourable member. My staff drew to my attention on Monday night that the honourable member was speaking on the adjournment about the Brisbane Airport. I give him the same answer today as I gave him late last year, that is, that when his own Party takes him seriously and treats him seriously and not for what he is, I will treat him seriously also. That is the situation. The Liberal Party treats him as a nobody, so I give him the same treatment. In any case, when cousin Clem is finished with him in a few weeks time he will not even be here. He is one of the Jones family. When the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Clem Jones, has dealt with the honourable member that will be the finish of the honourable member. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Locock)Order! I suggest that that is irrelevant to the subject before the Chair. 
I think what I am saying is relevant because the honourable member has made accusations against me about my not coming into this place and replying to him when he raises the matter of the Brisbane Airport on the adjournment. 
Let us really examine the facts relating to the honourable member for Griffith. He has been a member of this Parliament since about 1963, I think. 
During all the period he was a member supporting the Government and on one occasion only did he see fit to raise the question of the Brisbane Airport. He was a supporter of a Party that had been in government for 23 years until December 1972. That is how much real interest he had in raising the question in this place to make sure that Brisbane got rid of the igloo which serves as an international terminal. That is his record. The honourable member for Griffith says: "The Minister knows that when he was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise I appeared before the Committee and gave evidence'. The honourable member appeared before the Committee for one reason, namely that he thought it was politically discreet that he do so. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  also appeared before the Committee of which I happened to be a member. I was the one to whom the honourable member was referring. Everyone had a go. It was open season on the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
The difference between the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Lilley then was that the honourable member for Griffith at the time of the Committee hearings was a Government supporter but he did nothing about the problems that beset Brisbane. The Government did nothing about them. That is the difference between the 2 honourable members. The honourable member for Lilley supports the present Government which is doing something about them. That is the difference between the activities of the 2 honourable members. The honourable member for Griffith got nowhere, and the honourable member for Lilley has got somewhere, and that is why all honourable members opposite are bitching here today over what is going on. That is why the honourable member for Griffith, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and all the rest of the Opposition are going crook here today. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  raised the phoney issue of the matter not being referred to the Public Works Committee. This is why all Opposition members are whingeing here today. They are whingeing because the Government which they supported did nothing and the present Government is doing something positive. 
Let us look at the facts of the matter. The original scheme proposed by the Liberal Party was to extend the existing north east-south east runway, first of all, by cutting off about 4000 feet at the north east end and then extending it further down. Money was provided to resume land at Pinkenba. The land resumed is not altogether necessary under the present scheme, but some of it will come in handy. It was not necessary for the previous Government to have resumed all the land that it did. Honourable members know now what the former Government intended to do. 
The honourable member for Griffith referred to the contents of the Coombs report. Of course the report sets out a timetable of expenditure. The previous Government also had a scheme, which I have just outlined, but it did not go on with it. I tabled today the former Liberal-Country Party Government plan dated January 1972. I emphasise that date - January 1972. The previous Government was defeated in December 1972. Was all this money necessary for its plan? The report prepared for the previous Government was completed in January 1972. Was it going to be another one of those airy fairy dreams of Bob Cotton and Reggie Swartz about what the Government was going to do in regard to the Brisbane airport? Why did the previous Government not include provision for the scheme in the 1972-73 Budget? I ask honourable members opposite to answer that question. The previous Government did not include the money in that Budget only because it was typical of the humbug that it had indulged in for 23 years. It was never prepared to do anything about the Brisbane Airport. It had an igloo there. The only reason that TransAustralia Airlines got a new airport terminal was that its original premises were burnt down. That is why we are worried about this one. We are prepared to go ahead with this. 
The honourable member for Wakefield was concerned that the Government had not referred the matter to the Public Works Committee. We are not referring it to the Public Works Committee for one very simple reason, and that is that there is going to be a double dissolution of this Parliament within the next couple of days and we want - 
 Yes, it is good. You fellows will not be here after it. In particular, the honourable member for Griffith will not be here after Clem Jones has finished dealing with him. The whole question comes around to the fact that the Government has by-passed the Public Works Committee because it wants to get on with the job. The Government wants the new terminal operative in the year 1975-76 because of the intolerable conditions under which the former Government allowed the people in the aviation industry in Brisbane to operate. Every time there is a storm in Brisbane the terminal has to be vacated. During the recent cyclones in Queensland,  the  international terminal was vacated under instructions of the Department of Transport. Do honourable members opposite want the terminal to remain in that condition? The previous Governemnt was prepared to do so and, as I said a moment ago, honourable members opposite are whingeing because they did not do the job and we are going to do the job. That is the difference between the two. 
We will be here to do it, do not worry about that. I will make sure that the honourable member for Lilley opens it. The reason why the honourable member has not asked  any questions during this session is because they told him that the report was under way and that it would be coming out. Honourable members opposite talk about this proposal being an election gimmick. The fact of the matter is that one does not get the Bureau of Transport Economics to prepare a report in 5 minutes. It became obvious only a week ago that the Senate was trying its arm out and that the Parties opposite would refuse supply. One does not prepare a report like this in a matter of a week. The report: is dated March 1974. The report and the submission were presented to Cabinet last Sunday. They would have been presented in any case because  Mr Gross,  the man who is responsible for handling this matter in the Department, and myself worked on the assumption and the knowledge we had about the report and decided what we were going to do with it months ago. So the situation is that this proposal would have been put forward in any case. 
Honourable members opposite are just trying to hold this work up as they held it up when they were in government. They want to hold up this work by referring it to the Public Works Committee. But the Public Works Committee will be out of existence after today. That means that the terminal will not be built by the summer of 1975-76. That is what honourable members opposite want. We are determined that there will be a terminal by that time. We will avoid  the risk of people being killed in the event of the old building collapsing or catching fire, as happened with the Trans-Australia Airlines terminal. These are the things that we are out to correct. 
The proposal is outlined in the Advisory Committee report on the 1970-71 review of primary airport facilities to serve the future needs of Brisbane. This report has been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for a full and detailed report on the economics of the Brisbane Airport. We are not going to wait until that investigation is completed because we realise that we have to do something about the international terminal which Reg Swartz and  Senator Cotton  when they were the Ministers responsible for civil aviation did nothing about. The Bureau of Trans port Economics, as I have said, is carrying out a full and detailed study of the proposal. It will give us the full facts of.it. 
I notice a report in a newspaper which stated that the proposed terminal is to be situated a long long way from the domestic terminals. If honourable members would only open the report and have a look at it they would see that what we are proposing to do is to use a building which when the full scheme comes into operation will revert and be used as a maintenance depot. The building will be a building quite satisfactory to meet the requirements and standards of international air travel and will be adjacent to the existing north east-south west runway. There will be road access to this runway. There Will be parking facilities adjacent to the terminal. The question is: What more do honourable members want? There is no necessity for an international terminal and a domestic terminal to be situated alongside each other. The international terminal and domestic terminal at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport are not situated together. At Sydney the international terminal is situated on the western side of the north-south runway and on the eastern side is the domestic terminal. Is there anything wrong with that? The airlines provide transport for people who want to go from one terminal to the other. This is what will happen at Brisbane Airport. Transport will be provided for people to go from the international terminal to the domestic terminal and vice versa 
It is very clear that what has upset Opposition members is the fact that the Government of which they were supporters did nothing about providing this building whereas this Government is doing something about it. We want to get on with the job. We do not want to be mucked around by having to delay this proposal by having it referred to the Public Works Committee. There is nothing irregular about what we are doing. The proposal envisages an expenditure of some $3. 7m. Members of the Opposition should stop their whingeing and support the resolution so that we can get on with the job and give Brisbane an international airport, which is something that it never got in 23 years of LiberalCountry Party Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the existence of a number of devices designed to tell a motorist whether he is above the legal blood alcohol limit. There is a variety of 'Puff-Bag' devices where the colour of crystals changes if the legal limit is exceeded. 
There are also 'Ready-Reckoner' devices where one reads off a calculated blood alcohol concentration by relating the number of drinks and the time taken to drink them to one's body-weight. There are also reactiontesting devices which, whilst they do not assess blood alcohol concentration, can give a guide to the extent of impairment of those skills related to driving. 
Yes. My Department is continuously watching progress in the development and assessment of such devices. Widescale implementation will, however, depend on their validity as indicators of blood alcohol concentration, the likely extent of their use and degree to which an adverse reading actually prevents a drinker from driving. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The Council noted advice from the National Health and Medical Research Council that there was no data available to indicate that lead emissions from motor vehicles could cause poisoning. 
The Council, however, instructed their officials to seek further advice on the matter. 
The Council's Advisory Committee on such matters is currently discussing the problem in the light of recent advice from the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Precise details of Australian ownership of the road transport industry are not readily available. 
At this stage, no. 
It is the stated policy for the current Australian Government to compete actively with private enterprise in interstate transport by sea, air or road 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) No such interdepartmental committee has been established. There was an interdepartmental committee on land transport between Port Augusta and Alice Springs set up by the previous Government but that committee has not met since 1970. 
In May 1973, however, an ad hoc interdepartmental committee was convened to consider the use of the range road in the context of the National Highways Study which was then underway. The Departments represented at the meeting were Supply, Defence, Northern Development, Northern Territory, Services and Property, Tourism and Recreation, Transport and the Treasury. 
The meeting had no formal terms of reference or timetable, nor was it constituted as a committee with powers of recommendation. Representatives at the meeting were in agreement that while the present range road could not be incorporated as part of the Stuart Highway without major disruption of the range's function, it should be possible to establish an acceptable alignment across the Woomera prohibited area which would not interfere to an unacceptable extent with the operations of the range. This would require a detailed survey and feasibility study, and in the Bureau of Roads 'Report on Roads in Australia 1973', it is suggested that a corridor study of the Port Augusta-Alice Springs segment be undertaken. 
The results of any detailed study undertaken to establish the alignment of a possible National Highway section within the Woomera Prohibited Area will be considered for incorporation in published documents. 
May I say first of all that in the present dispute concerning the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers, the union made an application to  Mr Justice  Ludeke for 4 sets of study leave of about 1 6 weeks each. The union was granted 2 sets of study leave, one of 15 weeks and one of 16 weeks, on 75 per cent of the members' aggregate wage. This meant that the members would receive their normal rate of pay not including overtime. They would be paid in full for the time they would be taking the study leave. The union has rejected the decision by  Mr Justice  Ludeke and wants the full amount for the 4 sets. 
It might be interesting to note at this point that when the union made a submission to the Commission which this Government has appointed, it asked only for what  Mr Justice  Ludeke later gave it. In other words, at that time the union asked for on!ly 2 sets of study leave of 16 weeks at 75 per cent of the members' aggregate wage. That is what they received. That is what they asked for originally. It would be interesting to know what evidence the union has brought forward in the intervening period to justify the demand for 4 sets of study leave instead of 2 sets. I think that the action of the union is most irresponsible. It has no regard for hundreds of workers who are being thrown out of employment in Tasmania. 
'Thousands of workers', the honourable member for Franklin interjects. The union has no regard for thousands, of men who are being thrown out of employment there or for the hundreds of thousands of people who are being inconvenienced by this dispute. One should take into consideration the fact that these men are receiving annual salaries of between $11,750 and $18,000, and that is the regard they have for people on less than average weekly earnings. I have issued a direction to the Australian National Line not to concede to this demand otherwise it will mean that every time a union goes on strike it will continue the strike and one will have to concede every point that the union demands. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I have had discussions on this matter. We are in complete agreement that if the union wants this additional leave it will have to go back to where it came from, namely, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It will have to present a case and argue why its members should be granted the additional leave. There is no justification for the dispute. The channels are available for the union to explore.  Mr Justice  Moore has offered to adjudicate in the matter, to hear argument and to deal with it on that basis. That is the way I see it and that is the way the Minister for Labor and Immigration also sees it. We have been in touch with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I personally have had discussions with  Mr Souter.  Last Friday on behalf of the Australian Transport Advisory Council I forwarded a telegram to  Mr Souter.  It is a long one. If honourable members wish, I will have it incorporated in Hansard. 
-I have had discussions with Alderman Clem Jones, the Lord Mayor of Brisbane. 
Now then, cocky Cameron; your day will come - never fear. As I was saying, I have had discussions with 
Alderman Jones, the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, concerning the problem which was created by a private bus company selling some of its buses, I believe- 
All right. The problem was created by a private bus operator selling some of its buses to the New South Wales Transport Commission and the refusal of the Queensland Government to give the company any assistance whatsoever. This Government is prepared to assist it. At the present time, an application for buses to be supplied as part of the 1974-75 program is being considered. I am confident that money will be allocated for the purchase of the buses required to assist the Brisbane City Council to meet its responsibilities to the people of Brisbane, something which the Queensland Government was not prepared to do. 
Under the previous Commonwealth aid roads agreement introduced by the former Government, the allocation from the Australian Government was $ 1,252m for a 5-year program. We are proposing to introduce shortly legislation which will make provision for $1,1 20m for a 3-year program which means that the allocations for roads will be substantially increased for the 3-year period. We are not proposing to follow the method applied by the former Government which had no interest in transport and was not prepared to give any leadership whatsoever or to ensure that this country had a national roads system, but which was prepared to allow the chaotic system which had prevailed over the years to continue. We are prepared to give leadership to the States and to set out what we want done as far as roads are concerned. The accusations made by  Sir Charles  Cutler in New South Wales are typical of the squealing which is coming from a number of State Ministers responsible for roads who are not prepared to examine the facts. The facts clearly disclose that we will have a roads system in this country, not the present chaotic situation. For example, if the present rate of construction of the Hume Highway - a national highway - is maintained it will be completed to a reasonable standard in the year 2100 - that is, if the States are left to go their own way about it. 

 - Mr Virgo is quite happy with it because he knows what is under way. As far as the honourable member's question is concerned, the Australian Government will be paying in full the total cost of construction of national highways involved in this 3-year program - $400m. This will mean that the State governments will have money available to them to spend on programs which they wish to introduce. Another thing we propose to introduce in this legislation is an allocation for other urban roads. Previously there has been an allocation for other rural roads which has been squandered on the rich friends of the Country Party. You can always tell where the shire councillors and presidents and leaders of the Country Party live because they have good roads from their farms into the towns. We will make money available for rural towns as well as rural communities. The States, not having to allocate money for national highways, will be in a position of being able to allocate it for roads other than those in categories which we are laying down. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. For the second time the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill is presented to Parliament in order to ratify an Agreement between the Australian Government and the States to improve the quality, capacity, efficiency and frequency, of the public transport in our major cities. A commitment was made by the Australian Government to accept a share in the responsibility for the public transport systems of Australian cities in the 1972 policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  We have always been determined to honour that commitment. The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill is a milestone in the history of transport in this country, marking as it does the first allocation of finance by an Australian government for State urban transport systems. 
All State governments have accepted the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement. The dates of signing of the Agreement were: The Western Australian and South Australian Premiers on 28 March; the Prime Minister on 29 March; the Victorian Premier on 4 June; the Queensland Premier on 11 June; the Acting New South Wales Premier on 12 June; and the Tasmanian Premier on 13 June. It is to the credit of this Government that despite delays we have taken action in so short a time to provide a major Australian government injection of finance in order that transport within our cities will be revitalised. 
But let me stress that urban public transport has suffered no unexpected overnight demise. Rather these systems have painfully withered away over the last 50 years. It is to the everlasting discredit of the honourable gentlemen opposite, who sat on this side of the House for 23 years, that the plight of our cities was ignored. Consequently, the transport systems which daily serve two-thirds of Australia's population were allowed to become so run down that they are used only when the traveller has virtually no alternative. 
Under the States Grants Bill an amount of $7 1.91m is appropriated for expenditure on urban public transport projects that were scheduled to commence in 1973-74. Of this, $3 1.09m was intended to be spent in 1973-74. It is the responsibility of the honourable members of the Opposition that not one cent of these funds has yet been provided as this Bill would have been passed several months ago but for the recent double dissolution. The States have been forced to battle on their own for longer than was necessary. 
In many overseas countries with comparable standards to Australia it has long been accepted that central governments must be involved in the provision of public transport services in cities. In the United States the federal government provides up to 80 per cent of the cost of projects aimed at improving these services. In Great Britain the government provides up to 75 per cent of the capital cost of urban public transport improvement projects and in West Germany the federal government sets aside 40 per cent of additional fuel taxes imposed in 1967 for this purpose. 
It is tragic that past Australian Liberal and Country Party governments have failed to accept their responsibility in this field. They hid behind the usual old argument that it was a State responsibility. However, in their inevitable fashion the men of the past finally realised in preparing 'policies' for the recent election that the community demanded that the Australian government, regardless of whichever party it was, take action in this field. 
For years the present Liberal and Country Party Opposition neglected the needs of the State public transport systems while pumping money into roads. Public transport has been allowed to run down to a condition where it is now hardly a realistic alternative to the private motor vehicle. The consequences of this approach, which was contrary to the policies and experiences of so many overseas governments, are that today's cities are less attractive places in which to live and work. We are now in a position where congested roads and air pollution are the norm rather than the exception. 
The pollutants emitted from the internal combustion engine are carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and particulates. They result mainly from the incomplete combustion of the fuel and from high temperature oxidation processes. Some emissions are pollutants themselves, such as carbon monoxide, smoke and lead. Nitrogen oxides, while pollutants, also react with hydrocarbons in the atmosphere to produce other pollutants including photochemical oxidants. In the cities, motor vehicles are virtually the sole source of carbon monoxide, the main source of hydrocarbons and a large source of oxides of nitrogen. The relative volume of these pollutants emitted by various types of motor vehicles is shown in the following table which is based on readings taken in Sydney. The figures for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen are for the period 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and for carbon monoxide, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the table to which I have referred. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill complements the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1974 which I previously introduced into the House. The Bill authorises expenditure of $lm on grants to the States for research and planning projects related to urban public transport. Under the terms of the Bill the Australian Government will meet two-thirds of the cost of approved studies. As honourable members will appreciate this Bill relates to 1973-74. Because of the delays that have occurred this Bill must operate retrospectively. The Australian Government decided to continue with the allocation of these funds as the States have been made aware of our intention to support research and planning. Accordingly research and planning projects have been initiated by the States for which they, quite rightly, expected a two-thirds contribution of costs by the Australian Government. In order to honour our commitments I am now reintroducing this Bill. 
The tasks to be undertaken under the Research and Planning Scheme will assist both the State and Australian Governments in determining their approach to improving urban public transport. It is our stated policy that no one transport mode should receive particular advantage over another and these funds Should assist in achieving this end. We expect that there shall now be a far more thorough examination of alternative, transport solutions to particular problems and that the States will use this money to evaluate the latest advances in transport technology with a view to the eventual implementation of these advances. 
In the past there has been an unfortunate lack of research in this area. The Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics have been established by the Australian Government to undertake research into transport matters but these bodies have not exclusively concentrated upon research into urban transport matters. Their tasks have extended over the entire ambit of transport and consequently there is still much valuable research which needs to be undertaken in the field of urban transport. Of course some of their work has been in the field of urban public transport. In this regard I will shortly be tabling the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on Consumer Preferences in Urban Rail Carriage Design. This survey was undertaken throughout Brisbane during May and June of last year with the co-operation of Queensland Railways. A similar bus passenger preference survey will shortly be commenced. 
As well as undertaking investigations into public transport the Bureau of Transport Economics has been investigating alternative fuel sources for the car. Studies into the use of liquid petroleum gas and electric vehicles have been undertaken and I expect shortly to receive the reports from the Director of the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
However, I do not consider that the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics should be expected to be the only bodies undertaking research into public transport. It must be appreciated that the States with their operating expertise are in the best position to undertake a number of the investigations that should be made into urban public transport. Unfortunately the States have been prevented from doing this in the past because of a lack of finance. The funds will also enable the States to keep abreast of developments in such transport technologies as personal rapid transport and dial-a-bus which are presently on the threshold of operational practicability. 
As all Australians must be aware developments are proceeding overseas into new transport technologies. I am reminded of the work being undertaken to develop magnetic suspension systems. These include developments by Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blohm, the developments of the French Aerotrain and Krauss.Maffei's Transurban and Transrapid systems. 
During my brief overseas visit last month to attend the 39th session of the European Conference of Ministers of Transport I took the opportunity to inspect the progress made toward the construction of a similar system in Nancy, France. This system, which has been developed by the Otis Elevator Company, is expected to be carrying 110,000 people per day by 1977 and 165,000 people per day by 1985. 
Even within existing systems there is scope for exciting developments. In most major European cities, for example, special priority systems operate for the exclusive use of buses including, for example, road use arrangements which allow for buses to operate in exclusive lanes against the flow of traffic thus allowing a faster service to be provided. These systems enable public transport to come closer towards providing a level of service comparable with that provided by the private motor vehicle. Provision of planning funds will allow decisions to be made on a more rational basis than is presently the case, particularly in relation to the projects the States propose under the terms of the urban public transport assistance program. 
Studies could be undertaken into fare structures. Such issues as the desirability of zoned fares, fiat fare charges or a one fare structure for all modes could have a significant impact on the demand for public transport. The overall level of fares is another issue worthy of investigation. As it is generally accepted that urban public transport is not financially viable the level of fares should not reflect total costs but should also take into account such benefits to the community as reductions in road congestion and pollution from motor vehicles and the system's ready availability. Studies on the level of fares should also consider the charges on alternative transport modes through such factors as the cost and availability of off-street parking. Indeed I would be pleased to co-operate with local and State governments in studies to determine whether to restrict the availability of such parking within central business districts. 
I have pointed to the inter-dependence of the various transport modes. The Australian Government is determined to rationalise its approach to developing policies for transport. 
This Bill allocates funds for only one year. Future research and planning funds for urban transport will be provided under closely coordinated and integrated arrangements in which funds for road research and planning and urban transport research and planning are made available within the one piece of legislation. This is a logical step from our initiative to combine all major transport responsibilities under one Minister and within one department. It is envisaged that investigations to be undertaken under this scheme will extend beyond the examination of hardware proposals. As I have outlined such matters as software systems, including the examination of management techniques, and studies of the relationship between modes will also be the subject of comprehensive studies. 
The long term results of this expenditure will be seen in improved service to the public, through the more rapid introduction of new technologies, and through the most efficient allocation of resources within the public transport sector. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
What was, in my opinion, a very unreasonable award was brought down just recently. 
 A 'sweetheart' award has been suggested. Very substantial increases were granted. Some were in excess of 60 per cent. The total cost of this new award would represent something like Slim for about 1,200 employees. The Government is not satisfied with it. We have until next week to determine whether there will be an appeal against it. The matter is causing me a great deal of concern because this type of award could be applied right through the industry. This award means that today a Qantas cabin crew member is receiving, in the main, a minimum of 51,000 a year more than a cabin crew member with any other airline in the world, and that is even taking into consideration Pan American Airways and converting United Stales dollars into Australian currency. We are concerned about it, but at this stage I am not at liberty to give the honourable member an answer to the whole of his question. However, I join with him in expressing concern at the way things are going 
 I was listening to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  when he made his opening remarks. I listened to them with some interest because I have a very clear recollection of what happened some months ago. I admit misunderstanding the question to which he referred. As he said, I did correct my answer later during the adjournment debate that night and gave him the facts. As a result of the information I gave to the honourable member for Angas and as a result of action which has subsequently been taken, we are now in a position to export oranges to New Zealand. As the honourable member said in his opening remarks tonight, a load of oranges is on board the 'Australian Endeavour'. Unfortunately, the ship has been delayed as a result of a stoppage by the Institute of Marine and Power Engineers. 
Several factors have to be taken into consideration in relation to this matter. First, for 23 years the Party of which the honourable member for Angas is a member, was in gov ernment. For 23 years that Government could not solve the problem of the Australia-New Zealand trade. In 23 years it could not do a thing about it. That Government could not get into New Zealand any Australian ships carrying Australian cargo. In the short time of 15 months we have been able to unlock the door. We now have an agreement with the New Zealand Government and the only thing stopping us from putting 2 ships into that trade immediately is that we cannot get 2 ships. The New Zealand unions are quite happy to handle the 'Australian Endeavour', the 'Australian Exporter' and any other Australian ships that might be in a position to carry Australian trade to New Zealand. So, quite frankly, I do not know what the honourable member is bellyaching about. 
I think the honourable member is just bitching for the sake of bitching. Let us be quite clear on one point: We have done the job. The Opposition parties did nothing about it for 23 years. The previous Government was an absolute and utter flop. Let honourable members opposite face up to the facts. When the Union Steamship Company of New Zealand Ltd started to blackmail you and screw you, we came to assistance of the growers. That is what we will continue to do. We will give the grower the assistance he needs. The shipment of oranges to which the honourable member for Angas has referred would have been in New Zealand by now but for the engineers' strike. What was the Opposition's solution to the problem? Some of the Opposition's bright boys said: 'Let us bring in the Navy'. What would we achieve by bringing in the Navy? To start with, who will load the ship? Who will unload the ship? Having got somebody to load it and somebody to unload it, what do you do at the other end with what has been loaded or unloaded, as the case may be? It is just so much poppycock that honourable members opposite go on with. How many times in 23 years did the Opposition when in office bring the Navy in when there was a stoppage? The answer is the same number of times as we will bring it in. Honourable members opposite should face up to the facts. That is what they should do instead of coming in here trying to play politics. That is what they are trying to do in relation to this question tonight. The facts are that we will do all that we can to assist growers as we have done in the past. 
The shipment is on the 'Australian Endeavour'. I know the problem of the goods remaining too long in refrigeration. The shipment will be spoilt. I know that, and the growers have my sympathy. If there were any way 1 could get it to its destination quicker, I would. But there was no way around the dispute that existed at that time, other than complete and total capitulation, and that was not on. Was the honourable member advocating that the Government should have conceded all the points to them? From our point of view the situation is that we will help the growers wherever we can. The 'Australian Endeavour' will continue to be available to carry these shipments to New Zealand as will other ships in the Australian trade. I say this to the honourable member: Stop playing politics. Let us all work together as .best we can. 
Maybe the honourable member can tell me. 
The honourable member for Angas is the bright boy who knew all the answers. We have given him some answers. On the night when I replied to the honourable member on the adjournment I told him what to do and what the growers should do. They did that and my suggestion bore fruit, did it not? 
Right. Unfortunately, the engineers decided to pull a dispute at the same time. That was the unfortunate part about the matter, otherwise it would have been 100 per cent successful. I am confident that now this circumstance is out of the road the shipments will go through as normal. This is the result of a number of things which have been done by this Government. It has solved the dispute which existed between the New Zealand unions and the Australian maritime industry. Things are going all right. The honourable member is just unlucky on this occasion. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with the Roads Grants Bill and the Transport (Planning and Research) Bill, makes provision for financial assistance to the States for road construction and main tenance and transport planning and research totalling SI, 126m over the next 3 years, 1974/75-1976/77. The delay in the introduction of this legislation was due to the. double dissolution which, as the honourable gentlemen opposite know, was not of the Government's making. These 3 Bills will provide for the continuation of financial assistance previously provided or to be provided under a number of programs including: The 1969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act; the 1968 States (Beef Cattle Roads) Act; the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill 1974; the traffic engineering and road safety improvement programs; and specific assistance to South Australia to assist in sealing the Eyre Highway. The Government's proposal is to restrict the period of financial assistance provided in these Acts to 3 years rather than 5 years, as has been the practice under previous CAR arrangements. The reason for this is that over the next 18 months we shall be working towards rationalising our separate road and urban transport assistance measures into a closely co-ordinated and integrated set of arrangements. It is intended to legislate further in about 18 months time to give effect to the new set of integrated transport arrangements. This will provide the States with about 18 months lead time for forward planning pending the commencement of the legislation and will be an important step in the introduction of a rolling program for transport development. 
During its consideration of the new road arrangements the Government had before it the Bureau of Roads 'Report on Roads in Australia - 1973'. As honourable members will recall I tabled this report in the Parliament on 12 December last. Comments on the report were subsequently obtained from the States at a meeting of Highway Ministers in Sydney earlier in the year and from representatives of State Local Government Associations and the parent body. The report having been made public, many local government authorities, motoring bodies, other organisations and individuals took advantage of the opportunity to provide their views on it. This is the first time that an Australian Government has sought and obtained the views of a widespread sector of the community interested in roads. It has been an especially important exercise in open government which the previous Government might well have engaged in when finalising previous road arrangements. 
The Bureau's report recommended the provision of financial assistance to the States of SI, 345m over the next 3 years and a number of major new initiatives which I shall come to at a later stage. The Government has decided to provide grants of SI, 126m for road construction and maintenance and transport planning and research over the next 3 years. This figure of $l,126m represents a significant increase of 30 per cent over the $870m provided for the various forms of road assistance in the previous 3 years. The Government in deciding the amount of road finance had to take account of its proposed commitments for other major transport initiatives, including urban public transport and the recently completed agreements for new railways joining Adelaide to the standard gauge railway and Tarcoola to Alice Springs. We also had to take account of our commitments to other programs of high priority such as education, health and social welfare and above all of the general state of the economy. 
The 3 Bills together will provide financial assistance of $350m in 1974-75, $369m in 1975-76 and S407m in 1976-77. The States will receive the following allocations over the next 3 year period: 

<graphic href="089131197407184_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

A further Slim is provided under the Transport Planning and Research Bill for distribution according to the merit of projects submitted. 
I now want to turn specifically to the National Roads Bill which is a major milestone in the history of Australian Government road assistance to the States. Previous governments have repeatedly refused to accept the need to do something specific to upgrade major roads of national importance to acceptable standards. As I have said on many occasions Australia's major highway, The Hume Highway between Sydney and Melbourne, is in a deplorable condition. Other major highways are similarly placed. For example, a National Highways Study Team, composed of Australian and State Government officials, has carried out a substantial study of Australia's major arterial roads. It found that, in 1972, the Pacific, New 
England, Hume and Princes Highways in New South Wales, the Hume, Princes East and Western Highways in Victoria, the Bruce, Warrego, Landsborough, Barkly and Flinders Highways in Queensland, the Eyre and Stuart Highways in South Australia, the Great Northern Highway in Western Australia, the Midland, Bass and Tamar Highways in Tasmania, the Stuart Highway in the Northern Territory were significantly deficient. 
Road sections were considered deficient if one or more of the following conditions existed or would exist in the year under consideration: Surface deficiency; width deficiency; structural deficiency; and alignment or curve deficiency. The Study Team in looking at a system of national roads substantially similar to the system eventually recommended by the Bureau found that many miles had one or more of the deficiencies I have just mentioned. Then on the assumption that no improvements were undertaken they worked out the number of miles that would be deficient by 1979 and 1989. respectively. The following table expresses the Study Team's findings in regard to the number of deficient miles in the system as a percentage of the total number of miles in the system: 
This Government is determined that the situation which I have outlined must change and has decided to adopt the Bureau of Roads' recommendation to develop a national roads system. The Bureau of Roads in its report concluded that States tended to allocate road finance to all areas of the States and consequently it was difficult for the States to assemble the large resources to construct long segments of main arterial roads joining major centres. We agree with this conclusion. It should be obvious to any thinking person that without a major initiative by the Australian Government current State policies will continue and major arterial roads will still be neglected. 
The Bureau envisaged the Australian Government financing 80 per cent of the cost of developing and maintaining the system with the States supplying the balance. The Government, however, has decided that the task is of such national importance to justify the Australian Government taking full responsibility for the cost, thus freeing the States to use their own sources of finance for the construction of other roads covered by the Road Grants Bill. In order that a substantial start may be made on developing and maintaining the system it is proposed to provide S400m over the 3 year period, with SI 03m being provided in 1974-75, S130m in 1975-76 and S167m in 1976-77. This is the measure of the Government's determination to ensure that a significant start is made to arrest the continuing deterioration in the important roads of this nation. 
The Bill provides for the following roads to be included in the system as national highways, that is, those roads which in the opinion of the Minister constitute the principal road between: Two or more State capital cities; a State capital city and Canberra; a State capital city and Darwin; Brisbane and Cairns; and Hobart and Burnie; together with other roads which the Minister considers justify inclusion on the basis of their national importance. The Government has also decided that the national roads system should include roads or proposed roads which facilitate, or if built, would facilitate the development of trade and commerce with other countries and among the States. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
These are referred to in the legislation as 'export roads' and 'major commercial roads'. These would generally be intrastate roads serving seaports and airports in bath urban and rural areas. When this Bill comes into operation it is my intention to declare as national highways a series of roads which would give effect to that system recommended on page 158 of the Bureau of Roads' report on roads in Australia, 1973. In brief these roads include: The Hume Highway between Sydney and Melbourne; a road between Brisbane and Sydney; a road between Brisbane and Cairns; the portion within the State of a road between Brisbane and Darwin via Mt Isa; a road between Melbourne and Adelaide; a road between Adelaide, and Perth; the portion within the State of a road between Adelaide and Darwin; the portion within the State of a road between Perth and Darwin via Port Hedland; and a road between Hobart and Burnie. 
This system will directly serve over 150 towns with populations exceeding 2,000 people and a total urban population of 9.5 million, or about 75 per cent of Australia's population. In 1972 the system carried about 4,000 million vehicle miles of travel. Preliminary discussions have been held with the  States  with a view to identifying roads which might be declared as export roads and major commercial roads. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the then Acting Premier of New South Wales canvassing, in particular, the possibility of including access roads to the new Botany Bay port complex in these categories. We look forward with anticipation to a positive response from the State to this suggestion. 
Periodicaly the national roads system will be reviewed with a view to determining whether new roads might be added. However, I venture a word of caution. The initial national highways which I propose to declare could take upward of about 10 years to develop to acceptable standards. The system comprises about 9,800 miles of road. About 100 miles of these roads are divided highways. Nearly 6,600 miles of roads have single carriageways with a sealed surface. The remaining 3,100 miles are unsealed. About 70 per cent of the system requires construction or reconstruction. It is therefore essential that an intensive effort be made to develop the initial system. The inclusion of additional roads in any number would be counter-productive and lead to a dissipation of effort similar to the present circumstances. 
I would also point out that the ultimate routes of some national highways are yet to be determined. It is envisaged that a number of corridor studies will be necessary to determine the location of some parts of roads forming part of a national highway. As honourable members may be aware, the Australian Government has already taken the initiative to have a joint investigation made of a new route between Goulburn and Albury. The New South Wales Government has agreed to the study. I myself favour a more direct route via Wee Jasper, Tumut and Batlow and coming closer to the Australian Capital Territory. Such a road would provide a more direct link between Sydney and Melbourne and provide a considerable shortening of the road distance between Canberra and the new growth centre of Albury-Wodonga. The outcome of these investigations on the Goulburn-Albury route is expected to be known in about 6 months time. If a road on the new route is found to be feasible and desirable every effort will be made to have a substantive start made on the road during the life of this Act. 
Other corridor studies are being considered. In this context the road between Port Augusta and Alice Springs will have a high priority. This road currently deviates to the south of the Woomera rocket range. A more direct route may be preferable. Other corridor studies that may be desirable include those for: A Newcastle by-pass; the road from Perth to East of Norseman - alternative routes are available which could save considerable distances - the approaches to Hobart, the location of which could influence the location of the highway north of the city; Broome in Western Australia to Katherine in the Northern Territory; and Camooweal in Queensland to Daly  Waters in the Northern Territory. The Australian Government is to be responsible for the strategic planning of the national roads system. Given the Australian Government's acceptance of the responsibility for fully financing the development and maintenance of the system this approach is fully justified. Furthermore, it is the only reliable way of ensuring that national objectives are taken fully into account. 
Practical expression is given to the Australian Government's intention to be responsible for strategic planning in clause 5 of the Bill. Provision is made there for the Minister for Transport, after consultation with the States, to notify to the States details of works on the system which the Australian Government believes to be necessary, the order in which such works should be carried out and the standards of construction and maintenance to apply. The States will then design the projects and submit them to the Australian Government for approval. Each year the States will prepare annual programs of construction and maintenance for approval. These programs can be modified by the Minister before approving them. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development will have the right to concur in the approval of any projects undertaken in the area of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre and such other growth centres as are declared for the purpose of this Act. 
The development of a national roads system will bring with it major benefits to motorists using it. Very importantly, these roads will incorporate on a systematic basis accepted features of safety design. Safety will be enhanced not only for the motorists using the system, but also for the residents of those centres in which the hazards from heavy fast moving through traffic will be reduced. These benefits will arise from reduction in the likelihood of accidents and their severity. The design standards which will be examined for incorporation in the national highways system will include good sight distances, greater uniformity of standards, particularly the absence of dangerous curves and other unexpected hazards, the elimination of roadside objects, control of access and appropriate pavement markings and delineation. Where a 4 lane divided road with wide medians is provided, this will lead to a significant reduction in head-on collisions, side impacts and running into fixed objects. 
Accident rates are markedly affected by the standard of the road. We know that in 1970 there were 3.2 accidents per million vehicle miles on New South Wales rural highways while the comparable rate on the SydneyNewcastle expressway was 1.4 accidents per million vehicle miles. On the Hume Highway in 1971-72 there were 838 casualty accidents. I expect this number will be significantly reduced, as much as by half, where the existing 2-lane sections of this road are replaced by a 4-lane divided highway. 
Finally I want to stress that the selection of roads eligible for inclusion in this scheme has been based on the possibility that the State roads included in this scheme might in the future be constructed, at least in part, by the Australian Government itself. Legal advice indicates that constitutional authority exists to support Australian Government construction of many, if not most, of the roads to be included in this scheme. This will be explored further. One cannot rule out the possibility that in the longer term the appropriate course to follow would be for the Australian Government to be responsible in every way forthe conduct of the national roads system provided for in this Bill. On that final note I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Roads Grants Bill 1974 is to provide $700m in financial assistance over the period 1974-75 to 1976-77 for the construction of rural arterial roads, developmental roads, rural local roads, minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements, urban arterial roads, urban local roads, and beef roads. Assistance for rural local roads, as in the past, will also include maintenance. As honourable members will appreciate from the categories of roads which I have outlined, the opportunity has been taken to consolidate in this Bill assistance previously provided under the 1969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, assistance for beef roads and the continued provision of assistance for minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table indicating how the States will benefit from the $700m. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a  second lime. 
This Bill complements the National Roads Bill and the Roads Grants Bill 1974 which I previously introduced into the House. 1 foreshadowed the introduction of this Bill when I recently introduced the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill 1974. At that time I explained that that Bill only allocated funds for 1973-74 and was intended to operate retrospectively to authorise reimbursements for the States in respect of projects which they had initiated in anticipation of that legislation being passed before the end of the 1973-74 financial year. The Bill authorises expenditure over the next 3 years, 1974-75 to 1976-77, of $26m on grants to the States for research and planning associated with roads and urban public transport. Under the terms of the Bill the Australian Government, will meet two-thirds of the cost of approved studies. 
As I have indicated on previous occasions, the intention of the Australian Government is to introduce legislation in about 18 months time providing financial assistance to the States for transport generally in place of separate programs of assistance for various modes. In other words, our intention is to ensure that the whole question of transport is dealt with as an entity with each mode playing its proper part in the transport task. In respect of planning and research, however, it is possible immediately to take the step of ensuring that road projects are considered in relation to their priority with urban public transport projects and vice versa. To this end this Bill covers planning and research for both roads and urban public transport. This is most appropriate and will be a step towards greater flexibility in the use of available transport funds in the area of greatest need. My Government took immediate steps when it came to office to draw together its various transport responsibilities into one department and under one minister. This Bill will, I hope, be tangible evidence to the States of our policy for integrated transport  development and will assist them in a similar aim. 
Much planning and research needs to be done to facilitate the development of the new transport initiatives of this Government and we are prepared to assist with a significant allocation of money to help the States in the huge task of updating Australia's transport. There is a major need for more sophisticated planning and research in Australia in regard to all transport modes. The provision of assistance under this Act will be directed towards developing in the States more comprehensive planning processes than hitherto existed. There is also a need to look at the scope for rationalising our research and planning in Australia, exchanging information between the various authorities and developing data and information for use by interested research bodies. 
Road research is an area where much needs to be done. Research into the physical attributes of various types of pavements and materials used for construction needs to be continuously developed along with research into road structures. This Government will endeavour to ensure that new areas of research into roads and road transport are developed. The financial assistance provided under this Bill will also be available to the States for use on road safety research. As honourable members will be aware, the Australian Government has decided to establish its own road safety authority to extend research into this important area. However, the provisions of tihs Bill recognise that there will still be a very significant role for the States also. 
The inclusion of research and planning for roads and urban public transport in the one Bill is a logical step from many viewpoints. Much of urban public transport, especially buses and taxis, runs on roads. Furthermore road based public transport needs to be closely co-ordinated with the urban train and ferry systems. It is therefore appropriate that planning and research projects for both these areas be treated in the one Bill and that proposed projects impinging on these areas be considered together. This can only add to the understanding of the various transport modes, their relative merits and the interaction between them. This Government places considerable importance on the need to restore the place of urban public transport as a means of transporting people, especially in urban areas. Much therefore needs to be done in the way of research into new technologies, the planning of their introduction into service in Australia and the development of management techniques required to facilitate these developments. 
I have mentioned previously in this House the necessity for studies to be undertaken into fare structures including the possibility of zoned fares, flat fare charges or a one fare structure for all modes. In addition, the applicability of technological advances, such as personal rapid transport, to our Australian conditions needs to be examined. The Australian Government has commenced some of this work with its own resources and  members  will recall my mention of the development of the Australian urban passenger train and of similar proposals for the development of new and improved urban buses. This Bill will assist the States in similar projects and enable them to investigate, for instance, the increased use of modern water transport in some cities, the use of special priority systems for buses and many other projects that will contribute to  an  improved quality of life for the majority of Australians dependent on public transport in our major cities. 
The Bill provides for a basic allocation of 
SI 5m among the States for expenditure on both road and urban public transport planning and research. Subject to the submission of acceptable projects a State can look forward to receiving the basic entitlement. In addition to this money the States will be able to submit projects for consideration beyond their basic entitlement. The Bill provides for additional assistance of Slim which has not been allocated between States. This will give some flexibility to the arrangements and allow projects competing for these funds to be judged on their merits. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
the main causes of the present high level of the road toll in Australia; 
the most effective means of achieving greater road safety in Australia; 
the particular aspects of the problem to which those concerned with road safety could most advantageously direct their efforts, and 
the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia in terms of - 
material damage, 
loss of man hours and earning capacity, and 
cost of treatment of accident victims. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consists of seven members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That four members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitutes a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the House of Representatives Select Committees on Road Safety appointed in previous Parliaments. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
Honourable members will recall that during the life of the previous Parliament we saw the tabling of 2 important reports from the Select Committee on Road Safety. The first of these was entitled 'Road Safety: A National Authority, The Constitutional Position, Statistical Needs'. This was presented in September last. The second report entitled 'Road Safety: Roads and their Environment' was presented on the last day of the previous Parliament. It is important to note that the Government took immediate action arising from the recommendations of the first report in announcing the decision to establish a national authority on road safety and standards. This body is to work with the States to  achieve more effective and co-ordinated action in road safety at the national level than has been possible in the past. In March of this year a seminar on road accident information was conducted by my Department, on behalf of the expert group on road safety, my specialist advisory body in this field. The seminar was planned to stimulate the interchange of ideas between representatives of police, road and traffic authorities, licensing and registration authorities, road safety experts and government officers to focus attention on how accident data and related information can be used to reduce the toll of death and inquiry on the roads. The Committee's first report had, of course, previously highlighted the importance of good information in developing measures for road safety. 
The Government is glad to have the Select Committee's second report available at this time. The physical nature of the road system and the roadside have an important bearing on both the occurrence and the severity of accidents. I would hope that the Select Committee's report will be the subject of much greater attention than was possible at the time it was presented. Road safety is a nonpolitical issue of great and continuing importance to the Australian community. Despite the encouraging reduction in deaths from road accidents from their peak of 3,798 in 1970, to 3,590 in 1971 and 3,422 in 1972, the efforts towards improvement must be continued, particularly as we are now seeing a rise in fatalities once more.. In 1973, 3,679 people were killed on Australia's roads. The means must be found to ensure that fatalities do not again reach the record levels of 1970. The work of the Select Committee forms an important part of the national effort against the road toll. It provides interested persons and organisations and the experts in the field with an opportunity to present their views before an independent inquiry and to have their ideas subjected to impartial scrutiny. It is proposed that the Committee be limited in its operation to concluding those references which were before it at the time of the double dissolution. I commend to honourable members the proposal to re-appoint the Select Committee on Road Safety. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report entitled 'Consumer Preferences in Urban Rail Carriage Design - Results of a Survey conducted in Brisbane during May and June 1973' which is dated March 1974. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. 
This Bill proposes an increase of $5 to $31 a week in the rate of pension payable to the widows pensioned under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The number of widows involved is only 51 and the cost of the increase is included in the amount mentioned in the second reading speech on the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1974. The Bill provides that the increase will be payable from the first pension pay-day after the Bill receives royal assent. It is my pleasure to commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
It is perfectly true that maritime unions have placed bans on Greek ships because of the things that the Greek Government - or should I call it the Greek junta - has been doing in Greece. 
And in Cyprus, as the Prime Minister reminds me. We have done nothing about it, and what is more I do not intend doing anything about it. The thing to do is to have Australian wheat exports carried in ships other than Greek ships. Other ships are available and wheat exporters should endeavour to get away from Greek ships. We are doing what the previous Government did when similar bans were imposed. 
Singapore Airlines currently operates 2 Boeing 747 and 5 Boeing 707 services weekly to the east coast of Australia as well as 3 Boeing 707 services weekly to Perth. We agreed to this capacity last year but on the condition that Singapore Airlines Ltd would not seek further increases in 1974-75. Despite this, Singapore Airlines is now seeking to increase its capacity by 50 per cent between now and next April, by a further 25 per cent in 1975-76 and by a further 30 per cent in 1976-77. Qantas Airways Ltd rejected this proposal because the capacity sought is far in excess of the traffic available between Australia and Singapore, and is clearly designed to carry Australia-Europe traffic, to which Singapore Airlines has no primary entitlement. 
The airline has filed its proposed schedule with the Department of Transport which deferred it pending further airlines talks. Qantas has been steadily reducing its dependence on Singapore as the major Asian stopping point on its route to Europe. It now has services through Bombay and Bangkok. A new commercial agreement with Malaysian Airline System announced on Tuesday gives it the alternative of Kuala Lumpur as well. Qantas is therefore in a position where, if necessary, it can move most or even all of its long haul services out of Singapore and have a small number of terminating flights purely for local traffic. This would be the last resort if the Singapore Government terminated the present air services agreement because of Australia's denial of extra capacity to Singapore Airlines. If the new agreement were negotiated purely on the basis of Australia-Singapore traffic it would mean a substantial reduction in services that are at present held by Singapore Airlines. We will be resuming talks with the airline on Friday. We hope that at that meeting we will be able to work out an amicable arrangement whereby both airlines can get a reasonable return and operation out of the traffic which is available and which each generates. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on liquefied petroleum gas as a motor vehicle fuel dated April 1974. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill 1974 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It is true that during the election campaign I made an announcement that I would recommend to the Government that we do not proceed with the Galston development. The honourable member would be well and truly aware of that factor. That is the present position. A considerable amount has been done in alleviating noise problems in areas near the Sydney Airport. The Government has rigidly enforced the curfews under which aircraft are not permitted to operate into Sydney after 11 p.m. or before 6 a.m. This is something which the honourable member's Party when in government was not prepared to enforce. It allowed aircraft to operate after 11 p.m. whenever required by the airlines. This caused considerable discomfort to the people nearby. In this respect alone the Government has considerably reduced the noise level. 
With respect to the running of engines in the early hours of the morning, when Qantas Airways Ltd blatantly breached the understanding concerning the testing of aircraft engines a circular letter was sent to Qantas, to Trans-Australia Airlines and to Ansett Airlines of Australia informing them what penalties would be imposed if they breached the morning curfew on the testing of engines. They appreciate the position and the result is that engine testing in the early hours has been almost eliminated. The domestic airlines have been asked to introduce at least 12 months earlier than they planned the wide bodied jets which will have 2 effects. Firstly, they are much quieter than existing aircraft which are operating in Australia and, secondly, their introduction will reduce by half the frequency of aircraft operations. The Government has done much much more than the previous Government would have had the intestinal fortitude to do. 
No inquiry has been conducted. In fact, the decision was made only last night to terminate the subsidy - 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The fact of the matter is that the statement which the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has endeavoured to read into Hansard in his explanation of what happened after the blunder he made early in the election campaign of what the Opposition was going to do to pay off- 
I have been misrepresented in respect of the claim that what the Leader of the Country Party put forward originally would cost 20c. What he said originally would have cost 20c. He said that after the blunder was made. That was to have been the pay-off for the- 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) - I wish to make a further personal explanation. 
 They have made statements 
The honourable gentleman would be aware that my predecessor had the same trouble with personal explanations. He made a statement concerning the farcical situation which was being reached in the House every day when people were wanting to get propaganda over the radio, in question time in particular. It has also been a point, particularly on a Wednesday, to take a point of order so that a question would be erased from the rebroadcast of that particular night. We know all of these points as well as everybody else does. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Financial and Statistical Bulletin of the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30 June 1973. This Bulletin is to supplement the annual report which was tabled in the House on 27 September 1973. 
The Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. The whole-- 
Will you shut up, you oaf. 
We are all aware of the implications of the policy that was announced by the Leader of the Country Party during the early stages of the election campaign in March and the effects that  it  would have had on inflation in Australia. 
 I thank the Leader of the Opposition for the confidence he has expressed in the Australian Labor Party Government and the clear assurance that it will be the Government for the next 5 years and for many years after. I would be delighted to be in a position to indicate to him that there would not be any increases in the price of crude oil, but my crystal ball is not operating too well today as I am sure his is not. The question that was asked the honourable mem'ber for Port Adelaide was directly as to what would have been the effect on the Australian economy and Qantas Airways Ltd if crude oil prices in Australia had been brought up to world parity as was advocated by the Australian Country Party in the recent election campaign. 
I do not propose to speak on all these amendments. I assure the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  that I have had a- very full breakfast and a reasonable night's sleep and that 1 am not in a bad state of mind; nor was I last night when I made a very strong and impassioned speech to the Committee in support of what the Government is doing. I stated clearly my position and the Governments position on the amendments. I have received a number of telegrams - 13 all told. I congratulate the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  on the excellent work which he has done in organising six of them. I am giving him credit for it. I do not know whether I am doing him justice. I have received 10 telegrams, all - I underline 'all' - from country shires. There is none from a city council. Not one city council has expressed one word of opposition to or protest against our plan. Not one of the 10 shire councils, six of which are either in or adjacent to and linked to the electorate of Maranoa, has expressed condemnation or criticism of the Government's action in requiring that the States and local government do certain things. 
All are expressing disapproval and disappointment that their allocations could possibly be reduced. Let us get the picture very clear. I have received 10 telegrams expressing no objection to this alleged centralised control, but I believe recognising that this Government is endeavouring to do something positive and constructive about transport in the interests of Australians. I have received 3 telegrams which are objecting to centralised control. They come from Victoria. It is interesting that the final sentence of one of the telegrams reads: 
Shire supports retention of existing supervisory procedures of Victorian Country Roads Board. 
That shire council does not mind centralised government supervision of the work it is doing. Yesterday I agreed to meet a former  president  of the Australian Shires Association who comes from Queensland. I will not name the gentleman as I do not have his approval to do so. One of the members of the Country Party, at very short notice, asked me whether I would meet this gentleman. I told him I would and we fixed a time. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and I set aside some time and met and talked with him. We explained what the Government's objectives were and what we were proposing to do. We said that more money should be available from the States to supplement the incomes of local government because this Government was not proposing under this legislation to require the States to make contributions to certain roads, namely, a national highway system. When we explain the situation to people similar to that gentleman there is a completely and totally different understanding. 
I had the benefit of 12 years experience in local government before I entered this Parliament. I served for a period as Lord Mayor of the city of Newcastle and I know a little about the workings of the operations of local government. Each year local government bodies prepare a works list. I notice that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  is in the chamber. He is a former Senior Vice  President  of the New South Wales Local Government Association and I am certain that he will agree that it is customary each year for a council to prepare a works program. This has to be done. Otherwise councils would not be able to prepare their budgets. If councils do not prepare a works program they cannot determine what their estimates will be or what sort of rates they will have to levy. That is the position of local government organisations. What is wrong with their making those works programs available to us? We are a government which is keenly interested in making money available for the development of roads by local government and State governments and for the roads between our States which the national government has a responsibility to keep at a required standard for trade and commerce. Likewise we are interested in making money available for the development of roads so that at least we can get rid of some of the terrific bottlenecks that exist around our ports, both sea and air. 
Honourable members know of the time that can be wasted in travelling from Sydney to its airport or from Brisbane to its airport. If honourable members intend travelling at around peak traffic time and intend catching the 5 o'clock plane out of Sydney or Brisbane the transport officers say that they had better be ready at least an hour before the plane is due to leave. If honourable members travel in the off-peak period it will take them from 15 to 20 minutes for the same journey. We want to provide more access. We want to be the people who decide. It is our responsibility to ensure that our air and sea ports can operate efficiently. Monstrous bottlenecks exist around Sydney. At present shipping companies are talking about imposing an 18 per cent surcharge on Australian freights that go through Sydney. One of the major contributing factors to these increased costs is the terrible road system around Sydney airport. This Government is aware of these facts. The Prime Minister wrote to the then Acting Premier,  Sir Charles  Cutler, seeking his approval for a joint study into a road system which will link with the new Botany Bay terminal. 
Shipping freight costs in and out of Australia are the responsibility of this Government. If we have an inefficient road system, obviously the people concerned with the transportation of our commodities must be required and must be entitled to increase freight charges, particularly if we are responsible for contributing factors. These are facts that require the consideration of this Parliament. This is the basis of what we are doing as far as transport is concerned in Australia. Therefore I ask honourable members to note the telegrams of congratulations to the honourable member for Maranoa on his organisation of the protests but unfortunately they all came in at the one time. 
The amendments proposed by the honourable member for Gippsland seek, in the main, to remove the powers proposed toy the Australian Government to approve programs of road works. The amendments also seek to remove any reference to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Northern Development, to frustrate our provisions for representation on State bodies concerned with policy and planning of roads, and to remove the delegation of some ministerial powers to members of the Australian Public Service. 
 Mr Chairman,  I would like to correct one statement I made in relation to the previous clause. I said then that New South Wales had not applied for any grants in advance. Treasury has since advised me that New South Wales has applied. I just want to make that point clear. It was interesting to listen to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  He might at least remain in the chamber for a moment. 
He is now in the chamber. 
For heavens sake, shut up. 
We have just listened to a speech by the right honourable 
Leader of the Opposition - I must not forget to say 'right honourable' - who attempted to rile me, to malign me, by calling me a czar, a commissar and God knows what. When I was a little boy that would really have hurt me. I do not think that he has ever grown out of the stage of being a little boy and calling people names. So if you would, Billy, please come in here and act like a man. 
I hope that the right honourable Leader of the Opposition will grow up, stop playing childish pranks, calling people names, poking out his tongue and throwing stones. I do not take any notice of it. So let us get on and deal with the facts of the Bill. These grants are made under section 96 of the Constitution. There is nothing original about that. Under section 96 the Australian Government requires the State government or local government authority to do certain things. When honourable members opposite were in government time and time again they made grants under section 96 and laid down the conditions under which that money was allocated. That is all the Government is doing in this case. It is laying down conditions under which it is prepared to make grants available to the States. There is nothing original about that. 
The Bill says that the Minister may notify the States, and then it goes on. I do not propose to waste time reading the Bill. The facts are that the Government may require tho States to do certain things. It may require them to make certain information available to the Minister. I have the power to delegate certain authority to officers in my Department. Why do not honourable members opposite learn what is happening in regard to roads today and just what the procedures are? The power to delegate authority which is contained in this Bill is no different from that under which authority ? conferred on any road authority, whether it be a Department of Main Roads, a Main Roads Board, a Country Roads Board or some other such thing. Power is delegated to all these bodies. It is the customary thing. I do not want to spend the rest of my time as Minister signing letters so that things can be done, a road can be constructed, a piece of equipment can be bought or something like that. 
Delegation of power is the standard procedure in a public service. We are dealing with responsible men to whom power has been delegated. This is being done every day of the week by State governments and local government authorities. What is so terrible about that? A lot of honourable members opposite have had experience in local government. How many of them have objected to that procedure? According to them it is good for a State government or for a local government but it is wrong for an Australian Government. Duplication was allowed, approved, authorised by the former Government. When the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was Minister for Shipping and Transport he gave authority to public servants to approve single voyage permits. So did his predecessor. In fact, if I remember rightly, this procedure carried over from the time the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was Minister for Shipping and Transport until my time as Minister. I had to cancel the authorisation that these former Ministers had given to public servants. Who are the regional directors in Victoria, New South Wales and the other States who had the authority? Did they abuse it? Silence is the stern reply. Honourable members opposite know full well that those men did not abuse it and that they will not abuse any authority entrusted to them under this proposal any more than will public servants who have been delegated power by a State government or a local government authority. I have confidence in those men. I know that my predecessor as Minister likewise had confidence in people, because the facts are that he delegated authority to other people. We are still delegating power to public servants to approve things. There is nothing original in the question of delegating power. 
Under this Bill S 1,1 15m is to be allocated to the States compared with an allocation of $803m for the last 3 years of the 1969-1974 Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. I ask honourable members to work it out. 
What did the former Government do about inflation? It did nothing. It made an allocation for 5 yeans and did not increase one year's allocation to cope with the inflation that existed then. Therefore do not talk to me about what the former Government did about inflation. It did nothing. It did not increase its allocations under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. We have decided what the allocation of money will be; that is perfectly true. It is our responsibility to do that. It is our responsibility to advise the States in advance what the allocation will be for 3 years, not for 5 years, as the previous Government did. We have cut back to 3 years the period which an allocation is to cover at the request of the States. A review will be made of the position in 18 months time so we will then have a roll-over program year after year. The facts are that more money is being provided this year. We are requiring the States to do certain things but those things are in conformity with the overall policies and plans of this Government to upgroads roads and transport as a whole. 
I ask honourable members opposite to examine the roads of this country which are the results of their policies. They will see the mess the roads are in today. Look at the deplorable condition of the various highways, for instance, the Bruce Highway in Queensland. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  can outline what the condition of that road is  -  the Redex trial highway, the highway of which the Opposition is so proud, the highway in relation to which the Opposition wants the States to retain the authority to determine how much money should be spent. The present Government will put money into this highway and will make it a decent road. Hundreds of people lose their lives in this country every year because of the deplorable condition of roads. Our objective is to see that the condition of roads does not cause loss of life. If the members of the Opposition are opposed to the saving of lives by building better roads, let them vote against the amendment, but that will not do them any good. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
-I will speak briefly. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is concerned about the delegation of power. I give a simple explanation of delegation of power and how it works and how it is so evil to delegate power to Australian public servants. Today the Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and I made an announcement following representations made to us by the Queensland Commissioner of Main Roads that we do something about the Burke Highway. We have issued a statement today to the effect that we are prepared to accept full responsibility for the Burke Highway. This decision was made by us on the basis of representations of a Queensland public servant. How evil this provision is! 
Amendment negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment, report adopted. 
This Bill involves the old argument of whether the Australian Government should accept responsibility firstly, for a national highway system. There is only one thing wrong with what has been said. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  wants us to reach agreement with the States. Let me say firstly that there will be continuing discussion with the States on the locations of national highways- 
I ask the honourable member to let me finish. If I may say so, we are dealing with national highways. We will be holding discussions with the States. Already I have given the honourable member 2 examples. The first one involves the suggestion we are making for a new highway which will come through from Collector close to Canberra and go on to Tumut. This is an Australian government project. We will be paying the full cost of it. We will co-operate with the State and we are seeking its joint consultation. The other project which I outlined earlier is the access road to Botany Bay. There will be joint consultation. We are prepared to go on doing this. So it is a question of whether we should have the right to make the final decision. If the States want to do so, they can object. If I am required to reach an agreement with the States and if they object so that we cannot get agreement, we can run into all sorts of loopholes. There can be gaps in highway development. We want to get away from that. We are prepared to accept our responsibility by deciding where the roads shall go. We are prepared to talk to the States about the matter. We are not prepared to be tied down. 
Once again we come back to the old question of delegation of powers. We are doing what has been done in every Act as far as roads are concerned in every State. In all States the Minister does not retain total power. He has the right at any point to intervene and to make decisions but, in the main, he delegates power. As I said a moment ago, I have here a Press release which the Minister for Northern Development and myself released today. It is about representations made to this Government by the Queensland Commissioner for Main Roads. That is delegated power. The Queensland Minister did not write to us. His Commissioner for Main Roads did. The same situation applies to all other States. There is nothing sinister, objectionable or obnoxious about this as far as I am concerned. When a Minister wants to intervene he is at liberty to do so. I ask honourable members to imagine for a moment what would happen if a member of my Department tried to ride roughshod over some State Minister. Do honourable members not think that that Minister would immediately make representations to me or whoever may be the Minister for Transport claiming that his State was getting a rough deal? So at any time any delegated power is abused it is always subject to cancellation at a moment's notice if a Minister intervenes. Again I give an example of delegated power. What are the delegated powers and responsibilities of the Director-General of Civil Aviation? My God, he really has powers delegated to him which allow him to walk on Lake Burley Griffin. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
That amendments Nos 1 and 2 be disagreed to. 
It will be recalled by honourable members that I introduced the National Roads Bill 1974 into the House of Representatives on 18 July of this year. Although the Bill was passed by the House of Representatives, 4 amendments were subsequently made to it in another place. In the interests of furthering the passage of this important legislation through the Parliament the Government is prepared to accept 2 of those amendments. I shall address myself to them at a later stage. However, the Government is not prepared to accept the first 2 amendments, which relate to the power of the Minister for Transport to declare a road an export road or a major commercial road. The amendments are to sub-clause (3) of clause 4 and to sub-clause (4) of clause 4. Those amendments, if accepted, would have the effect of requiring the Minister to obtain the agreement of a State before declaring 'export' or 'major commercial ' roads. 
Honourable members will know from a reading of the Bill that an export road is one which facilitates trade and commerce or the development of trade and commerce with other countries and that a major commercial road is one which facilitates trade and commerce or the development of trade and commerce among the States. As I understand it, the reason for these proposed amendments is because, unlike national highways which are substantially roads connecting capital cities, export and major commercial roads are usually interstate roads. Surely this reasoning does not go to the heart of the matter. 
The Government is providing 100 per cent of the finance for these roads- the Opposition is not disputing this- because it believes they are truly of a national character. Of course they are geographically located within each State, but surely the important consideration here relates to their purpose and not where they happen to be located. We are all familiar with the great need that exists for the development of these types of roads. Anyone who has travelled from the city to Sydney airport, particularly in the peak hours, will only too readily recognise the congestion that exists there. Roads to ports in many of our cities are similarly congested and thus contribute to the delay in loading and clearing cargo in these areas. 
In the second reading speech I made when I first introduced the National Roads Bill into the House of Representatives I indicated the general outline of the routes which the Government intended to designate as national highways. 1 did not, however, do that for export or major commercial roads. That is because the Government will, in fact, be consulting with the State governments on the most suitable roads for declaration. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already written to the then Acting Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler, in this respect, seeking his co-operation with regard to discussions between Australian Government Ministers and New South Wales Government Ministers on the possibility of some of the Botany Bay access roads falling within the export road category, thereby making them eligible for the whole cost of their construction and maintenance to be borne by the Australian Government. If I may,  Mr Chairman,  I would like to quote the final paragraph of a letter written on 5 June by the Prime Minister to  Sir Charles  Cutler, the then Acting Premier of New South Wales. The letter deals with things other than roads. In it the Prime Minister said: 
I also understand that  Dr Neilson's  report includes proposals for access roads to Botany Bay. As was indicated in February when the Queen opened Parliament, the Government will be bringing forward a new road program which will place emphasis on national highways, including interstate highways and export roads. Perhaps our Ministers could discuss the possibility of some of the Botany Bay access roads falling into the export road category. If they were accepted, this would then make them eligible for their whole cost to be borne by the Australian Government. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr Chairman, before lunch I was outlining the Ieasons why the Government is unable to accept Senate amendments Nos. 1 and 2. Soon after the Premiers 
Conference, highway commissioners were invited to Canberra to hear an outline of the new arrangements. Bilateral discussions then commenced immediately with each of the State highway authorities to discuss individual aspects of the new proposals. At these meetings State officers were asked for suggestions on individual roads which might be declared as export roads and major commercial roads under the proposed legislation. They have since made suggestions to my officers on these matters. 
Officers of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and my Department have had discussions with officers and local government representatives in all States on the development of urban local roads programs as follows: New South Wales, 29 July 1974; Victoria, 15 August 1974; Queensland, 16 August 1974; South Australia, 25 July 1974; Western Australia, 26 July 1974; and Tasmania, 14 August 1974. 1 think it is important that we take note of the fact that discussions also have been held with Queensland officers over differences of opinion on the alignment of the national highway between Marlborough and Sarina in Queensland which is properly known as the Bruce Highway. On this occasion I came down on the side of the Queensland Government's request. My colleague the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  put a very strong point of view. I was able to assist him on that. All of these consultations only go to prove that I am no czar, as was suggested on a previous occasion. I would prefer to be called the Fuehrer - 
-Fuehrer. It is easier to pronounce. But, all jokes aside, whilst there have been many claims from the States that the Australian Government is centralist, this is patently not true because the things we are doing are a clear indication that we are prepared to negotiate, to talk and to have discussions with the States. We have already done that. Many of these things such as conferences and discussions were undertaken long before the Senate made its amendments. I believe that this is a clear cut case of misunderstanding and probably misinterpretation of how far we wanted to go. Under the 1969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act the definition of 'urban arterial road ' reads as follows: 'Urban arterial road' means a road or a proposed road in an urban area that is for the time being declared by the Minister to be an urban arterial road, or an urban sub-arterial road, for the purposes of this Act. 
Similarly the definition of 'rural arterial road' reads: 'Rural arterial road ' means a rural road that is for the time being declared by the Minister to be a rural arterial road for the purposes of this Act. 
The Minister referred to is me. These definitions were not written into the Act by me. They were written into the Act by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the former and last Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
-They are disbelieving souls. In fact, I believe that these definitions were written in by the honourable member's predecessor, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  So all we did in drafting the Bill was to write in those things which were in previous pieces of legislation which have been acceptable to the States and which have been workable. Therefore, we thought that this was the easy way out of the situation. In the Government's view there is no difference in principle between the declaration of an 'export' road, or a 'major commercial' road and those which the Minister was able to declare without the States' agreement when the Opposition was in power. 
In summary the position is this: The Government believes 'export' and 'major commercial' roads are important in the national interest. In anticipation of the passing of the legislation we have already sought the views of the States on possible declarations of roads under these categories. All we ask is that the declaration of these roads be on the same basis as other roads already included in this Bill, that is national highways, roads covered by the Roads Grants Bill and the position under the 1969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. 
I just want to say in a couple of words that I have been misrepresented. 
-No, I do not claim that right. As to the alleged conversation between  Mr Virgo  and me, I have no recollection of the alleged words being uttered. 
-I thank the honourable member for Port Adelaide for his interjection. 
What did I say to Al Grassby? You said it was Patterson. 
-No, you said it was Patterson. 
-The facts are that there was a discussion one night- I do not know which night. It was between Geoff Virgo and me. We are very good friends. We were very good friends and we are very good friends. I do not think it is right for somebody to eavesdrop on a conversation in a parliamentary bar and then to record it in some way or another. I thought that what went on in parliamentary bars was the prerogative of the people who frequented them. 
I wish to clear up one point. We are seeking to co-operate with the States. What I am putting forward to this House today is no different from what was put forward in a prepared statement which was read on my behalf in the Senate. That statement set out in this term what we proposed to do. I believe that the Senate said it was prepared to accept my word of what I would do but it did not know who the Minister would be at some later stage. So, we have put our proposals into legislative form. 
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 disagreed to. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos 3 and 4 be agreed to. 
Sub-clause 6 as originally drafted provided for the Minister to seek the concurrence of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in respect of road works in the growth centre of Albury-Wodonga and such other places as were jointly declared for the purpose of this Act. The Senate's amendment has had the effect of precluding any future growth centres being declared along with Albury-Wodonga. Senate amendment No. 4 precludes the Minister for Urban and Regional Development delegating to an officer his power to concur in the approval of such road projects. Whilst the clause as originally drafted was a logical approach to the question of future growth centres and the delegation of the concurrence power, my colleague,  Mr Uren,  has agreed with me that we should not let the omission of these provisions stand in the way of bringing the legislation into operation as quickly as possible. It is in this spirit that we accept these amendments. 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to repeat what I said earlier when I stated that the Government was prepared to accept the amendments that the Senate made to the legislation. I think that it is important that I do this because I am certain that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has completely misunderstood what I said. Clause 6 (6), as originally drafted, provided for the Minister to undertake, in concurrence with the approval of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, road works in the growth centres of Albury-Wodonga and other such places that were so jointly declared- and I emphasise these next 6 words- 'for the purpose of this Act'. The Senate amendment has had the effect of precluding any such growth centres being declared, along with Albury-Wodonga. So that is the position for the purposes of this Act. That is all I am talking about. I am not talking about some other Act. I am talking about this measure that we are  dealing with at the moment, namely, the National Roads Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, on behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Because 
The declaration of a road as an 'export' road or a major commercial ' road is no different to declarations of National Highways, of the various categories of roads under the Roads Grants Bill 1974 and of the various categories of roads under the previous 1 969 Commonwealth Aid Roads Act where the Minister had or is proposed to have the sole right of declaration. 2. 'Export' and 'major commercial' roads being roads which facilitate or would, if built, facilitate trade and commerce, or the development of trade and commerce, with other countries and among the States come within the constitutional power of Australia. 
Motion (by  Mr Charles  Jones) agreed to: 
That the Committee's reasons be adopted. 
I move: 
That Senate's amendment No. 1 be disagreed to, and that in place thereof the following amendment be made: In clause 4, sub-clause (1), after 'may,' (second occurring) insert 'if the notice relates to a program or projects by way of the construction of urban arterial roads'. 
Honourable members will recall that I introduced the Road Grants Bill 1974 into this House on 18 July. As did the National Roads Bill, it passed this House but has been amended in another place. Eight amendments were made to the Bill and the Government is prepared to accept these amendments as they apply to all categories of roads in the Bill, with the exception of 2 amendments as they apply to urban arterial roads. The Government cannot accept that the requirements of the original clause 4, sub-clause ( 1 ) and clause 1 1 should not still apply in respect of urban arterial roads. Clause 4, sub-clause (1 ) as we now propose will enable the Minister for Transport to require a State or local government authority to submit for approval a program of  urban arterial roadworks which would include works financed from its own resources. Clause 1 1, as we now propose it, would apply only to urban arterial roads. I made it clear in a statement issued prior to the debate on this Bill in another place that clause 4 was not mandatory and would be applied only in a restricted sense. It remains the intention of the Government that the Minister's power under clause 4, sub-clause 1, should apply only to urban arterial roads. It is therefore proposed that this sub-clause be amended to give effect to this intention. 
Honourable members will know that the Australian Government is giving high priority to the objective of improving the quality of life in the cities and in particular to substantially improving public transport. The proper development of urban arterial roads is extremely important to achieving this objective because much of urban public transport, taxis and buses in particular, run on these roads. An important type of urban arterial road is the freeway. These have become the centre of controversy in every State capital city. A special report recently prepared by the Bureau of Roads identified many advantages of freeways over heavily laden arterial roads. These advantages include very significant reductions in road accidents, decreases in the operating costs of commercial and private vehicles, savings in travel time and reductions in air pollution, noise, community disruption and very substantial improvements in route times for public transport. 
On the other hand, the report found that most Australian capital cities have a radial pattern of railways and roads emanating from the centre of the city. The difficulty with this pattern is that as roads and railways approach the centre of the city the distance between them becomes less and less and the volume of traffic per lane increases. The inner areas are, as a result, polluted by noise and congestion and are dissected into areas which are too small to act as true communities. It is these latter aspects of freeway development that are a matter for considerable concern. It is a fact that enough consideration is being given to the social and environmental aspects of freeway development. People living in many inner areas of our larger cities are finding their houses uprooted for freeway development without due care and consideration being paid to their needs 
This Government will not tolerate this state of affairs. As a Government we are not prepared to agree to the States using grants for freeways which they believe will be acceptable to us, but then use their own moneys to build unacceptable freeways. If this situation is allowed to prevail many of the problems associated with future freeway planning will continue and the Australian Government will be indirectly aiding and abetting the situation. The Bureau of Roads in its report found that a number of freeways being built were unacceptable in that they did not comply with the principles of proper development of the Bureau which the Bureau defined as follows: 
In Outer Areas: 
Freeways should follow a grid pattern. They should move traffic around the built-up areas. They should provide links between sub-regional centres or system cities. 
In Middle and Outer Suburbs: 
Freeways should be encircling or bypass freeways. They should separate inter suburban traffic from local traffic. 
They should provide fast routes for goods and passenger transport to bypass inner suburbs and the  CBD 
In Inner Suburbs: 
Radial freeways should not be provided for work trips to CBD 
There may be justification for freeways in these areas for moving large volumes of traffic, particularly heavy commercial traffic, around or away from CBD or its adjacent suburbs. 

 Mr Chairman, those definitions come from the Bureau of Roads report. The Bureau included as unacceptable the future development in the inner areas of Sydney, of part of the north western freeway, the extension of the Warringah freeway to Willoughby, and the western, southern and eastern freeways. The Bureau considered that all of these should not be given priority in the road improvement programs for Sydney. In Melbourne the position in regard to inner city freeways is not so bad. The Government there, under electoral pressure before the last State elections, in inner areas removed many of the freeways that were then not acceptable. 
Turning to pollution generally, this is a matter of considerable concern to all of us. Honourable members may well ask why the evidence available is, to say the least, disturbing to anyone concerned with living conditions in our major cities. For example, average carbon monoxide levels taken over an 8-hour period in Sydney reached as high as 49 parts per million compared with a maximum of 9 parts per million recommended as long term goals by the World Health Organisation. Similarly there were recordings in Sydney of . 1 7 parts per million of petrochemical oxidants as compared with World Health Organisation recommendations of .06 parts per million. There is less information available about other capital cities. But, again, the information that was available suggested that problems of petrochemical smog and the like either existed or could be expected to emerge. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council had examined the available data on air quality in Australia. The Council had agreed that in order to achieve and maintain satisfactory quality for health needs it would be necessary to take more action to reduce vehicle emissions. There is too much at stake in regard to freeways to leave the States to their own decision making. Australia can still avoid many of the mistakes made in the United States in regard to freeways. The experiences of the American city of Los Angeles were illuminating in this respect. At one time Los Angeles had the largest suburban rail system in the United States but because of years of neglect this system was allowed to run down, until by 1961 no more suburban passenger services were provided in that city. Los Angeles has from that time relied on a system of freeways to provide the backbone of its transport system. More than 450 miles of freeways have been built. However, whilst this may be a superb engineering achievement, it does not provide the sort of transport system which serves the needs of all members of the community. Those without the means to afford cars- the young, the old and the poor- were ignored by the system. In addition, the people of Los Angeles now realise that freeways cause other problems. Because of this experience the city of Los Angeles has turned again to public transportation so that it may breathe some life into its choking city. It has reestablished a transit authority which is now engaged on the planning and building of a new rapid transit system. 
The Australian Government is determined that the public transport systems of the Australian cities will not suffer the same decline that such systems suffered in cities like Los Angeles, with the consequent huge expenditure needed to re-establish a viable public transport system. The Australian Government's transport initiatives in the urban public transport area are designed to provide a better balanced transport system. Last year $32m was provided to the States for public transport. I am confident that more will be made available in future years to continue this initiative. Apart from the serious need to look at the social and environmental effects of freeway development, there is an important need to ensure that finances provided for urban arterial roads and urban public transport upgrading are closely co-ordinated. This can be achieved only if the Australian Government is in a position to ensure that urban arterial road development is properly planned in all its aspects. There is nothing to be gained if Australian Government grants are used on urban railway development and the 
States build competitive freeways alongside that development. Co-ordination of both these forms of transport is necessary, and this can be achieved only if the Australian Government is in a position to have the controls relating to urban arterial roads as envisaged in clause 4(1). The arguments in support of the Goverment's stand are overwhelming and I believe they have the support of the majority of people living in our cities. I trust that the Opposition will see the force of this and ensure that this Bill, as amended, is brought into operation as quickly as possible. 

 - Mr Chairman, we have just heard one of the typical rubbishing speeches of the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I do not know where he ever got the 'right honourable'. He just made some very strong accusations against my friend the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and said that he would disclose what the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  had told him about the honourable member. I am saying now to the Leader of the Opposition that he is a liar because - 
-I withdraw that. He handles the truth most carelessly because, while the Leader of the Opposition was speaking, the honourable member for Kooyong came round to this side of the table and he and the honourable member for Melbourne were having a great joke about it, during which time the honourable member for Kooyong said 'I did not say anything about you'. 
-Let us get the facts. This is typical of the rotten statement the Leader of the Opposition made in this place one day when he alleged that I had attacked the honourable member for Dawson,  Dr Patterson.  Now he has switched it, saying that I was alleged to have attacked the former honourable member for Riverina. In both cases it was not true and it was just typical of the despicable animal that you are. (Honourable members interjecting)- 

 -Mr Chairman, these were statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
What do you want withdrawn? 
-That he is a despicable animal? 
-I will withdraw it,  Mr Chairman.  Everyone knows just what I think of him. 
-I have withdrawn it, regretfully, but the Leader of the Opposition knows as well as I do what I think of him.  Mr Chairman,  the unprovoked attack that he made on the honourable member for Melbourne is typical of the indivdual that he is. I trust that the honourable member will deal with it in his own way. Also we had some remarks by the Leader of the Opposition about the support of his Party to the Trade Practices Bill when it was in government. 
-Of course honourable members opposite supported it. The then Government had a Bill that was not worth a peanut and had no teeth in it, because it was afraid that it might harm its wealthy supporters. But we put some teeth into it. That is why today it is a better Bill than the earlier Bill was. There was also a reference to an alleged conversation between  Mr Geoff  Virgo, the Minister for Transport in South Australia, and me. As to the eavesdropping that allegedly took place, once again the Leader of the Opposition handled the truth most carelessly. I cannot call him a liar, can I,  Mr Chairman?  He handled the truth most carelessly. I did not indulge in bad language over the phone to  Mr Virgo. 
-He did not to me, either. 
-If he did, as among mates, I would take as much notice of it as I would if it were used by a lot of other people who are my friends.  Mr Chairman,  what we are concerned about and what we are trying to do in this Bill today is to act responsibly. We have due regard for the people. But the Liberal Party and the Country Party would go out of their way deliberately to lay them off and to sack them on the pretext that we are withholding money. The fact of the matter is that the Leader of the Opposition is in this place today for one reason only: Because he is frustrated and disappointed that the amendments are not being rejected by us. He would have loved us to have rejected them and thereby put innocent people in the position of being laid off. 
Let us be quite clear about the matter,  Mr Chairman.  Before the amendments were debated in the other place I outlined very clearly the Government's attitude. I pointed out that we had no intention whatsoever of dealing with rural arterial roads, other rural roads, other urban roads or the minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements program, and that all we were concerned about were the freeways. It is for that reason that I will be accepting the amendment which is to be moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. All we are concerned about are the freeways. We are not concerned about urban local roads or rural arterial roads. So let us be quite clear on that. We are not backing off. These amendments are completely in conformity with our attitude. The only difference is that if the provisions which the amendments will amend had remained in their original form the Bill would have been easier to handle. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I have been mates for 20 years. We are still mates. We will continue to work closely together on this Bill. So let there not be any illusions. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that a miserable $32m had been provided last year for the upgrading of urban public transport. It is $32m more than the coalition parties opposite were prepared to make available when they were in government. During the 23 years in which they were in government they did not provide anything for the upgrading of urban public transport. They did not provide one cent for the upgrading of urban public transport. Despite that, the Leader of the Opposition had the audacity to come into this chamber this afternoon and talk about the 'miserable $32m ' that we provided last year. 
-If it was not him it was the honourable member for Gippsland, which is more to the honourable member for Gippsland 's discredit because he was the responsible Minister in the former coalition government which did nothing about it. Honourable members opposite have talked about doing things. They could have acted when they were in government, but they did not. When the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I were in Opposition we talked about doing something and we have done something since we came into government. That is the difference between those who sit on this side of the chamber and those who sit on the other side of the chamber. Honourable members opposite are gunnas'. They were always going to do something, but they never got around to doing it. We on this side of the chamber do what we say we are going to do. That is the difference between them and us. 
The Leader of the Opposition made reference to the situation in Los Angeles. Of course, we know of the problems experienced in Los Angeles. I have experienced on a couple of occasions the smog that occurs there. I do not want to see any Australian cities experiencing the same conditions. For 23 years honourable members opposite did nothing about preventing Australia from experiencing the same conditions. They said that they were going to do something about it. As I said a moment ago, they are a team of 'gunnas'. We have done something. That is the difference between honourable members opposite and members of the Government Party. For 23 years honourable members opposite did not even talk about it. For 23 years they did nothing about it. That is the difference between them and us. I am prepared to accept the responsibility if urban public transport is not improved. I am prepared to accept the responsibility for any charge in the future of not doing anything about it. But let me say that if the State governments will co-operate with the present Australian Government and if the State governments will allow the present Australian Government to expend money where it should be expended on their urban public transport systems the present Australian Government will do what it has set out to do, that is, provide a better system of public transport for the people of the cities of Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition also made reference to the situation that exists in such suburbs of Melbourne as Collingwood, Carlton and the like. The right honourable gentleman knows that the innards of the suburbs of Collingwood, 
Carlton and the like are being torn to pieces by the construction of freeways. Let us get the facts clear. It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition does not look at them. I believe that the proposition which has been put forward today by the Government is sound and logical and should be supported. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 be agreed to. 
These 6 Senate amendments cover a number of matters. Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 delete the proposed role of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in relation to urban local roads and urban arterial roads, including the approval of selected individual projects coming under the latter category. Amendment No. 5 makes the revocation of approval of particular projects conditional on obtaining Senate agreement. Amendments Nos 6 and 7 remove the power of the Treasurer to advance funds to the extent that he is satisfied that such funds are required by the States and to obtain certain information in regard to the administration of the Act. The provisions covered by these amendments as originally drafted were logical. They were there to meet particular needs. However, we will not let their deletion prevent the legislation coming into operation as quickly as possible. It is in this spirit that we again agree to the amendments, knowing that this action will ensure the successful passage of the legislation and its operation. 
Briefly I want to make the point that the Government has no objection to the amendments. I have indicated that it accepts them, I am always amused at the accusations and charges that are made about this dictatorial centralist Canberra Government. A delegation made up of the  President,  the Senior VicePresident and the Secretary of the Local Government Association saw me recently and complained bitterly about the manner in which the State government was withholding funds from local government. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who is an alderman in the Newcastle City Council, at least for another couple of weeks until an election is held - 
-He is not standing. He cannot do the 2 jobs. 
-He did not squib it. He would have been elected if he had stood, have no fear about that. But he has had enough sense, like I had, to decide to get out because one cannot do the 2 jobs. But the honourable member could tell the Committee of his experiences in recent months of the standover tactics of the New South Wales Government in regard to the Newcastle City Council. The Council is concerned with 2 projects, one of which is still being held up as a result of the State Government's attempts to frustrate. This is a beautiful example of that centralist Sydney Government which dictates to the local councils and to the people of New South Wales. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  could tell the Committee the same story about the way the people of Wyong have been dictated to by the State Government. He could tell honourable members of the way in which roads are being built alongside schools. So do not let us start talking about dictatorial government. The New South Wales dictatorial Liberal-Country Party Government is as bad as any of them. So let us stop trying to pull one another's legs here today and get on with the job. We have a Bill to put through this place which is in the interests of the people of this country. 
I move: 
That the Senate's amendment No. 8 be disagreed to but, in place thereof, the following amendments be made: 
in clause 1 1 , sub-clause (1 ), omit 'of a particular kind of a Minister' and substitute 'by way of the construction of urban arterial roads if the Minister'. 
in clause11, sub-clause (2), omit 'of a particular kind' and substitute 'by way of the construction of urban arterial roads'. 
As I foreshadowed in speaking to the first amendment, the Government is not prepared to accept the Senate's amendment No. 8. Clause 1 1 is related to clause 4, sub-clause ( 1 ) and provides for the repayment of the annual amount provided under this Act where a State or local government carries out work from its own resources which is not approved. In accordance with the Government's approach in limiting clause 4 ( 1 ) to urban arterial roads it is suggesting an amendment to clause 1 1 which has a corresponding effect. The acceptance of this amendment, together with that to clause 4(1), will put the Government's position on approving State and local government road programs beyond doubt. This amendment, if accepted, will confine the operations of this clause to urban arterial roads. When speaking to the first amendment I outlined at some length the Government's case on the need to be involved in decision making on urban arterial roads. Without going over them again, those arguments relate to this particular amendment. 
The Government accepts the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  As he says, it tightens up the definition of urban arterial and urban sub-arterial roads. It puts us in the position where we want to be, in control of freeway construction. That is all we want. I accept his assurances that if we should find any bugs when we look at it more closely- we have had only a short time to look at it- he will arrange for consideration to be given to it in another place. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pan 6 of the Navigation Act and the Navigation (Manning and Coasting Trade) Regulations govern the carriage of passengers by foreign vessels on the Australian coast. 
Section 286 of the Navigation Act 1912-1973 provides that where no licensed ship is available preference is given to an unlicensed British ship over an unlicensed foreign ship. A British ship includes a ship registered in a Commonwealth country or a ship recognised by the law of a Commonwealth country as a ship belonging to that country. 
24. 
24. 
No. 
As no passengers were embarked at Sydney for disembarkation at Brisbane no single voyage permit for that leg of the ship's voyage was necessary. However, investigation has shown that 5 passengers boarded the vessel in Sydney on 20 June 1974 and disembarked at Brisbane on 31 July 1974 after travelling via Brisbane, Fiji, Western Samoa and Niue. No application for the required single voyage permit for the carriage of those passengers from Sydney to Melbourne was lodged with the Department of Transport. 
The matter has been discussed with the vessel's owners who were unaware of the need to obtain a permit in the circumstances of the ship 's itinerary. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department has maintained a constant review of the fuel supply to and usage by Australia's transport system. This information has been provided to the Department of Minerals and Energy which has the primary responsibility in this matter. Furthermore, the Bureau of Transport Economics is commissioning a study to investigate the likely effects of fuel shortage, regulation and pricing on transport use, fuel use and transport technology. This study is planned to be carried out in several phases. The first phase- a study of current literature on the subject- is now completed. 
) It is anticipated that the report on the first phase of the abovementioned study will be released by the Bureau of Transport Economics. Such aspects as the increasing use of smaller cars and alternative transport technologies may be investigated in later phases of the study. 
I have stated on a number of occasions my view is that management' must consider whether high-powered motor vehicles are really necessary for a particular function. I am concerned to see that the Australian Government, with its concern for the environment, takes fuel consumption data into account in reaching its decisions. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 307) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Secretary of Speld wrote to me to draw to my attention the possible problems faced by persons with reading difficulty in coping with traffic signs. An officer of my Department subsequently visited the headquarters of Speld in Sydney to discuss the matter. It was agreed that a research study to determine the nature of the problem was in order. 
Yes. A study plan has been developed and its feasibility discussed with the Department of Education at Monash University in Victoria. The research study will be instigated as soon as a suitable consultant can be found to undertake it. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Environmental studies are an integral part of Transport planning, and therefore environmental matters affect the duties of a number of transport planners and transport analysts in the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to an effect which is considered the equivalent of approximately two full time positions. 
The function of Bureau staff members concerned with environmental studies is to conduct investigations into environmental effects of roads in order to ensure that the Bureau is fully informed of these matters for the purpose of its responsibilities under its Act 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3), (4) and (5). The formulation of a fuel consumption standard is only one of the measures under consideration by the Australian Government to protect the consumer. 
My Department is currently investigating the formulation of a suitable fuel consumption standard, and at the same time examining the United States voluntary fuel economy labelling programming introduced for 1974 model vehicles. When the National Authority on Road Safety and Standards is established, it is expected that further resources will be available to undertake more comprehensive programs on consumer protection and information standards in relation to motor vehicles. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Training in Financial Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 432) 
-Yes, I am aware of the problems associated with increased freight rates in Tasmania. 
About a week or 10 days ago. I am aware of the problems associated with the increased' charges. Yesterday afternoon and again this morning I met with some honourable members and honourable senators from Tasmania and I will be seeing them again on either Wednesday or Thursday this week. There are problems associated with the increase. Let us face the facts of life. The facts of life are that the Australian National Line has incurred substantially increased costs in its operations both in the form of labour costs - 

 Mr Sinclair^ You are a member of the Government which caused it, so you ought to know. 
-If the honourable member wants a few facts on the matter, then I can easily give them to him. Some of the increased costs were incurred at a time when the honourable member was a member of the former Government. For example, in July 1972 the salary bill of officers of the Third Division of the Australian Public Service increased by $46,000. 1 could go on for some time elaborating on the increases that were incurred when the present Opposition was the Government in this country, but I do not want to weary honourable members. 
When we were in Opposition we did not object to increases in the charges levied by ANL because we realise that its increased costs have to be passed on. In 1972-73, when the honourable member for Gippsland was partly responsible, as I was, ANL incurred a loss of $ 1.65m on its general cargo operations. It is estimated that a loss of $3. 8m will be incurred in the year 1973-74. Unless ANL's freight rates are adjusted, the loss for 1974-75 will be about $7.4m. No honourable member can justify increased losses of this type. It is reasonable that the user should pay for the cost of the service provided. Consider what ANL's competitors in the Tasmanian trade have done. The Union Steam Ship Co. in recent months has increased its freight rates on the Melbourne-Sydney run by 27.68 per cent and on the Sydney-Hobart run by 25.5 per cent while Associated Steamships Pty Ltd increased its charges by 33.3 per cent. So ANL's increase of 25 per cent is quite reasonable and quite moderate. Protests are being made at the moment about the increase, but there were no similar protests when ANL's competitors increased their freight rates. 
The honourable member asked me why we did not wait until the Nimmo Committee's report was tabled. I do not know when the 
Nimmo Committee will present its report, but I can give the honourable member one small piece of information: When the Tasmanian ports committee recently decided to increase port charges, it was suggested to the committee that it might await the Nimmo Committee report and its findings. It refused to do so. I believe that indirectly port charges are the responsibility of the Tasmanian Government so there is one law for the Tasmanians and one law for the Australian Government. The Tasmanian Government is protesting very strongly about our decision to increase ANL's freight rates by 25 per cent, but at the same time it has increased its own rail rates by between 25 per cent and 33 per cent. The road hauliers have increased their charges by an even greater amount. Others have had to increase charges. 
We do not claim to have any great power to avoid the increases we have made. They were necessary and we put them through. What do they represent as individual charges? It is important that I pass this information on to honourable members. ANL has already noted examples of freight forwarders increasing the total freight charge by 25 per cent. In other words, they have been trying to pass on to consumers in Tasmania more than they should. I strongly advise manufacturers and others in Tasmania to examine the freight rate charges which are being levied against them. After all, the sea leg element of the cost represents only 40-45 per cent of the total. We have already noted numerous examples of freight forwarders in Tasmania increasing their total charge to the manufacturer by 25 per cent. The increase in ANL's charges represents an increase of $2.40 to $2.80 per ton. Whilst the freight rate is much greater, it includes wharfage and land-based freight forwarders' charges. The sea leg represents about 40 per cent of the freight rate. 
-I recollect that some time about 1970-71 when the right honourable gentleman was a member of a former Government an inquiry was set up to examine freight rates to and from Tasmania and a number of other things. An increase that had just been put through then probably had as much effect on the Tasmanian economy as the present increase in freight rates will have. That inquiry, which was instituted by the Liberal and Country Party Government of that time, found that the freight rate increase was fully justified. 
-Of course it was entirely different because the honourable member for New England's mob was running the show then, and what a weird and wonderful mob it was. 
-I have made the statement on numerous occasions that the Australian Government is prepared to accept responsibility for the operation of Australia 's ports. 
If the honourable gentleman refers his question to his own Party which is in government in New South Wales and which is completely and totally responsible for the operations of port activity in Newcastle and in every other port in New South Wales he might get his answer. Until such time as the New South Wales Government is prepared to transfer its responsibility to this Government I am afraid that it will be responsible for the turnround of ships and the operation of the ports. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Electric Cars '. 
First of all I seek leave to have the terms of the Royal Commission incorporated in Hansard. 
-I thank the House. This telex, from a  Mr Dent,  asked me a series of questions. Among the questions, were these: 
Can you give us any guidance in this matter from the Government point of view? 
b ) Should we pay this money and if so to whom? 
Does a legal basis exist for such a claim by the Seamens union who have so far refused to put their claim in writing? 
For your guidance, the vessel requires the use of linesmen, tugs and pilot to clear the port of Fremantle. There has been no involvement of the WWF in this issue as yet. 
The telex asked for a reply that day. The reply was provided that day. This is the reply which I gave: 
I refer to your telegram dated 9 August concerning 'Sloman Alstertor'. Prior to issuing permit for 'Sloman Alstertor' I notified the Secretary ACTU on 22 July of the proposed lifting of motor vehicles. 
In the absence of any response or objection from the ACTU I find it surprising that the action now reported by you should have been taken by the Seamen's Union. 
You will be aware that the Navigation Act requires that seamen on ships licensed to engage in the coasting trade should be paid wages at the current rates ruling in Australia but no such stipulation is made in relation to unlicensed ships for which permits may be issued to carry coastal cargo. 
There is therefore no legal basis under the Navigation Act to support the demands alleged to have been made by the Seamen's Union. 
In the circumstances I feel your company is justified in seeking to have the union's demands documented. 
Whether the union 's request is acceded to ( with or without a written claim) is, I believe, a matter for you to decide. 
In the event of an industrial dispute arising the normal arbitration process would involve notification of the dispute to the appropriate industrial tribunal either State or Commonwealth depending on the award under which the union or unions involved are operating. 
In view of the nature of your representations I am referring a copy of your representations to my colleagues the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Attorney-General '. 
That was on 9 August and there was no hesitation as far as I was concerned. I informed those people of my attitude,  Mr Speaker,  and where I stood on the issue. I gave them the advice I have just read to you, and it is on record. A few days after that I met the writer - 
-I thank honourable members. Might I say also that within a few days of sending  Mr Dent  this telex I met him, in company with the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  I was looking at ferries in Sydney Harbour and during the inspection and a tour up the Parramatta River - 
-I thank honourable members. On 21 August I was concerned that there had been no action. I want honourable members to understand the state of the political scene at that stage. The Government was in the middle of the Cabinet discussions on the Budget and honourable members on the other side should know what is involved in the weeks leading up to the Budget and in particular that week, when we sat for 6 days, including a special sitting of Parliament. On 2 1 August I saw the Prime Minister and told him that there was an important matter with which I was concerned. I asked him had he seen the letters and he admitted to me that at that point he had not seen them. The moment I outlined the issue and the facts to him in relation to the way I saw them and what was happening he said: 'We are not going to tolerate this. Give me a letter to our colleagues the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister for Labor and Immigration '. I had a letter prepared which was submitted to me on 23 August. I was not satisfied with it and had it redrafted. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the letter setting out the position as I saw it. 
-I thank honourable members. On Saturday, 24 August, after the Cabinet Budget discussions had concluded I sent the letter and recommendations to the Prime Minister. He was then away for a week and I was away for 4 days. When I returned to my office on Monday, 2 September, at about 9 a.m. my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  rang me in Newcastle in relation to this matter and put to me the proposition that we should have a royal commission. I immediately agreed to this proposition and the result is that today you have a royal commission. It is the wish of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labor and Immigration and myself that this matter be fully investigated and exposed. Evidence will be taken at the inquiry, unlike the inquiry set up by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1958 when people who tendered evidence were not subject to cross-examination by those affected by their evidence. The first paragraph in the recommendations of that committee states that fact. 
As far as I am concerned personally, I have never stopped moving on all this information. As 
I receive the letters I refer them to people who are there to give the necessary legal advice on what can and should be done and what the recommendations are. I am not a lawyer and I cannot give you that legal advice. When these papers are produced for public inspection and cross-examination at the royal commission it will be shown that at no time have the Department of Transport and its Minister accepted and tolerated payments of this type being made into any fund. To the crews of the ships, yes. And I ask the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  to say that he is opposed to the crews being paid this sort of money. I agree that International Transport Federation rates should be paid to all crews of international ships. It is part of the policy of the Labor Party and the trade union movement. It is true that I told Charlie Fitzgibbons, who is a personal friend of mine, both being Newcastle men, that there was no risk of any interference by me or any prosecution or action being taken against his union while it was insisting on the crews of foreign ships being paid ITF rates of pay. I challenge the Opposition to dispute that, to say that I was wrong and that they should not get ITF rates of pay. That is the situation as far as I am concerned. I have no evidence, no proof and no knowledge of any money having been paid into secret funds- that is, as far as ITF rates of pay are concerned. I have been completely truthful and above board. Never for a moment have I tolerated a situation where money was obtained by means that could be referred to as blackmail or anything else. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. Out of justice to a trade union official whom the honourable member for Gippsland implied was involved in this matter- I refer to the Acting Secretary of the Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers Association of Australasia- I seek leave to have incorporated his telegram to me dissociating his union from the alleged involvement in the levies and my reply to him of 9 September. 
CK Jones MP 68 Alfred St 
Milsons Point NSW 
The executive of marine cooks union of Australia emphatically refute any involvement in levies on foreign ships as per media 
Acting Secretary Carrington 
Parliament House, 
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 9 Sept 1974 
Dear  Mr Carrington, 
Thank you for your telegram of 5th September concerning levies on foreign ships. I was pleased to receive your advice that the Executive of your Union refuted the suggestion that it was involved in these levies. 
Yours sincerely, (C. K. Jones) 

 Mr C. Carrington, 
Acting Secretary, 
Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers' Association of 
Australasia, 4 Goulburn Street, 
Sydney, N.S.W. 2000. 
-I will give the honourable member a detailed list of the proposed increases. At the moment it is a matter for decision by Commonwealth Railways. It might be interesting for the honourable member, when he makes attacks on the Government for its alleged attacks on country people, to take into consideration that the Australian railway system as a whole in the 6 States has recently increased freight rates by 20 per cent and it is proposed that further increases will take place from 1 October. There has been a total increase recently in road freights- the increase has occurred in bits and pieces- of 40 per cent between Sydney and Melbourne and 46 per cent on the Melbourne to Sydney run. So when the honourable member talks about these increases he should take into consideration that they were introduced first of all by the State railways and, in the case of road transport freight rates, by private enterprise. I suggest to the honourable member that he should look at all the facts and stop the narrowminded bitching that he is going on with. 
-I am aware of the NRMA survey concerning the Hume Highway. I am aware also that the Hume Highway is in its present condition firstly because of the failure of State governments to build roads which will stand up to modern traffic, particularly national highways. The damage to this road in recent weeks results from heavy rains and flooding. However the basic responsibility is that of the State governments which have failed in discharging their responsibility to this nation by not providing an adequate national highways system. That is why, in recent road legislation introduced in this Parliament by the Government, we are setting out to ensure that Australia will have a national highways system which will stand up to the problems of flooding to which the Hume Highway has recently been subjected. As the honourable member realises, the appropriate Bills were finally passed by the Senate last Tuesday. Yesterday we had a meeting of all State road commissioners with representatives of various Australian Government departments involved in this matter to work out how the whole system is to operate between the States and the Australian Government Department of Transport. As a result of these discussions we will be in a much better position to cope with the requirements of highways. It has not yet been determined whether the necessary money for the Hume Highway will come from a flood relief grant or whether it will be part of the national highways maintenance allocation, but the honourable member can be assured that the work will be done. At the moment it is still the responsibility of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads to ensure that this road is traffickable. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. At the time of the dispute in this Parliament in 1972 on Jetair Australia Ltd everyone knew that the then Government paid too much for those aircraft from Jetair and we all know that Alexander Barton is a good friend of the Liberal and Country Parties. 
-It is a fact of life and you fellows know it. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics report 'Electric Cars' is at present with the Government Printing Office and is expected to be completed within a few weeks. I anticipate releasing the report at that time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In announcing the Australian Government's initiative to improve urban public transport I advised the February 1973 meeting of ATAC that we would be prepared to extend the scheme to include major provincial centres of over 100,000 population based on comprehensive investigation. As the present scheme only extends to 1977-78 I do not envisage assistance being extended to centres with a population below 100,000. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The urban public transport program that this Government initiated was not conditional upon the urban public transport systems providing free off-peak travel. The question of pricing policies for urban transport is at present under investigation by the Bureau of Transport Economics in co-operation with State bodies. 
The Australian Government's attitude to fare structures of urban transport systems will be considered following the completion of this study. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1635, in which I outlined some aspects of this study by the Bureau of Transport Economics. The study covered selected suburban areas in Sydney and yielded some useful information. However, results were not conclusive and a report will not be issued. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government and the State Governments have agreed to undertake a number of studies aimed at improving urban transport including the development of the Australian Urban Passenger Train consumer preferences in rail car design the development of a new rail system centred on Parramatta the feasibility of improving and standardising bus designs in Australia consumer preference in bus design analysis of bus replacement cycles urban transport pricing examination of household characteristics and travel patterns in the Sydney area estimation of a complete demand function for urban passenger transport 
The terms of reference are implied by the description of the study. Studies into urban transport Will continue to be undertaken although the nature of future studies is not yet determined. 
Consumer Preferences in Urban Rail Carriage Design (Question No. 410) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This report was tabled in Parliament on 23 July 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report on the rail car preference survey has been completed (see answer to question No. 410). 
Although the overall study of Brisbane's airport need is still continuing, an interim report has been produced on the requirement for a new international terminal. Copies of this report are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
A revised report on the proposed interstate rail freight terminal at Acacia Ridge, Brisbane was presented at the July meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Study of other terminals is proceeding. 
A final report on an optimal upgrading program for the Melbourne-Adelaide railway is in the course of preparation 
In addition to those described in (1), studies which will ultimately appear in report form are: determination of the optimal rail wagon fleet to perform the Australian main line freight task assessment of the upgrading needs of the single track section of the Sydney-Melbourne railway analysis of bus maintenance costs (incorporated in the study of bus replacement cycles referred to in the answer to question No. 1 1 10) potential benefits of reducing the number of Australian port calls by container ships through increased use of container modes. 
Many BTE studies (e.g. competition between modes in long distance passenger movements, complete demand function for urban passenger transport are of a long-term, on going nature and have no specific completion date, nor will they necessarily appear as published reports. Other investigations will be finalised as soon as practicable. 
Bureau of Transport Economics: Studies (Question No. 413)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1285 (Hansard, 1 1 December 1973, pages 4575-6), what progress has been made in each of the studies mentioned. 
In particular, which studies have been completed and, for those not yet completed, what is the likely date of completion. 
What are the terms of reference of each project. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following studies, or parts of studies, have been completed: Alternatves in Petrol Driven Motor Cars Simulation of Single Track Railway Operations The Treatment of Cross-modal Effects in Transport Evaluation 
Scale Economies in Private Bus Operations in Melbourne Sensitivity of Estimated Transport Benefits to Key Parameters 
Implication of Energy Resource Limitations for Transport in Australia (First Stage: Literature Review ) 
Estimating the Value to Public Transport Users of Comfort Improvements (First Stage: Literature Review) 
The following studies are well advanced: 
Wheat Freight Rates and their Effect on Wheat Movements 
Removing Road Transport Controls in South AustraliaAn Assessment of Effects 
Review of Railway Intersystem Rating Practices and their Effects 
Survey of Pallet Use in Australia and Proposals for a New Standard Pallet (eventual report will be titled 'Pallets and Containerisation in Australia ') 
As I indicated in my answer to question No. 1285, it is not possible to state specifically when each individual study will be completed (in part, because many studies are dependent on State co-operation ). 
As I indicated in my answer to question No. 1110, Ido not propose to list the terms of reference for each study in detail, as the aims are implicit in the study description. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics has commenced a study of the benefits that woud accrue from a unified national railway system as opposed to the present separate railway systems. 
I indicated that, in line with the Australian Government's flexibility and desire for an efficient transport system, a report from the BTE favouring retention of the present system would cause me to rethink the situation- something that the States should be prepared to do if the report favours unification. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the present time the Government is committed by the Northern Territory Acceptance Act and the 1949 Railway Agreement (S.A.) Act to the eventual construction of a standard gauge railway from Port Augusta to Darwin. Agreement has been reached for construction of the proposed standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. Before construction of the line is completed I will be giving consideration to asking the Bureau of Transport Economics to undertake a comprehensive study of the possibility of extending the line to Darwin and, at the same time, to look at the feasibility of alternative routes to Darwin including that from Mount Isa. You will appreciate, however, that before a railway could be built within Queensland the prior agreement of the State Government would be required. - 
-I realise the honourable member's problem concerning the curtailment of New South Wales passenger services. One of the unfortunate aspects is that the New South Wales Department of Railways is closing down quite a considerable number of railway services throughout New South Wales without having due regard to the needs of the people in those areas. This Government has made numerous offers. The Prime Minister made an offer as late as June this year at a Premiers Conference. He made an offer in his policy speech of December 1972 and he repeated it again in May 1974 that this Government is prepared to take over these services and to accept full responsibility for them. Before we would be prepared to consider these matters they should be given a complete and total inquiry to determine the harmful and sociological effects on the people involved. Unfortunately the New South Wales Government has not done all of these things. Therefore we have the situation in which the honourable member for Darling finds himself. My understanding- I will check this out for the honourable member- is that the 'Indian Pacific' is travelling at maximum capacity. If there is any possibility of assisting we certainly will. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973, I present for the information of honourable members Financial Statements of Commonwealth Railways for 1973-74. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend certain provisions of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-73 in order to alter the name of the Commission; increase the number of Commissioners from five to seven; make specific provision for the appointment of a full time Chairman of the Commission; to alter the basis on which the Commission is reimbursed for losses in the operation of a shipping service undertaken at the direction of the Minister for Transport; and to eliminate an anomaly in the present Act relating to rights and benefits of the Commission's officers formerly employed in the Australian Public Service. At the same time the opportunity will be taken to make several amendments of a machinery nature in relation to financial provisions of the Act and to effect some largely formal amendments including those arising out of the Statute Law Revision Act 1973. The proposed amendments are intended to update the Act and enable the Commission more effectively to perform its role as a national shipping line in both coastal and overseas trading. 
I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members the development of the Australian National Line since the Commission was established in late 1956. The fleet then comprised 42 ships, with a total deadweight tonnage of 250,960, representing an investment of $24.5m. The fleet now comprises 3 1 vessels, with a combined deadweight tonnage of 65 1, 136. The Line now has total fixed assets, at cost of $183m. Turnover of the Line has increased from $32m in 1957-58 to over $100m. 
The Commission's important contribution to the increased efficiency of Australia's coastal shipping services is well known. It has a proud record of innovation and development of new and more efficient ships, terminals and handling methods. The Line was, for example, the first to introduce the roll-on roll-off concept of transportation into Australian coastal trading, as a fast, convenient and economical method of moving passengers, vehicles and cargo. The Line has a further 5 ships for the coastal trades on order. After an absence of 40 years the Line returned the Australian flag to regular overseas operation. It now has 4 modern vessels in our overseas liner trades and these are to be joined shortly by another two, with a third on order. Four large bulk carriers for the overseas bulk trades are on order. The Government sees the Australian National Line as the pace setter for implementing our declared objective to achieve a more equitable share of the carriage of our overseas trade in Australian flag ships. This development and expansion places a great responsibility on the Commission. The Government considers that some changes are required to permit the Commission, now entirely a part-time body, to be better equipped to handle the challenges of continued growth, increasing technological development and complexity of operation. 
Let me now speak separately to the main provisions. Firstly, the Commission's name is clearly an anachronism. Overseas operations are already a significant portion of its activities and will become more important. It is proposed therefore that the name of the Commission be changed to the Australian Shipping Commission more accurately to reflect its proper function. Honourable members will be aware that the Commission was established under the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act in 1956 and since then has consisted of 5 Commissioners, one of whom is appointed Chairman and another Vice-Chairman, and all of whom, as I mentioned previously, act part-time. 
The Government regards the separate public transport authorities in the different modes as important agencies through which its policies, not only in the transport, but in other fields, will be forwarded. This demands a closer understanding between the various authorities and the Minister and the Minister's Department. These policies, in respect of the Australian National Line, envisage the Line initiating programs in accord with the Government's objectives and these carry with them heavy investment decisions. Of course, a great deal has already been achieved. I shall detail these developments in a moment. However, with such major investment decisions the Government attaches great importance to ensuring that the Commission be afforded the assistance it will receive from the appointment of a full-time  Chairman. His  appointment will permit the continuing oversight of the Line's objectives and review of the Line's operations and financial arrangements. It will allow the Commission, as a whole, to be kept closely informed on all matters relating to the Commissioners' collective responsibility. Qantas Airways Ltd already has a full-time  chairman.  It is proposed also to increase the number of parttime Commissioners assisting the  Chairman  to six. One of these 6 part-time Commissioners will be a Vice-Chairman. 
Let me indicate in more detail the extent of the Commission's current involvement with initiatives taken since the Government took office. Since December 1972 there has been unprecedented activity by the Australian Government in all forms of transport, because this Government takes a multimodal approach to the total national transport task. Shipping must take its place amongst the whole range of transport policies that the Government is striving to implement. Additionally, in relation to shipping, it was not expected that we could achieve overnight the policy objectives announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his 1972 policy speech. However the opportunities for expanding coastal and overseas shipping were examined as soon as we won office and the first proposal aimed at expanding the Australian National Line's coastal shipping operations was put forward as early as 15 December 1972. 
Since that time a progressive increase in Australia's share of trade from Japan from 17.2 per cent to 30 per cent by 1979 has been successfully negotiated. The Line has already achieved an increase in the wool trade to Japan from 23 per cent to 28.3 per cent. To carry this increased cargo volume a hybrid roll-on roll-off cellular container vessel, the 'Australian Emblem', is being built for use in this trade and was launched on 9 August. This is a 22,400 d.w.t. vessel with a capacity of 1,431 twenty feet length containers. The Line's Australian partner in the eastern searoad service, the Flinders Shipping Co., has negotiated the purchase of a similar vessel. The 2 vessels already in this trade, 'Australian Enterprise' and 'Matthew Flinders' are to be diverted to the East Asia trade to provide an entirely independent Australian flag service to Korea, Hong Kong and the Philippines. The Commission has arranged to purchase 'Matthew Flinders' from the Flinders Shipping Co. The placing of an order by the Line for the construction of a 29,000 d.w.t. cellular container ship for the Australia-Europe cargo liner trade has also been approved. This ship is expected to be delivered in 1977 and will join 'Australian Endeavour', also operated by the Line, in the Associated Container Transportation (Australia) Ltd-ANL service to Europe. 
Steps have been taken to secure, for the first time, regular participation by Australian flag vessels in our bulk minerals export trade. In November last year the ordering by the Line of 2 bulk carriers of 12 1,000 d.w.t. each for use in the Australia- Japan ore trade was authorised. Delivery of these vessels is expected in July 1976 and May 1977 respectively. More recently, the placing of a further order for 2 bulk carriers was approved. Each of these vessels is 140,000 d.w.t. and they are also planned for use in the Japan ore trade. These ships are expected to be delivered in July and December 1976. For coastal trading the Line has been given approval to purchase 2 general cargo vessels, the first of which is scheduled to enter service in February next year and the second a year later. In addition the Line has ordered two 25,000-ton bulk carriers and these vessels are expected to enter service in November 1976 and May 1977. These 1 1 ships currently on order for ANL and the associated seaborne equipment necessary for their operation involve a capital expenditure of approximately $235m. 
Discussions have been held with the New Zealand Minister for Transport concerning an Australian flag shipping service in the transTasman trade. Feasibility studies have been conducted by the Commission but vessels have not been introduced into the trade as speedily as the Government would have wished, mainly because of the problem of securing suitable vessels in current market conditions. The search for suitable tonnage is continuing. The problem of securing suitable tonnage has also been the main difficulty standing in the way of total Australian flag participation in the Christmas Island rock phosphate trade. Early this year I decided not to renew the exemption of this trade from the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. Such an exemption had been granted by our predecessors in government, the effect of which was to enable the use of foreign flag vessels for carrying phosphate from Christmas Island to Australia. I have asked the Australian National Line to seek suitable tonnage on the world market to ensure that sufficient Australian manned tonnage is available to handle the total trade. Negotiations are currently under way for the Line to acquire its first vessel for this trade and I expect to be in a position to make an announcement shortly. 
Discussions have also been held with the Chinese Government to undertake a feasibility study for the introduction of a direct AustraliaChina liner service. Officers of the Australian National Line are visiting China in October of this year to examine port facilities and to have further discussions on the practicability of a direct liner service between Australia and China. Before I sanction entry into any trade I require to be satisfied, and must be able to satisfy my colleagues, that the service is justified, can be done efficiently and is appropriate to the national interest. These responsibilities rest directly with the Commission. The Government is pleased that it has responded so directly and positively to .the need for new initiatives. However, the Government is also aware of the extra burden these impose upon it. The measure now proposed should substantially assist the Commission to develop the role the Government requires of it and of the Australian National Line. 
Turning to the Commission's operational activities, section 17 (1) of the present Act provides that, if desirable in the public interest, the Minister may direct the Commission to establish, maintain and operate a shipping service to meet the requirements of a particular area. If such a shipping service suffers a loss in any financial year, and, if an overall loss results from the Commission 's whole operations for that year, the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed by the Australian Government to the extent of the lesser of the two losses. This provision is contained in sub-section 4 (b) and (c) of section 17. This provision which was designed to protect the Commission can, in fact, be damaging to the Line's overall operations. The practical effect of such a direction under the present provisions of the Act is that the Commission is required to crosssubsidise such a service from other profitable operations. The Government considers the Line's overall operation as a competitive shipping line should not be penalised as a result of providing an uneconomic shipping service, even though this is operated in the public interest Subsidies made for such reasons in the Line's operations should be identified and repaid. It is therefore, proposed that sub-section (4) of section 17 be amended to provide that, when the Minister directs the Commission to establish a shipping service in the public interest, the Commission shall be directly reimbursed to the full extent of any losses sustained in operating such a service. 
The provisions of the Act relating to the appointment of officers to the Commission also require amendment. Sub-section (1) of section 22 of the Act provides that the terms and conditions of employment of officers appointed by the Commission shall be as determined by the Commission. However, sub-section (2) of section 22 provides that the Commission shall not, except with the approval of the Minister, determine the salary of a position in the service of the Commission at a rate exceeding $7,000 per annum. The intention of the original Act was that the salary limit would equate with approximately the maximum of the top Public Service Third Division classification. This section was amended in 1 964 in order to retain such equality. It has not been updated since, with the result that more and more routine administrative matters must be referred to the Minister for approval. The current salary figure of $7,000 per annum is equivalent to a clerk class 2/3 in the Australian Public Service. To update this provision of the Act the figure of $7,000 is amended to $15,739, which is currently the maximum of the top Third Division classification. In order to avoid further similar amendments to the Act there will be provision for a higher amount to be prescribed, the intention being that the amount prescribed will be kept in line with the top Public Service Third Division salary. 
In addition to the amendment to sub-section (2) of section 22 a further amendment is proposed to eliminate an anomaly which exists in respect of sub-section (3) of section 22. This latter sub-section of the Act purports to give officers of the Commission who were formerly employed in the Australian Public Service the same rights and benefits as if they remained in the Public Service. These rights and benefits are enjoyed by officers in other statutory authorities, such as Commonwealth Railways. As presently worded the sub-section does not provide for this. It is without meaning for the reason that Public Service rights and benefits are given pursuant to appointments under section 22 only, whereas appointment of officers is authorised only under section 2 1 and 23. Sub-section (3) of section 22 is to be amended appropriately to remove this anomaly. Because of the number of former Australian Public Service officers already employed by the Commission retrospectivity will be necessary. Several amendments are proposed to financial provisions in the Act including section 30 provisions relating to borrowings. The purpose of these amendments is to bring the principal Act into line with the provisions of comparable sections of legislation relating to other statutory commissions operating business undertakings. There are also some formal amendments and these are detailed in the Schedule to the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
-I am interested in the question that has been asked by the honourable member for Franklin. I am aware of the interest which he and all other honourable members and honourable senators on the Government side from Tasmania have been displaying in freight rates. I have noted just recently quite a deal of criticism of the Government's decision to increase shipping freights by 25 per cent and talk of what the Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the Australian Country Party or other members of the Opposition would do if by some mischance the Opposition became the Government. Let us have a real look at the Opposition's record- and this is important. In August 1970 there was an increase of 12 per cent in all Tasmanian general cargo freights; in July 1971 a12 per cent increase in freights between Sydney and Tasmania; an 8 per cent increase in July 1971 in freights between Melbourne and Tasmania. 
Now let us look at what the Opposition did in regard to freight rates in August 1972, just before it was rolled in the election in December 1972 and at a time when it was in full flight as the government. It then increased by 25 per cent the freights between Melbourne and Tasmania by the removal of the concession on dense cargoes. There was a 12 per cent increase in SydneyTasmania freight rates, then an increase due to the removal of concessions on heavy cargo which was the equivalent of a 22 per cent increase in freight rates for those commodities. There was a 20 per cent surcharge applied on hazardous cargoes, an 18 per cent increase due to the removal of the concession on industrial machinery and a 17 per cent increase in the freight rates on newsprint. That was not a bad sort of record for the then Country Party Minister for Shipping and Transport to have on the eve on an election. Yet I have heard of statements that have been made by the Leader of his Party as to what the Country Party would do about freight rates. 
This Government examined the question of freight rates charged on goods shipped to Tasmania, and it examined freight rates as a whole. As the result of numerous meetings between all the members of the Government in Tasmania and the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and myself, we worked out a formula whereby assistance could be given. Because the report from the Nimmo Committee had not then been made available and because we did not wish to upstage that report, we agreed that freight rates would not be increased on certain commodities. The Acting Prime Minister was in Tasmania last Friday, and he made a certain announcement. The decision was the direct result of logical representations which were put forward by Labor members from Tasmania. Their comments were noted and we did something about the situation. Not only did we do something about the situation last week by giving some assistance to Tasmania, but we did something about it in the previous Budget. 
-I appreciate the interest of the honourable member for Scullin in this matter. It is an important matter, having in mind the numbers of people who at different times have unfortunately lost their lives in aircraft accidents, particularly in what appeared to be in some cases minor accidents. This subject was reported on briefly by the newspapers some 12 or 18 months ago. The honourable member referred today to the question which he directed to me somewhere about that time. What we have done with regard to it is ask the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to carry out an investigation. It prepared a report which was then referred to a working group comprised of representatives of the Department of Transport, the airlines and CSIRO. That working group has now prepared a report which I am hopeful of tabling in this House either tomorrow or next week, depending upon when I am in possession of sufficient copies of it. 
-Well, the week after. When the report is available to me in sufficient numbers I will table it. I have a copy of it in my room. I propose to make a copy available in the Parliamentary Library. The interesting part about the working group's report is that the toxic gases such as hydrogen cyanide were considered to be a major hazard. It found that smoke, flame and superheated gases were very important considerations, bearing in mind their concentration in aeroplanes at the time when people were being exposed to them. 
Without going into the question in detail, the facts are that the report will be tabled within a very short time. It has brought up some interesting points. Firstly, it would appear that there is no necessity to refit all existing aircraft, but in future we should examine closely the types of material with which aircraft will be furnished. Having this in mind, I will be asking the Minister for Science to permit the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which comes within his portfolio, together with the Department of Transport and the airlines, to conduct further investigations into the types of material which should be used to furnish aircraft so we can overcome the problems in which the honourable member for Scullin and I are interested, as every member or person who flies in an aircraft should be interested. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the ratification by the Parliament of an agreement made between the Australian and South Australian governments for the construction of a standard gauge railway linking Adelaide to the transcontinental line at Crystal Brook. Honourable members will realise that the new railway will complete the linking of the mainland State capital cities to the national standard gauge network which has been a policy accepted by both sides in the Parliament. 
This project had its origins in the Standardisation Agreement of 1949 in which the Australian Government agreed to convert to standard gauge the entire South Australian railway system. Following commencement of the Port Pirie-Broken Hill standardisation project the Premier of South Australia in 1964 sought provision of a standard gauge connection from this line to Adelaide. In 1965 the State proposed an alternative scheme involving substantial standardisation of lightly trafficked country lines. Following lengthy discussions with the State it was finally agreed to employ consultants to study and report on the most efficient, economic means of providing a standard gauge link to the interstate network. Maunsell and Partners were appointed consultants and a report outlining the intended scope of the project was presented in March 1970. Following a change of government in South Australia the earlier proposals were again raised and it was not until January 1974 that the consultants were able to submit their master plan for the works to be carried out. Some other minor matters were raised by the State and finally the formal agreement was signed in May by both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and Premier of South Australia. 
The new standard gauge line involves construction of a high capacity railway from Adelaide approximately 192 kilometres to link with the transcontinental standard gauge line at Crystal Brook. The route will follow the general line of the existing broad gauge railway from Adelaide to Red Hill and then deviate on a new alignment to Crystal Brook. Included in the project are standard gauge connections from Snowtown to Wallaroo, to industry at Mile End and Port Adelaide and the livestock sidings at Pooraka. The work entailed is to be carried out by the South Australian Railways as constructing authority under the supervision of my Department and is expected to take over 5 years to complete although standard gauge trains should be able to operate to the Adelaide metropolitan area within approximately 3 years of commencement. The consultants estimated the total cost of the project to be about $81m at January 1974 prices. In common with other standardisation projects which were previously undertaken, the Australian Government is committed to meeting the total initial cost of the project; 70 per cent of the total expenditure will be treated as a nonrepayable grant and the State will repay the remaining 30 per cent of the expenditure plus interest over 50 years. 
I have already mentioned that this project will result in the linking of the last remaining mainland State capital city to the national standard gauge system and I am sure honourable members will recognise the benefits which will accrue nationally from increased efficiency and lower costs resulting from the contruction of this railway. In addition it may be expected that South Australia will benefit substantially from the improved access to markets on both the eastern and western seaboards. I mentioned in dealing with the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway the benefits for the people of the Northern Territory in a uniform gauge railway from Adelaide to Alice Springs. A further point which should not be overlooked will be the added convenience for passengers with the introduction of through running to Adelaide and the elimination of the necessity to change trains for journeys on the Indian Pacific route or to Alice Springs. I am sure this project will have unanimous support. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the ratification by the Parliament of an agreement made between the Australian and South Australian Governments for the construction of a standard gauge railway from Tarcoola on the Trans-Australia Railway, to Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. Honourable members will recall from previous statements I have made in the House that agreements had been reached in April with the South Australian Government for the comstruction of the railway. 
The construction of a line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs was an option open to the Australian Government in the Railways (South Australian) Agreement Act of 1926, but instead the present narrow gauge line from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs was constructed. The possibility of constructing a standard gauge line from Tarcoola was not again considered until 1 966 when the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner took the initiative and examined the advantages of a completely new route. I emphasise that it was the Commissioner who took the initiative and not the then Liberal-Country Party Government. In 1967 he made his report examining 3 alternative proposals but coming out strongly in favour of the new route which is now proposed. At that time the Commissioner was concerned at the very high cost of maintaining the existing narrow gauge railway, the continued disruptions to the service and he was no doubt also influenced by serious flood damage which occurred in 1966. The House will remember that the worst flooding in Central Australia in living memory occurred this year and that services on the Central Australian Railway were virtually suspended for 3 months, with serious consequences for the people of Alice Springs and the Northern Territory. 
In 1968, the then Government decided to investigate the relative merits of an improved road link as against an improved rail link. The resulting study led to the conclusion that the economically preferred course was to go ahead with the standard gauge railway, but that a fully sealed road to Alice Springs was also justified. In July 1970 approval in principle to construct the line was given and negotiations to obtain the consent of the South Australian Government for the construction of that part of the line within the State were begun. These negotiations proved to be protracted and it was not until earlier this year that I was able to finally resolve the numerous difficulties raised by South Australia. The Agreement, which is a schedule to this Bill, was then signed by the Premier and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The State Government has agreed to introduce enabling legislation as soon as possible. 
The new route, approximately 830 kilometres in length from Tarcoola, has been carefully chosen to avoid areas subject to flooding and indeed some minor changes have been made as a result of the exceptional 1974 conditions. Honourable members may appreciate that the construction of the proposed line will be a project of world stature. Commonwealth Railways will be the constructing authority. An amount of $ 145m has been provided in the Bill as the maximum allowed by the legislation and includes provision for minor design changes and some increases in costs that may occur over the duration of the project. It is expected that construction of the line will take about 5 years to complete, however, it is likely that goods will be transferred to road transport at the railhead after 3 years or so. The diversion of some traffic to the new line will relieve the pressure on the narrow gauge section of the present line and improve the service to the Northern Territory at the earliest possible time. 
In addition to the benefits of a high capacity line and freedom from interruptions to the service by floods provided for the Northern Territory by this line, further advantage will come from the construction of the standard gauge link from Adelaide to Crystal Brook which is the subject of separate legislation. This latter line will be constructed at about the same time and will allow the through running of standard gauge trains from Adelaide to Alice Springs. This will eliminate the delays in transit at present caused by the transfer of goods to standard gauge at Port Pirie and then to narrow gauge at Marree. The people of the Territory can look forward to a substantial improvement in the service provided by their railways. I am sure the Bill will receive the support of honourable members on both sides. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Transport, Air Transport Group aircraft fleet comprises three F27s, one HS 125, one DC3, six Merlins, two Aero Commanders, one Cessna 310, one Cessna 170, five Beech Bonanzas, one Piper Aztec and one Piper Cherokee. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Adelaide Airport is capable of handling both the Boeing 747 at reduced operating weights and the Boeing 707. 
Adelaide has been available as an international alternate for some years past. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $2.4m with regard to all new pavements, runway and apron. 
) Moorabbin traffic was- 
211,384 (1970) 
206,934 (1971) 
217,969 (1972) 
254,265 (1973) 
Essendon traffic was- 
-I appreciate the concern of the honourable member for Hume at the state of the Hume Highway. Like him I want to see the road repaired as quickly as possible. On the matter of the paving process developed by, I think, Blue Metal and Gravel Ltd, and called Bitupave, already the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the  President  of the Senate,  Senator O  'Byrne, have spoken to me about it. I have indicated to them that if the company concerned is prepared to - 
-Do you want to answer the question? You used to make a hell of a mess of answers yourself. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Department of Civil Aviation and Airlines Working Group report entitled 'Aircraft Cabin Interior Materials- Flammability, Smoke and Toxicity'. Due to the limited number of copies available at this time I have arranged for reference copies of this report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. Copies of a CSIRO report which forms an appendix to the one now being tabled are available on request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the advertising practices and expenditure of Qantas Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are of critical importance to those airlines in their relations with competitors. 
For this reason, it would seem to be preferable to keep such details confidential. 
Department of Services and Property: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 284) 
The answer to the right honourable members question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. My Department does maintain such a record. 
) See answer to (1). 
See answer to (1). 
Department of Housing and Construction: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 397) 
The answer to the right honourable member's questions are:  (1)231 officers. 
(2) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The membership, timetable and charter of the interdepartmental committees which were established to examine the airport requirements of the capital cities are set out below- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No request has been received from the major domestic airlines for approval for only a one class fare. If an airline, in its own commercial judgement, wishes to submit such a proposition to me, you may be assured that it will be carefully considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been a series of discussions between my Department and the Coober Pedy Progress Association. 
The South Australian Lands Department has assisted in reserving land for the development of the local airstrip to full aerodrome licensing standards. 
However, there remains the problem of a local Government authority or its equivalent accepting the responsibility of an aerodrome licensee, firstly to entitle Coober Pedy to50 per cent Australian Government grants for the economic development and maintenance of their aerodrome, and secondly to report the current state of the aerodrome for air safety purposes. 
The Coober Pedy Progress Association has not yet decided whether it feels equal to that commitment as an aerodrome licensee. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is contained in tables under the following headings: 
. Total Aircraft Activity at Capital City Airports. 
Passenger Movements at Capital City Airports. 
Capital Expenditure at  Major Airports. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The document to which the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition refers is undergoing prepublication editing and its issue is imminent. Supporting technical documentation is well advanced and should be issued within a few weeks. Implementation of the procedures for protection and testing of persons exposed to risk of hearing damage, for specification of noise emission limits in equipments and buildings, for training of Noise Control and Hearing Conservation Officers is almost complete in anticipation of the issue of the documentation. The major staff associations affected have agreed with the principles and most of the details of our program and have agreed to assist us with implementation if required. An employee training course designed to educate noise-exposed persons to the hazards of noise and to methods of prevention of hearing damage is in an advanced stage or preparation. 
Arrangements will be made to forward 4 copies of the Administrative Order and Instruction to the parliamentary library immediately the document is produced. The draft Order has been widely circulated to the ACTU and 18 unions and I shall be pleased to let the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition have a copy if he so wishes. 
-I have already had a report from my Department on the incident that occurred in the course of that TAA flight yesterday. I am pleased to see that the honourable member is here with us today and that he apparently had enough sense to do up his seat belt and to leave it done up. I think most air travellers have to realise today that it is essential when travelling in an aeroplane to leave one's seat belt on. A lot of people think that they are brave and all sort of things by undoing their seat belts. Regularly, when an aeroplane takes off, one hears the click of seat belts being let go. Personally, my seat belt is on from the time I sit down in an aircraft until that aircraft touches down. (Opposition supporters interjecting.) 
-I might be a 'nervous Nellie', but it is better to be a live coward than a dead hero. At least honourable members will note that on most aeroplanes today, from the time the plane takes off, the pilot does issue the warning to passengers to leave their seat belts done up. The honourable member wants to know what is being done. The Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department is inquiring into the incident. I will give the honourable member a report as soon as I receive one from my Department. 
in reply- The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  raised 3 points on which he sought assurances which I am quite happy to give. Firstly I would like to correct one miscalculation on the estimated cost of the 'Baron Cawdor', which is the ship which will be operating in the Christmas Island trade. We estimate that the extra cost will be about $1.2m and not $3m to $4m as has been suggested. I thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for his contribution to this debate. I can assure him that as a result of his kind and gentle speech he will get a Christmas card this year. This Bill incorporates amendments dealing with financial provisions to entitle the Commission to be reimbursed for losses on services undertaken at my direction in accordance with section 17 of the principal Act. The proposed amendments are designed to bring the Act into line with legislation concerning other statutory authorities. The Public Accounts Committee, of which you were a member for many years,  Mr Speaker,  has advocated greater uniformity in the financial provisions for statutory authorities generally. Similar amendments were incorporated, for instance, in the 1971 amendments to the Overseas Telecommunications Act. That is the line being followed now and that is the basis for the amendments. 
The honourable member for Gippsland sought some assurances with respect to clause 1 6. In some respect of paragraphs (a) and (b) he wants an. assurance concerning long term bond rates. I am happy to assure him and the Opposition that the Treasurer will lend money to the ANL on the long term bond rate. The Commission will be required to pay interest at not less than the long term bond rate on any money the Treasurer lends it. I shall be moving in the Committee stages to delete paragraph (c) of clause 16. The honourable member for Gippsland also sought an assurance with respect to clause 17 which permits the Commission to invest money not immediately required in any manner approved by the Treasurer. Honourable members will appreciate that in any well run business there are funds temporarily in hand which must be invested to maintain some return. The existing provisions of the Act are very restrictive and relate to fixed deposits, Commonwealth securities or loans upon the security of the Commonwealth. It is desired to put the Commission more on a par with business generally, but still under the Treasurer's oversight. Honourable members may be assured that the Commission will not be allowed to grow into some sort of business octopus by some backdoor methods. It will be required to observe general business notions on temporary investment of surplus funds and to keep within the functions and powers set out in the Act. 
The honourable member for Gippsland referred also to clause 18 which sets out the items properly chargeable against the Commission's revenue. In bringing this part of the Act into line with legislation relating to other statutory authorities regard has been paid to other provisions in the Act. Expenditure charged against revenue must be properly chargeable. The Commission must keep proper accounts in accordance with accounting principles generally applied in commercial practice. The AuditorGeneral must report on whether the Commission's accounts fairly show the financial operations of the Commission. The reports of the Commission and of the Auditor-General must be tabled. Honourable members may be assured that the Commission will not charge capital expenditure against revenue other than in accordance with the normal commercial practice of charging depreciation against revenue. I trust that the assurances I have given the Opposition on these proposed amendments are satisfactory and may save debate in the Committee stages. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13 (Powers of Minister in relation to shipping services). 
The Government accepts the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  We have no worries about making clear to the Parliament and to the people any direction given to the Australian National Line. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 14 and 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-section (2) and (3) and substituting the following sub-section:- "(2) The Treasurer may, on behalf of Australia, out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes, lend to the Commission, at such rate of interest and on such other terms and conditions as he determines, moneys that the Commission is authorized to borrow under sub-section ( 1 ). "; 
by omitting from sub-section (S) the words ", with the concurrence of the Minister, "; and 
by omitting sub-section (7). 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (c). 
Clause 1 6 amends section 30 of the principal Act. Paragraph (c) proposed the omission of subsection (7) of section 30. This amendment was incorporated in the Bill because it was believed that sub-section (7) of section 30 was redundant. That sub-section provides that moneys borrowed by the Commission do not form part of the capital of the Commission. Section 29 of the principal Act provides that interest is not payable to the Commonwealth on the capital of the Commission. Although section 30 is clear and provides that interest will be paid on moneys which the Treasurer lends to the Commission it might be argued that the deletion of sub-section (7) would enable the Commission to treat borrowings as capital and so avoid payment of interest. In order to put the matter beyond doubt I move this amendment which will retain sub-section (7) of section 30 in the principal Act. 
I move: 
After sub-section (3) of proposed section 36 insert the following sub-sections: "(4) The Commission is not a public authority for the purposes of paragraph (d) of section 23 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1974. "(5) The Commission is not a public transport authority for the purposes of item 77 in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1973". 
Clause 19 of the Bill amends section 36 of the principal Act to bring it more into line with other legislation on statutory authorities. Although the new section 36 in clause 19 says that the Commission is subject to taxation under the laws of Australia there is a loophole. This loophole is in the Income Tax Assessment Act and the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. Unless the Bill is suitably amended the Commission will enjoy public authority exemption under these other 2 Acts. This was never the Government's intention and results from an administrative oversight. The implications of the separate tax laws were not brought under notice until after the printing of the Bill. In order to rectify this omission from the Bill I have moved the amendment to deny the public authority taxation exemptions to the Commission. The Commission will accordingly continue to be liable for income and sales taxes. 
As a result of the amendments which have been agreed to it is necessary now to amend the Schedule. I move: 
In paragraph 1 , before '33(3)', insert '30(7),'. 
This is only a drafting amendment, as I have already outlined. I also move: 
In paragraph 2, after ' 1 3 ( 4), ', insert ' 30 ( 7 ), '. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I will be very brief. I express my appreciation to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  When he talks on railways and related transport matters he is always worth listening to. I wish I could say the same for the rest of his speeches. 
-I am not being nasty. Everyone knows that to be a statement of fact. On railways he is particularly good, and I will look at the points he has raised, because like him I am interested in transport and anxious to make sure we have the best form of transport in this country. We have a large country with a small population and long distances to cover. Therefore, when people put forward propositions that are worthy of consideration, I think they should be examined, and that is what I propose to do. 
I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He claimed to have made 9 speeches between 1963 and 1969 on this subject. The former Government, which was in office for 23 years, did not take much notice of him, did it,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? It did not take any notice of him whatsoever on that score. The same thing could probably be said about the former honourable member for Grey. It was when the present honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  exerted an influence on what was taking place that things started to happen. 
We have heard a lot of talk about what the former Government was going to do. As I have said so often, it was a team of 'gonna's'. It was always 'gonna' do something but it never got around to it. In 16 months the Minister for Transport in South Australia,  Mr Virgo,  and I were able to straighten out the problems that existed between the South Australian and Australian Governments in relation to the TarcoolaAlice Springs railway and also the standardisation of the line from Adelaide to Crystal Brook. I give due credit to Geoff Virgo for the manner in which he went about the task. We both set about finding solutions where there were hold-ups, and we found them. The result was that in April of this year we reached agreement on these 2 issues. The result is that today there is a Bill before the House for which we are seeking the approval of the Opposition. It is obvious the Bill will go through without opposition because everyone has spoken in favour of it. The former Government was going to do it. We did it. That is the whole sorry story of the Liberal and Country Parties' 23 years in government. 
The question of the amount of money that has been allocated was raised. The advice given to me was that that is the maximum amount that can be spent in this financial year. That is what will be spent, and if there is any need for any more money to be allocated, we will ask the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  for it and I am certain it will be forthcoming. Mention was made of continuing the railway line north of Alice Springs. As the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line is nearing completion a study will be conducted, for which sufficient time will be allowed, to determine the economics of continuing the line north from Alice Springs. That assurance has been given previously by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and by me, and I give it again. When the job has to be done we will determine what shall be done by way of a detailed study by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-It is true that I have received a very long telegram from  Sir Charles  Cutler, the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and Highways, stating that some 3,086 employees would be retrenched unless the Australian Government immediately provided funds to allow work to proceed. If  Sir Charles  does not know that his government still has not supplied details of the cash it needs, I believe it is about time that he had a look at his own records and talked to his own officials in order to get the facts of the matter. He should know that other States have already received some $53,979,000 in interim financial grants. Despite repeated inquiries from the Department of the Treasury for details we have not yet received an answer from  Sir Charles;  yet he says that it is a lack of finance, allegedly caused by the actions of the Australian Government, which is causing him to give notice of termination of employment to employees of the Department of Main Roads. I think that what he should be doing is trying to pull the other leg because he is certainly not doing much good with his story at this point as the facts are all against him. 
If I may, I will give the real position. This chamber was called together on Friday, 23 August, for a special sitting to consider 3 pieces of legislation. One was the Trade Practices Bill. The others were the 2 roads Bills; we knew that these were important to the States and that we should get on with the job. These 2 Bills were finally passed by the Senate on 17 September and on 20 September they received the royal assent. Three days after that we called a meeting in Canberra between officials of my department and the State roads commissioners at which we explained to them just what was required of them. We outlined to the commissioners the details of the Acts. The payment procedures for interim grants were explained to them in detail. So when we look at the real position we find that the States have had the facts put before them. Other States have availed themselves of the opportunity to obtain finance but New South Wales has not been prepared to do so. We have had discussions with not only the State roads commissioners but also local government authorities throughout Australia and we have explained to them what they have to do and what we are expecting of them. 
It is an absolute scandal that the New South Wales Government is still declining to be one of the recipients of the money that is available. It can get it easily by providing limited information to the Department of the Treasury of the balances in its road funds as at 30 June of this year and how much it has spent since then. I have already indicated that $53,979,000 has been made available to other States but New South Wales has elected not to participate. Being concerned about the termination of the employment of so many employees, I have already sent a telegram to  Sir Charles  offering to explain the legislation to him if he does not understand it. I am even prepared to go to the extent of seeking the approval of the Opposition Whip for a pair tonight so that I may go to Sydney to meet  Sir Charles  and discuss with him the financial problems so that these people will not be laid off. It is bis fault and he must accept the responsibility for it. 
-I would be happy to, if I had any information on it. To the best of my knowledge I have none. There is no departmental record of this. 
-Let us get on to common ground. When the honourable member refers to die 'Noongah' fund, I assume that he is talking about the fund which the Seamen's Union of Australia was able to establish by collections from its members and money raised by other methods, I understand, from other people. I know of only one instance in which it was able to obtain money from a shipping company. As to what it got from all the shipping companies, I would not have a clue. As to what its members contributed, I have no information. If there is any means by which we can obtain the details, I will examine it. If I have the authority to obtain the information, I will obtain it for the honourable member. 
-As far as the proposed National Road Safety Authority is concerned, the point has been reached where the Cabinet has decided that it should be located at Albury-Wodonga. We are having discussions with the Department of Urban and Regional Development as to its exact location. What I want to do is to establish it in conjunction with other transport modes so that there will be a complete transport operation. Whether it is to be adjacent to the railway siding that is being built at Albury-Wodonga or whether it is to be adjacent to the airport, which I hope is to be relocated, are some of the things that are being examined at the present moment. As far as cost is concerned, it will cost something like $10m or $12m. It will deal with road safety, the standard of vehicles, emission control and that type of thing. It is well advanced. All we have to do is get a priority for it. After the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I have determined the exact location in Albury-Wodonga, it will be a case of getting a priority for it, having in mind that the Minister for Services and Property has announced that already something like, I think, ISO Bills have to be disposed of during this session. 
-It is not a question of putting it up at the top. It is a question of getting it in its correction location. This is important. As far as I am concerned we want to regard the proposed Authority as part of the total transport complex, an objective which is in accord with the policy of the Government. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Department of Transport, Air Safety Investigation Branch, accident investigation report on the collision between a De Havilland Dove and Twin Comanche aircraft near Bankstown, New South Wales, on 13 March 1974. Due to the limited number of copies available I have arranged for copies of this report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to appropriate funds for allocation to the States under the Urban Public Transport Agreement for a further series of projects directed towards the upgrading of their urban public transport systems. The amount to be appropriated is $66.11 million, of which $27.85 million is expected to be allocated in 1974-75 and the remainder during the balance of the program. The funds are additional to the $71.91 million allocated under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974. It means that in the first two years of the Australian Government's five year assistance program, $138.02 million has been allocated to the States by way of grants to improve our major cities' transport systems. The series of projects approved for commencement in 1974-75 and details of the phasing of total expenditure are: 
I seek leave to incorporate a lengthy table which sets out just what the program is. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek authority for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to guarantee, on behalf of the Australian Government, loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries to finance the purchase of 2 Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. These aircraft will comprise the fifth and sixth aircraft of this type to be operated by the company. Each of the major domestic airlines, TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries currently operates 12 DC9, 6 Boeing 727-100 and 4 Boeing 727-200. Each airline is acquiring an additional 2 Boeing 727-200 aircraft. This is the larger and later version of the Boeing 727-100 aircraft. They are planned for delivery in November 1974 and April 1975. 
Such aircraft are required to cater for the continuing traffic growth on the trunk routes. They have a noise level which is acceptable for that generation of aircraft. They are quieter than the earlier Boeing 727-100 models in use in this country. Nevertheless, I expect the Australian airlines to provide the community with the most suitable modern aircraft types. Hence, I look forward to the earlier practicable introduction of wide-bodied jets, together with the greatest possible spreading of timetables. 
In more detail, the wide bodied jets are particularly attractive for our domestic airline purposes because they are noticeably quieter than the present jets in operation here. It will be recalled that this Government has taken definite steps to ensure an alleviation of the noise nuisance to people living near airports, particularly when the noise occurs at night. Another favourable consideration is that the greater passenger capacity of wide body aircraft, which will be used on the very high density routes, will enable airline schedules to be reduced, say to a level of once every 2 hours for each airline between Sydney and Melbourne. With sensible timetabling a resultant spread on this route could provide the public with a service every hour without parallel flights. I see no reason why services on other routes should not become more attractive also. 
Another real benefit of wide bodied aircraft is that they are less demanding on energy and resources. Fuel required per passenger/kilometre on these larger aircraft will be less than that on present airline aircraft. This cost saving will not necessarily result in lower fares but should retard the rate of future fare increases. When wide bodied aircraft are purchased by the airlines we will be looking to the overseas manufacturers for offset procurement arrangement satisfactory to the Government. For the present purpose that is, the purchase of 2 727-200 aircraft by Ansett, the overseas manufacturer, Boeing, is providing offset arrangements equivalent to 10 per cent of the purchase price. I might add that to date Boeing has, in respect of its total offset commitments, placed orders totalling A$25m with the Australian manufacturing industry and is keeping well ahead of its commitments. I understand that Boeing is satisfied with its part of the deal including the quality and delivery rate of Australian manufactured aircraft components. 
The Australian Government is currently proposing to raise loans of US$1 9m for TAA which would comprise 80 per cent of the purchase price of its 2 additional aircraft and spares. Ansett has sought a Government guarantee for its comparable loan of US$1 9m for the same purpose. The Australian Government, in its even handed attitude to the 2 airline policy, is willing to grant the privileges of a Government guarantee to the Ansett organisation for this purpose, subject, of course, to the approval of Parliament. 
Furthermore, I would be delighted to receive the same co-operation from the Ansett organisation in respect to TAA's entry into Western Australian services. It is an absolute disgrace that Ansett, by producing lengthy and phoney submissions is able to use a Commission to delay TAA's entry into Western Australia and by taking out injunctions in the Victorian Supreme Court. That entry would result in huge savings for the people of Western Australia- a State where air travel's advantage can be used to the maximum. Under the present monopoly situation MacRobertson Miller Airlines Ltd offers only one fare and TAA will offer first and economy class with the economy fares 20 per cent below current MMA fares. An example of fare savings is: From Perth to Port Hedland, a saving of $48.20 on a return ticket; and from Perth to Darwin, a saving of $85.40 on a return ticket. 
In the area of freight, people and companies will be offered standard rate for air cargo instead of having to pay the higher express cargo rate. Add to this the extra freight carrying capacity of the DC9 aircraft-2,182 kilos more than the F28. It is time Ansett Transport Industries stopped this humbug, withdrew its opposition and gave the people of Western Australia an even handed 2-airline system to which they are entitled. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on the motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Act imposes charges on the operators of aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airways facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services provided,, operated and maintained by the Australian Government. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates of air navigation charges, and to make other changes in the Act which the Government feels to be desirable. 
In 1973-74, the cost of providing, operating and maintaining air navigation faculties and services throughout Australia amounted to $140m. Revenue received from the users of those facilities and services totalled $75m. Of this amount, $33m came from air navigation charges paid by aircraft operators, $ 11.5m from hangar and building rentals and terminal concession charges and the like, and $30.5m from aviation fuel taxes. This left a deficit between revenue and expenditure of $65m, a deficit which the Australian taxpayer was called upon to bear. Put another way, the Australian taxpayer was asked to pay more than $6 for each passenger who travelled by air within, to or from Australia. 
In 1960, the then Liberal-Country Party Government adopted as a long term objective the eventual full recovery of the cost of air transport facilities provided by the Government. That Government set no target for achieving its objective, either in full or in part. Last year, this Government decided to accelerate the cost recovery program. It decided on a policy aimed at raising the then unsatisfactory rate of recovery- something like 49 per cent- to 80 per cent by 1978. This, despite recent speculation that the timetable has been stepped up to achieve the recovery aim by next year or the year after, is the Government's clearly defined 5-year target. In progressively increasing these we are not being unfair. In the marine field we have a total cost recovery policy on navigation aids. Last year, this Government succeeded in raising the recovery rate to 54 per cent. There is still a long way to go. 
Basic to this approach, and equally applicable to all transport modes, is that the user and the beneficiary should pay. The Government cannot accept that the general taxpayer must subsidise people who travel. To this end, the Bill provides for an increase of 15 per cent in air navigation charges. These higher charges will become effective from 1 December 1974. They are payable 'across the board', that is, by all operators, domestic and international, making use of our facilities and services. General aviation makes heavy demands on aviation facilities and on the funds to provide and maintain them. Special aerodromes for general aviation aircraft, Archerfield, Bankstown, Cambridge, Essendon, Jandakot, Moorabbin and Parafield, have been provided in all capital cities- by the taxpayer. Last year, these aerodromes alone cost $10m to operate and maintain. In addition, facilities have been provided at other airports largely for general aviation aircraft, things like light aircraft aprons and taxiways, traffic control and flight service units, communications and fire units. 
In 1954, there were 168 airline aircraft in Australia. By 1974, this number had fallen to 138. In sharp contrast, in the same period, the number of general aviation aircraft increased from 677 to 4,012. The airlines flew some 265,000 hours in 1954, and the same in 1974-a reflection of greatly increased productivity through the operation of larger and faster aircraft. But hours flown in general aviation increased almost ninefold, from 145,000 in 1954 to 1.3 million in 1974. About 30 per cent of this represents private and business flying. Light aircraft movements at most airports throughout Australia have increased more rapidly in the last 20 years than airline movements. Last year, Tamworth had about 7,000 airline movements, and 30,000 light aircraft movements. Canberra had 21,000 airline movements and 42,000 light aircraft movements. General aviation places an exceptionally heavy demand on our airways and airport facilities. The Government believes that the contribution which general aviation makes towards the cost of those facilities should be more closely related to the demands which this section of the aviation industry places upon them. 
Honourable members might be surprised to learn that at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, for instance, an estimated cost allocation for 1973-74 shows that the domestic airlines contributed some 77 per cent- $9. 7m- of the costs attributable to their own operations, international airlines also contributed some 77 per cent or $ 1 1 . 1 m towards the cost of their own operations, whereas general aviation only contributed some 0.4 per cent towards the cost of their own operations at that centre. I might add that the general aviation cost in this context was calculated on the basis that it was the minimum unavoidable increment to cater for these aircraft at Sydney airport. Such things as general runway costs and interest and depreciation were not included. Accordingly, the cost was the lowest cost that could reasonably be calculated. Despite the large expenditure on facilities for general aviation, all that the Government recovered last year from general aviation operators was about $5m- just half of what it cost to operate and maintain the general aviation airports in the 6 capital cities alone. 
It is proposed, therefore, to increase the charges payable by general aviation operators. The charges in respect to general aviation aircraft weighing less than 9,000 kilograms will be increased by an additional 50 per cent over and above the basic 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges. Aircraft above 9,000 kilograms, on which higher additional charges were imposed last year, will not be subject to this increase. At the same time, the amount of remission granted on aircraft not ordinarily kept at government aerodromes, or aerodromes in receipt of government financial assistance, will be increased from one-third to one-half of the charges payable. A small but active element is emerging in general aviation which places few demands on the aviation infrastructure. I refer to aircraft enthusiasts who have a hobby concerned with historical aircraft. Owners of private aircraft of an historical nature, used for pleasure and not for the purpose of personal transportation, may apply to the Department for special consideration in regard to the level of their charges. I am referring to those few historical aircraft that are kept on the register from time to time and which would fly some 20 to 30 hours only in any year. 
While on the subject of special groups, I should add that the 1 5 per cent across the board increase that I mentioned earlier does not apply to very small aircraft with weights less than 500 kilograms. However, the 50 per cent increase does apply. It is proposed to impose additional charges on foreign-registered aircraft used for private or aerial work purposes in Australia. These aircraft will be subject to an additional charge, over and above the basic 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges, of 50 per cent and 25 per cent respectively. No additional charges are proposed for aircraft in the international charter category. 
The proposed increases in air navigation charges are expected to yield an additional revenue of $3m in the remainder of the current financial year, and $6m in a full 12 months. This estimate takes no account of traffic growth, which may be expected to result in a higher additional revenue. Certain other changes in the Air Navigation (Charges) Act are proposed. They will have no significant effect on revenue, but are desirable to facilitate the administration of the charging system. 
It has been suggested that the Government's cost recovery program, and its effect on air navigation charges, is forcing domestic air fares upward. Whilst this could be true to some extent, it should be noted that increases in air navigation charges have been no more than 1 5 per cent at the most a year. In any case, only 2.8 per cent of the recent domestic fare increase can be attributed to increases in air navigation charges and 7.5 per cent to fuel tax. Some 78 per cent of the latest fare increase represented nothing more than a response to the significant wage increases affecting the airlines. 
We should not exaggerate the cost burden of air navigation charges on air travel, domestic or international. Air navigation charges paid by Trans Australia Airlines amounted to about $6.7m in 1973-74. Its total costs exceed $150m. In percentage terms, air navigation charges . represented some 4 per cent only of the airline's total cost. Perhaps the following simple illustration will place these charges in their proper perspective: If air navigation charges were reduced by half, the cost of a journey between Sydney and Melbourne could be reduced at the most by about 70c, and of a journey between Sydney and San Francisco by $9- at a cost to the taxpayer of about $ 1 6m. 
It is often claimed that Australian air navigation charges are amongst the highest in the world. Let there be absolute clarity about this: Our charges are all-inclusive. Charges in many countries are not. Landing charges are only one of several charges and taxes, payable by the airlines and their passengers, which affect the cost of operating to and from other countries. For example, on top of the landing charge for a Boeing 747 of $A449 at Honolulu there is a communications charge of $A53, a passenger holding area charge of $A25, a baggage claim area charge of $A13, a customs overtime charge of $A48, plus a United States transportation charge, paid by the passenger of $3 per head. At an absolute minimum, these costs would total $1,096. At San Francisco, where the landing fee for a Boeing 747 is $216, the communications charge is $31, passenger holding area charge is $109, plus amortisation and interest on the capital expenditure made there by Qantas of $193, a baggage claim area charge of $41, customs overtime $137, United States transportation tax of $3 per head, once again paid by the passenger, plus a San Mateo County property tax of $ 1 34. These costs could total $1,369 at the absolute minimum. This compares with an airline terminating in Sydney which is charged a total of $2,9 12. 
May I say that Australian air navigation charges are based on a consistent pricing structure for both domestic and international airlines. Further, there is absolutely no discrimination, in the treatment given, between our own international airline and any other international airline, or between any international airlines. The increased charges for which this Bill provides are a further step towards the eventual recovery of 80 per cent of the costs involved inmaintaining our aviation infrastructure. But increased revenue is not the Government's sole concentration in this area. The Government is rigorously pruning every cost associated with that infrastructure. The Department of Transport is critically reviewing all of its air transport activities with a view to effecting economies wherever they can be made in consultation with the airlines , the general aviation industry and representatives of the various employee organisations concerned. In addition the provision of services at the less busy provincial centres is being examined in order to effect further cost savings. As an example, flight service units have been withdrawn from Flinders Island, Woomera and Mangalore at a saving of about $60,000 a year. In addition fire services have been withdrawn from Mangalore, Derby, Narromine and Broken Hill at a saving of about $ 100,000. 
The Department of Transport believes that to justify the retention of these costly facilities, the airports where they are located should cater for certain minimum traffic demands. In the case of fire services and rescue facilities, it believes that, as a minimum, aerodromes should be served by F27 aircraft, should handle at least 8 regular movements a day and cater to at least 25,000 passengers a year. In the case of flight service units, the aerodrome should accommodate at least 12,000 aircraft movements a year. Naturally there are other factors which will influence any decision to withdraw such existing facilities at aerodromes as do not meet these basic minimum requirements. The gap is being narrowed from the cost side. The Australian community will no longer have to bear the cost of inefficient allocation of resources. 
The Government will achieve a balanced, coordinated transport system with a proper allocation of resources based on demonstrated community needs. It will achieve a system in which every transport method performs the role for which it is best suited, to provide the maximum benefit to the nation. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
-On 24 September the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  directed a question to me concerning Commonwealth Railways freight rate increases in the Northern Territory and their effects on the economy of the Territory. At that time I promised I would give him a reply but until this point it has not been possible for me to give him it in the House. It is true that the Commonwealth Railways has increased its freight charges by 40 per cent on livestock, by 15 to 35 per cent on some building materials and by 10 per cent on bulk fuel as stated by the honourable member. However, it is a complete fabrication by him to suggest that these increases were imposed by the Commonwealth Railways as 'another vicious attack on the people of the outback' and it was 'a continuation of the vindictive attitude of the socialist government in an endeavour to smash private enterprise and, in so doing, to injure all classes of people living in these outback areas'. That is typical of the type of distorted questions with which Ministers in this House have to contend. 
Such misstatement of fact concerning the Australian Government's policies is typical of the irresponsible statements that are continually being made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory to Territorians in an attempt to direct their attention away from the many progressive initiatives taken by this Government and, in particular, by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  It is also typical of him that while he complains of increases in Commonwealth Railways charges he is strangely silent about increases imposed by private enterprise transport operators. He is always also very careful not to compare Commonwealth Railways charges with those of the private road operators. For example, Co-ord Ltd in its contract with the Commonwealth Railways increased its road rates by an average of 26 per cent on 1 June 1973, by 8.7 per cent on 1 September 1974 and by 7.7 per cent on 1 October 1 974. In respect of insulating material and plastic pipes the percentage increase in its charges since June 1973 has been 20 per cent. 
-It is remarkable that the honourable member for Farrer should make such an interjection. I say to him: 'When you interject, for heavens sake know what you are talking about. As a Minister you did not know'. The honourable member referred to the increase in petrol prices but the price differential did not come into operation until after the date to which I have just referred. When road and rail rates are compared the low level of Commonwealth Railways charges is particularly noticeable. Some specific examples are as follows: For the carriage of livestock from Alice Springs to Port Pirie the cost per semi-trailer load is $690 whereas the equivalent bogie van load by rail costs $242.65c; a semi-trailer load of livestock by road over 502 kilometres costs $376.50 whereas a similar load over a similar distance by Northern Australian Railways costs $149.40. Do I hear any more interjections? The cartage of bulk fuel by road over 1,001 kilometres costs $39.79 per tonne as compared with the rail charge of $20.01 per tonne. The cost of transporting cement from Port Pirie to Alice Springs is $59.89 per tonne or $31.09 per tonne in 20 tonne lots. The comparable charges by rail are $22.09 and $21.23 per tonne respectively. 
In the Commonwealth Railways financial statements for 1973-74 which I tabled in the House on 26 September it was shown that the railways lost $7,205,726 as compared with $3,246,571 in the previous year. In these circumstances it is ludicrous to suggest that any increase in charges was a vicious attack on the people in the outback. No industry can absorb losses of this magnitude without affecting its continued operations. If the honourable member for the Northern Territory wishes to see the Commonwealth Railways continue to accumulate losses of this magnitude he would be doing a disservice to the Territory. To see the results of such a policy one has only to look at the State railways with their huge losses, inefficient rolling stock, poor tracks and inefficient services. 
We, as a government, are committed to a policy of improving transport services to the Northern Territory. For instance, although the Liberal Country Party government, of which the honourable member was a member, was in office for 23 years it did nothing of its own volition in respect of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. It was the 
Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways who had to take the initiative and examine the advantages of a completely new route. After that it was then up to the Liberal-Country Party Government to reach agreement with the South Australian Government for the construction of this line. Even to that extent it failed miserably. Since we became the Government we have reached agreement with South Australia for the construction of this line. On 2 October 1974 I introduced the Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway Bill 1974 into this Parliament and only this week it was passed through this House and the Senate. That Bill seeks the ratification of the agreement reached between the Australian and South Australian Governments. It is estimated that the railway line will cost $145m to build. Funds have been provided in the 1974-75 Budget for the initial planning and construction of the line. 
In addition, the present Australian Government has increased the assistance for roads from $868m for the 3-year period 1971 to 1974 to $l,126m for the 3-year period 1974 to 1977. It is interesting to note that the rural-urban distribution of funds under the previous roads arrangements of the Liberal-Country Party Government was 47 per cent for rural roads as against 53 per cent for urban roads. Under the current arrangements, the ratio of the distribution is 61 per cent for rural roads and 39 per cent for urban roads. One never stops listening to complaints, whingeing and whining from members of the Australian Country Party that expenditure on rural roads has been reduced. 
I ask them to examine the facts. If they do so, they will get one clear result: It is that this Government has made greater sums of money available for rural roads than the Country Party did when it was in government for 23 years. Honourable members also should take into consideration the $400m which has been allocated for maintenance and construction of national highways. Included in this category of roads will be the Port Augusta-Alice Springs road which was ignored completely by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. What did honourable members opposite do about the construction of that road? For 23 years they had the opportunity to do something about the road, but they did not do one thing about it. In the 1974-75 Budget the total outlay for rural industry was $487m. This is some $150m more than the last Liberal-Country Party Government provided for rural industry. 
From these few instances it is obvious that the honourable member's claim that the present Australian Government is working against the interests of the rural sector and the people in the Northern Territory in particular is a complete fabrication. This Government is concerned with the people of the Northern Territory. For that reason we have got on with the job of providing a rail service at freight rates which are fair and reasonable and which compare more than favourably with the freight rates that are charged by the private enterprise road operators. Do the members of the Country Party want to transfer the rail system to private enterprise? Do they want to see the exorbitant charges that are imposed upon the people in the Northern Territory by private enterprise or do they want to retain the Australian Commonwealth Railways with its fair and reasonable freight charges to which they, as members of the Parliament, have access? Honourable members have a right to question, as did the honourable member for the Northern Territory, my decision and the decision of the Government to increase freight rates which do not even reach half the rate charged by private enterprise road operators. I am certain that any fair-minded reasonable thinking person in the Northern Territory would be quite happy to have the Commonwealth Railways operating and providing a service at a reasonable freight rate. Even though we have increased the freight rate, the railways will still operate at a loss. Is that persecution of the Northern Territorians? Of course it is not. The freight rate is fair and reasonable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Report referred to is Traffic Accident Research Unit Report 5/70: Deaths on Motor Cycles- a study of 120 fatalities. 
Detailed statistics are not readily available for other States except Victoria where it appears that approximately three-quarters of all motor cycle accidents occur within builtup areas. 
Yes. 
At present the National Road Traffic Code, endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council, provides for a 70 km/h limit for motor cyclists carrying pillion passengers. This limit has been adopted by South Australia, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory while Victoria has a 80 km/h limit. The other States and the Northern Territory have no specific limits for motor cyclists. 
Following the repeal of the New South Wales limit from 30 July 1971, the Australian Transport Advisory Council asked its Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes to examine the necessity of the limit. Based on examination of the available data, the Committee has been unable to justify deletion of the limit. Further information is however still being sought and the matter is still under consideration. 
Meat Imports from New Zealand  (Question No. 990) 
-Some months ago I indicated to honourable members that I was having discussions with the airlines in an endeavour to get them to break up their scheduling so that an aeroplane from each airline would not be taking off or landing at almost the same time. As late as last Friday week I had a meeting with  Sir Reginald  Ansett and  Mr Pascoe,  his airline's General Manager in Melbourne and again raised the subject with them. Like the honourable member for Phillip, I am concerned at the parallel scheduling of airline flights and intend to continue to apply pressure to the airlines in an endeavour to get them to break up this parallel system which has been in existence for some considerable time. As a result of the pressure that has been put on the airlines over the last 20 months there has been some breakdown in the number of parallel scheduled flights and it is having an effect on them, but it is not going as well as I expected. 
I thank the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for his contribution to the debate. Like him I have had a look at the display in King's Hall. I have also had a paper given to me on it. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  insisted during the dinner adjournment that I should go and inspect the display. I did so. I will be having a further look at it to see what practical application the scheme would have. 
I wish to deal first of all with the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who came into this chamber ranting and raving like a wounded bull about what the Liberal and Country Parties are going to do for Tasmania. Firstly let me get one thing clear. When the Australian Shipping Commission Bill, which is vital to Tasmania, was being debated in the House last week the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was conspicuous by his absence and the honourable members from Tasmania were conspicuous by their participation in the debate on the Bill. That was the time to be in this chamber. That was the time when the honourable members from Tasmania were present. That was the time when they put the Tasmanian point of view. They not only put it then but they also had been putting it to me in no uncertain terms for several weeks before the Bill was introduced into this chamber. But on no occasion did I have any Liberal or Country Party senator from Tasmania bother to come and talk to me about it or put a point of view on it on behalf of Tasmania. So the manner in which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came into this chamber and contributed to this debate shows just what a typical humbug he is. That is all he is when he comes into this chamber and talks in that manner. 
Let us have a look at what the Government has done for Tasmania. That is what counts, not what the Opposition is going to do. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government was always going to do something. As I have said on numerous occasions the spokesman for the LiberalCountry Party on this matter was a .....---, He was always ,-I......' do something but he never got around to it and he is not going to get the chance to become a . -'--Il , again. As to what the present Government has done for Tasmania, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated quite clearly during the 1972 election campaign that there was a problem of freight rates as far as Tasmania was concerned. We did something about it. In the first Budget we presented to this Parliament we set aside $lm to subsidise the 'Empress of Australia ' so as to bring it into at least a viable position. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government was in office for 23 years. What did it do about the 'Empress of Australia' during the years in which it is was losing money and looked a stone living certainty to be taken off the run? It did nothing. We did. That is the difference between the Liberal and Country Parties and us. We did something; they did not. 
We have appointed the Nimmo Commission to investigate what is the most practical method of assisting Tasmania to overcome its freight problems. We are not going to pull something out of the air, which was the practice of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. We want to do things in the right way, the most effective way. There is only one way in which to do them and that is the way in which we are going about doing them. Let us have a look at the subject of freight rate increases. Certainly we increased freight rates by 25 per cent for Aus.tralian National Line runs around the coast. We did it everywhere. But when one has a look at the facts and figures on this matter one will see that we were completely justified in doing so. When one comes to consider the Nimmo Commission's report and when one comes to deal with Tasmania one should never forget one important thing, that is, that earlier this year, as a result of various cost increases which they had incurred, the port authorities on the north coast of Tasmania decided to increase port charges. We put the proposition to them that they should hold their increases in port charges until after the Nimmo Commission had reported. They were not prepared to be in it. Apparently it is not good enough for the port authorities to have to hang on to increases in port charges but it is good enough for us to have to hang on and not do anything until the Nimmo Commission presents it report. 
Let us have a look at the real facts. In doing so I am not going back years and years; I am dealing with the last 2 years in which the LiberalCountry Party Government was in office and the first 2 years in which we have been in office and am comparing the freight rate changes in that period. I will again quote the figures for the benefit of honourable members. In August 1970 there was a 12.5 per cent increase in all Tasmanian trade freight rates. In July 1971 there was a 12.5 per cent increase in Sydney to Tasmania freight rates and an 8 per cent increase in Melbourne to Sydney freight rates. In August 1972 there was an increase in the freight rate for dense cargo between Sydney and Tasmania of 12 per cent and between Melbourne and Tasmania of 25 per cent; there was a 20 per cent surcharge imposed on hazardous cargo; and there was a 17 per cent newsprint increase, removal of a 22 per cent concession on heavy cargo and removal of an 18 per cent concession on industrial machinery. Those freight rate increases were put through by the Liberal-Country Party Government in the last 2 years in which it was in office, that is, between August 1970 and December 1972. Yet we had the humbug of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition coming into this chamber and putting over the point of view he did about what the Liberal and Country Parties are going to do as far as Tasmania is concerned. They did plenty for Tasmania when they were in office. If honourable members examine those freight rate increases they will see just what are the facts. 
-It is perfectly true that we have withdrawn the air subsidy; but the government of which the honourable member for Gippsland was a member commenced to do the same. In 1960 the previous Government decided to phase out air subsidies. It was doing it and we kept on doing what it was doing. Is that a crime? It is interesting to have regard to some of the subsidies that were paid. For every $1 revenue there was a subsidy of $8.50. This is what the honourable member for Gippsland is talking about. Does he want to perpetuate that sort or subsidy? It is absolutely ridiculous that that sort of system should apply. We removed the air freight subsidy to Tasmania the same as we did everywhere else. I repeat- the previous Government was doing it and we continued what it was doing. They are the facts. Today we approved a new carrier on the King IslandLaunceston, Flinders Island-Launceston trade. As one who has had a considerable experience with light aircraft I can vouch that such services do an excellent job. The Newcastle-Sydney operator provides a first class service. A service will be provided to the people of those 2 islands off Tasmania. So much for what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had to say.  His  speech was pathetic both in the manner of its delivery and in its content. What he said was simply political humbug. 
I deal now with the honourable member for Gippsland, the Opposition spokesman on transport. He endeavoured to raise the old Menzies bogey about communism. He gave it another gallop tonight. He said that the Minister for Transport always confers with the communist trade unions to see whether they will give him permission to issue a single voyage permit. I took a point of order at the time and said that this was not true. I have in my possession a photo copy of a single voyage permit which I issued tonight after that part of the debate. The honourable member for Gippsland knows its contents because he signed similar permits on previous occasions when he was Minister. He has a stack of the permits I have signed recently because I gave him and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  copies of them. He knows that what he said was not true. It makes me boil when people make statements that they know are not true and which are deliberate untruths. On all single voyage permits are 3 notations. The first is a recommendation that the Minister approve the issue of the permit. The second notation is that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been notified of the application. Is the honourable member for Gippsland suggesting that Harold Souter and Bob Hawke are communists? Why does he not go outside the Parliament and say this? People would laugh at him if he did so. Harold Souter is the man who always advises on approvals; he does not ask for them. He advises the unions of my decision. That is the situation that exists. 
In respect of shipping and shipbuilding I have been accused of doing nothing. Let us examine the position. The honourable member for Gippsland can sit and smile but when I became Minister there were in excess of 700 unemployed maritime workers in Australia. Today there is none. That is the difference between the previous Government and the Labor Party Government. What have we done with the Japanese trade? We have increased our participation in it from 17.2 per cent to 30 per cent. In the wool trade we have increased our participation from 23 per cent to 28.3 per cent. With regard to shipping, when the honourable member for Gippsland was Minister he approved of the Australian National Line building in Japan a second generation ship for the eastern sea road service. He approved the building of one ship; I gave approval for the building of a ship shortly after I became Minister. Since then we have placed firm orders for two 121,000 ton bulk ships and two 140,000 ton bulk ships so that the Australian National Line - 
-I will tell the honourable member. I will deal with the lot in a moment. Australia will at last start to have an interest and involvement in the iron ore trade. During the years the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office it did not have one ship operating in the overseas trade for the carriage of bulk cargoes. Today we are on the way to overcoming that problem. What is more, we have understandings with the Japanese importers as to what the position will be. We recently placed an order for a 29,000 deadweight ton ship to be included in the ACT-ANL trade. We are in the process of buying the 'Matthew Flinders' from the Flinders Shipping Co. With that vessel and the 'Australian Enterprise' we will be able to go into a new trade in Asia between Korea, Hong Kong the Philippines and Australia. We recently purchased the 'Baron Cawdor', a bulk ship especially fitted, for the Christmas Island trade. The previous Government was prepared to let this trade become the province of overseas shipping companies but we have ensured an Australian involvement in that trade. All told, in the short period we have been in office, $23Sm has been spent on new ships for Australian involvement in overseas shipping. Is that peanuts? Is that some insignificant amount of money? The Government has been on the job and it is continuing to get on with the job of providing employment in an expansion of Australia's overseas shipping industry. 
I deal now with the question of shipbuilding. Let us consider the situation when the honourable member for Gippsland was Minister for Shipping and Transport. In the 12 months ended 2 December 1972 there were 39 ships on order or under construction. During th. last 12 months -in our term of office- 68 ships have been on order or under construction. If honourable members examine the information which has been made available to them they will find that the Whyalla shipyards have orders which will keep them operational well into 1977 and even later if need be. The State Dockyard is in a similar position and its last order is due for delivery in 1977. I will deal explicitly with Evans Deakin &amp; Co. 
Pty Ltd in a moment because if ever there has been a deal of humbug with any shipping company it is with Evans Deakin. If ever a shipyard got a go from a government, it was Evans Deakin. It got a go from this Government. I must say that during the term of the honourable member for Gippsland as Minister he endeavoured to keep Evans Deakin going, but one cannot keep something going if it will not have a go itself. If ever a place is badly managed, Evans Deakin is it. It is the worst managed shipyard that this country has ever had the misfortune to have. The manner in which it conducts its affairs is poor. It has antagonised unions and, incidentally, the unions have not been unco-operative. The way Evans Deakin has antagonised unions into unnecessary stoppages is an absolute and utter disgrace. 
The question of Adelaide Ship Construction was raised, but let us be clear about the situation. That shipyard was in the process of being closed when we became the Government The owners of that shipyard had placed an order for a 4,000 ton vessel with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It had a third interest in that ship. If one is the owner of a shipyard why does one place an order with another shipyard? The answer is clear. That company decided, while the honourable member for Gippsland was Minister, to close down on the completion of the work it had under construction. It made the decision, went on with it and closed the yard. Let me deal now with Walkers Limited. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  mentioned this matter. 
-For as long as I want. 
-That is right. This Government made firm offers to Walkers shipyard and also to the Queensland Government. On 24 April the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  the Premier of Queensland. I do not propose to read that letter but he made an offer of a 3-way arrangement with Walkers shipyard. He made a proposal for an arrangement with Walkers, the Queensland Government and the Australian Government. If that was not satisfactory to Walkers he suggested an arrangement with the Queensland Government and the Australian Government or an arrangement with Walkers and the Australian Government, whichever way they wanted to play it. Let us consider the real facts of this matter. On 14 May the Queensland Premier wrote to the Prime Minister. I emphasise the date- 14 
May. I want to show the Committee what a humbug and a hypocrite the Premier of Queensland is. 
On 15 May, he met the representatives of the union at Walkers and promised them that he would give consideration to the proposition. Yet, on 14 May in his letter to the Prime Minister he had written to him saying that his Government was not prepared to be in the proposal. When we met  Dr Hughes  from Walkers, he said quite frankly that Walkers was not prepared to be in the proposition and that that would be his recommendation to the board of directors. Yes, we did make the statement that we were prepared to go it alone. On that afternoon when the proposition was put to  Dr Hughes  and to the  Chairman  of the Walkers board indicating that we were prepared to take the shipyard over and carry out the building of the 3 ships which Walkers was to do- 2 heavy landing craft for the Army and a navigation ship for the Department of Transport to a value of $8.25m- we found that Walkers was not prepared to be a party to our proposal. Although we were prepared to go on with it, Walkers was not prepared to lease us the shipyard or to co-operate with us in any way whatsoever. 
It was not until all operations had finished that the attitude changed. AU of Walkers labour had left that company. It had sold part of the shipyard. Suddenly Walkers was prepared to lease the shipyard to us. At this stage there was no industry there. Everyone who is fair dinkum and honest will know that there was no industry in that city. There was nothing to transfer. That is aU there is to that situation. 
-Don 't you come into this one because there is a nice Utile Press cutting here on you. I turn to the Evans Deakin company. Let us have a look at the facts of the matter. When the manager of Evans Deakin reported the decision on 10 October to withdraw from shipbuilding, according to Press reports the decision was well received by the shareholders. That means that they were happy to get out of the industry. This was notwithstanding the fact that that company, as a list that I have here will show, could have tendered for the construction of a number of vessels. I ask for leave to incorporate this document in Hansard. I have already spoken to the honourable member for Gippsland about it. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second annual report of the Australian Shippers Council for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1974 I present the annual report of the operations of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
When  Mr Justice  Sweeney was appointed to the royal commission I was unaware that he was a trustee of the 'Noongah' Fund, just as I was unaware that the father of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party was also a trustee of the 'Noongah* Fund. I was advised of that fact by my Department on 24 October, in response to an inquiry which I made. As far as I am aware, the 'Noongah' Fund has nothing to do with the inquiry which is being conducted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The rates per kilometre for the sector referred are: 
Melbourne to Sydney, first class 6.46c, economy class 5.17c. 
Melbourne to Adelaide, first class 6.56c, economy class 5.25c. 
Melbourne to Brisbane, first class 6. 1 7c, economy class 4.94c. 
Melbourne to Perth, first class 5.81c, economy class 4.65c. 
The passenger load factors for year ended 31 December, 1973, are: 
Melbourne to Sydney, Ansett 73.5 per cent, TAA 72.8 per cent. 
Melbourne to Adelaide, Ansett 72.2 per cent, TAA 67.2 per cent. 
Melbourne to Brisbane, Ansett 67.6 per cent, TAA 63.7 percent. 
Melbourne to Perth, Ansett 63.0 per cent, TAA 65.7 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following Australian Government aerodromes have been transferred to Local Government authorities and have subsequently received financial assistance for development and maintenance works: 
Norseman and Leonora transferred in 1960. Esperance in 1962. Rottnest Island in 1969. Wiluna and Roebourne in 1972. 
Southern Cross was transferred in 1960 but has subsequently received financial assistance for maintenance works only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Act 1952-1973 provides the basis for charging all airlines, including those involved in the two airline agreement, for the use of aerodromes, air route and airways facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services maintained, operated or provided by the Australian Government. The criteria and scale of charges do not take into consideration whether or not the Government airline is excluded by State Governments from using the facilities provided. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since payments first commenced in 1966-67, a total of $96,799.44 has been paid by Commonwealth Railways to employees suffering loss of hearing as a result of their employment with the Railways. 
During that period, the cost of supplying hearing aids to those employees where such aids were considered necessary was $1,1 17.32. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is contained in tables under the following headings: 
1 ) Scheduled domestic and international aircraft movements at Capital City and major Territory Airports. 
Scheduled domestic and international passengers arriving and reparting at Capital City and major Territory Airports. 
Estimated visitors at Capital City and major Territory Airports. 
The length of runways, capacity and size of Capital City and Territory Airports. 
The size and quality of service provided at Capital City and major Territory Airports. 
-The Government is concerned with the standard of public transport in capital cities and cities with a population in excess of 100,000. For this reason we have already committed $138m to finance programs which will total $207m. The money has been allocated to carry out all sorts of improvements to the transport system. We are now experimenting with the development of an Australian urban passenger train which will incorporate all the latest modern train techniques. A mock-up of the interior of a carriage has been displayed in Adelaide, Perth, and Melbourne and is in Sydney at the moment. It will shortly be displayed in Brisbane. Approximately 300,000 people have already inspected this mock-up. Numerous people have expressed their opinions of the various configurations. This is part of the market research we are doing to determine just what sort of carriage should be developed. 
Up to this point, all the State Ministers for Transport have co-operated. In every city where the display has been set up, we have had to seek and have obtained their co-operation and assistance in setting it up for public inspection. The carriage was built at the Islington railway workshops in Adelaide. Stage 1 has been approved by all the Ministers. Stage 2 is under consideration. I reaffirm that the State Ministers are co-operating in the development and the investigations that are taking place. 
I present a report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport including those matters on which the Minister for Transport is required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920-1971. 
-I appreciate the question asked by the honourable member. It may be of interest to other honourable members to know that I have already agreed to representations from Tasmanian members of this Parliament and senators that I should meet them to discuss this question and other matters that have been raised. I will be seeing them tomorrow at 2 o 'clock. As regards the statement by  Mr Crofts  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, I can understand his attitude because of the criticism by  Mr Cameron  and me of the recent astronomical increases that were granted to pilots so that they are now really, to use Clyde's expression, in the ' fat cat ' category. 
To return to the matter under discussion, when we became the Government we decided that we would not continue to subsidise civil aviation heavily in the manner in which it had been subsidised by the former Government. Last year, for example, civil aviation was subsidised to the extent of $65m, and in the previous year by $67m. In order to obtain an 80 per cent recovery of the cost of civil aviation, we introduced certain measures such as, for example, increasing air navigation charges from 10 per cent to IS per cent. Even at IS per cent those charges represent only 4 per cent of the airlines' total operating costs. 
At the same time as we did that we agreed to representations from the industry that we should hear its views on what can and should be done. As a result of the industry asking us to consider its views on how costs could be reduced, we set up a committee and asked the industry as a whole- the airlines, the general aviation section, the aero clubs- to put forward ideas to the committee. These groups have put forward their ideas to the committee, which is examining them. At this point I have received no report from the committee or any recommendations whatsoever. However, when the report is received it will be considered by the Cabinet and the Cabinet will then decide what portions of the industry's recommendations should be accepted or rejected. That is the situation. 
-An announcement will be made this week declaring what are the national highways for New South Wales. As far as the program is concerned, I have already written to each State Minister for Transport or Minister for Roads, as the case may be, asking them to give me programs by the middle of November which will be put into operation as from 1 January. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Frequently since attaining office this Government has drawn attention to the vast gulf between the cost of providing, operating and maintaining our aviation infrastructure, and the revenue received for the use of the various facilities. In 1973-74 the cost to provide, operate and maintain Australia's airport and airways systems amounted to $ 1 40m. Only $75m or 54 per cent pf that amount was recovered. The Australian taxpayer, rather than the users, was called upon to meet the $65m deficit. This Government intends to increase substantially the rate of recovery from the users and, indeed, already has embarked on such a program. 
There is absolutely no justification for continuing the heavy subsidy support of the general aviation industry which makes heavy demands on aviation facilities and on the funds to provide and maintain them. Special aerodromes for general aviation aircraft, Archerfield, Bankstown, Jandakot, Essendon, Moorabbin and Parafield, have been provided in all capital cities- by the taxpayer. Last year, these aerodromes alone cost $10m to operate and maintain. In addition, facilities have been provided at other aerodromes largely for general aviation aircraft, things like light aircraft aprons and taxiways, traffic control and flight service units, communications and fire units. Yet our total recovery from the general aviation industry including air navigation charges, commercial revenue and aviation fuel tax amounted to less than $4.5m, a recovery rate of only 44 per cent. The Government sees no reason why all sectors of the aviation industry should not pay their way at least to the extent of the 80 per cent recovery target set by the Government. 
In 1960 the then Liberal-Country Party Government adopted a long term policy for ultimate full recovery of costs of air transport facilities provided by Government However, no target date for achieving the objective was set. This Government decided last year to set a target date and to accelerate the cost recovery program. It was then announced that an 80 per cent recovery rate was to be attained by 1978. In the first year following the announcement the recovery rate was increased from 49 per cent to 54 per cent. This was achieved, with the co-operation of industry, by both increasing revenue within the statutory limitations where they apply and by a more efficient allocation of resources through a vigorous pruning of costs wherever possible. By continuing to pursue this policy the Government will achieve a balanced, co-ordinated transport system. Resources will be properly allocated on the demonstrated needs of the community and a system will be developed in which each transport mode performs the role best suited to it. In this way the maximum benefit will accrue to the nation. While this policy caters for 80 per cent recovery of the costs attributable to the provision, operation and maintenance of the airport and airways systems attention has also been focused on the cost to the Government of providing the many other services for which no charge is made. Therefore, consistent with the cost recovery policy and also with the broader policy that the user should pay, the Government has recently decided to introduce fees and charges for a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry by the Air Transport Group of the Department of Transport. 
The Air Navigation Bill 1974 enables the Air Navigation Act to be amended to provide authority for fees and charges to be imposed through the Air Navigation Regulations. The actual charges have not yet been determined but will be tabled in the Parliament as amendments to the Regulations before implementation. It is intended that they be introduced during the 1974-75 financial year and that full recovery of the cost of these services be attained within 3 years. The full commercial cost to the Department of providing the services is estimated at more than $6m for this financial year. The services for which fees and charges are to be imposed may be described generally as being for applications or examinations for the grant, issue, renewal or variation of licences, certificates, approvals, permits, registrations or exemptions under the Regulations. As would be expected this general description embraces various types of differing services which are too extensive to describe fully. This country has sustained an enviable air safety record over a long period. Much effort and financial resources have been expended by the Department to achieve this. For example, considerable effort has been directed to ensuring that proficiency is attained and maintained by both pilots and operators. It is now proposed to charge for services provided in the issue of flight crew and air service licences. Similarity, it is proposed to introduce charges for the many services provided in respect of airworthiness matters. These charges will include application fees for such services as the issue or variation of certificates of registration, the issue or renewal of certificates of airworthiness, the issue of certificates of type approval in respect of a type of aircraft or aircraft component. 
Authorities intending to erect buildings on Government aerodromes are required to first obtain the Department's approval to ensure that siting considerations are met and that the proposed building meets both structural and architectural standards. It is proposed that applicants for such approvals be required to pay a fee in a similar manner to the building permit fee imposed by local councils. In the case of aerodromes owned and operated by local authorities, private individuals or business undertakings, a licence is issued by the Department before the aerodrome can be made available for public use. The issue of the licence is preceded by consultation concerning the standard of aerodrome and inspection of the site to determine that the Department's standards have been met in order to ensure that the aerodrome is suitable and safe for the proposed operations. It is proposed to charge for this service. It is intended, of course, to charge for many other services provided by the Department. The specific services mentioned are illustrative only. It is further intended that the full commercial cost of providing these services will be recovered. 
Another significant effect of this Bill is to change the definition of 'state aircraft' and to make several related changes. The purpose of these changes is to enable civil aircraft registered in Australia which are being flown by members of the Defence Forces in the course of their duties to continue to be subject to the Air Navigation Regulations. 
In recent years privately owned civil aircraft registered in Australia under the Air Navigation Regulations have been hired on a number of occasions by the Army, Navy and Royal Australian Air Force for relatively short periods. 
These aircraft have been flown by members of the Defence Forces in the course of their duties for such purposes as flying training and surveys. In accordance with the Air Navigation Act 1920-1973 these aircraft are 'state aircraft' as defined and, except where the Act makes an express reference, are not subject to the Act. Difficulties have arisen, and would continue to arise, in such circumstances. Particular problems have involved maintenance, pilot licensing and investigation of accidents. For instance, the Defence Force has been expected to institute its own maintenance procedures for hired aircraft. Notwithstanding this, on the return of the aircraft to civil operations, its airworthiness could be in question due to the possible consequences of its time spent beyond the control of the Act and the Regulations. 
Therefore, it is most desirable that the provisions of the Air Navigation Regulations should continue to apply to civil registered aircraft which are under the temporary control of the Defence Force by virtue of a contract of hire or charter and are being flown by members of the Defence Force in the course of their duties. On the other hand, honourable members may be assured, if an aircraft is hired or chartered by a part of the Defence Force for a lengthy period, or if for any special reason it is desirable that it should not be subject to the provisions of the Air Navigation Regulations while under hire or charter, the registration of the aircraft can be cancelled on the application of the owner. The aircraft will then be under the complete control of the service department concerned. The opportunity has also been taken to substitute, in the Air Navigation Act and the Airports (Surface Traffic) Act, references to 'Director-General of Department of Civil Aviation' by 'Secretary to the Department of Transport', and 'the Commonwealth' by 'Australia'. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures are not available in the form requested by the right honourable member. However, the Bureau of Transport Economics has estimated that the following gross capital expenditure on urban transport services in the six capital cities was undertaken by States in the period 1 960-6 1 to 1970-71. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Transport has not used management consultants in the last 1 2 months. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
TAA Express Delivery Service  (Question No. 995) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Express delivery items are in two categories: 
Jet Express, where the basic rate covers carriage from the TAA Office in the city or airports of origin, to the TAA office in the city or airport at destination. The person lodging the parcel is asked if immediate delivery is desired at the destination. If the answer is YES, or there are any doubts as to the delivery requirements, TAA presumes that immediate delivery is required and the appropriate messenger service delivery rates are shown on the consignment note and charged to the consignor. 
Should the consignor indicate, 'Notify Arrival To The Consignee', and the consignee requests delivery, then delivery charges involved are to be collected from this consignee, either by direct payment to the messenger service, or by a charge to the consignee's account. 
Person to Person, where the consignment is collected by a messenger service at the office or residence of the consignor at the point or origin, expressed to the destination port, and delivered to the office or residence of the consignee. There is one all inclusive charge for this particular service. 
Yes. 
Yes- if delivery is pre-paid. 
It is not usual for a delivery contractor to debit a TAA client direct, the contractor normally debits TAA for the delivery action. 
If the collection is a cash transaction, the delivery contractor is responsible for this action and accounts to TAA. If the cash is not collected at the time of delivery, the contractor will endeavour to obtain it before accounting to TAA. 
If there are any individual cases of consignors/consignees receiving accounts not contracted for, TAA would be pleased to investigate the circumstances. 
-This is a typical loaded Country Party question which is not based on facts. The real blame should be attributed to  Mr Bjelke-Peterson,  the Premier of Queensland, because of his failure to meet the requirements of local government in Queensland. Let us first of all deal with the Acts as they stand. The Australian Government has increased the allocation for the construction and maintenance of roads in Australia by 30 per cent over the amount in the last 3 years of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement which expired on 30 June of this year. Queensland has done better than any other State in Australia; it does not matter how you work it out, it has done better than any other State. As far as rural communities are concerned, let us examine the real facts of the matter. Queensland rural communities will receive 75 per cent of the allocation to Queensland and urban communities will get 25 per cent of the allocation. When that is compared with the 59 per cent that rural communites got as against 41 per cent for urban areas under LiberalCountry Party Commonwealth Aid Roads legislation the rural sections of Queensland have done particularly well out of this Government. They have got a much better deal from the Whitlam Labor Government than they are getting from the Bjelke-Petersen National Party-Liberal Government. (Opposition members interjecting) 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31 March 1974, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
We have heard once again the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  make one of his usual and typical com bogy, sabre rattling speeches for which he has become famous. To the honourable member everyone on the waterfront is a com and the Communist Party finances the affairs of the Labor Party. But why does he not tell us what the multi-nationals and the oil companies and the minerals crowd contribute to Country Party funds? The letters tabled in this place by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and other members and in particular by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  clearly establish beyond question the amount of money that the mineral companies have poured into Country Party affairs. We know that little  Sir Echo  Douglas has gone begging cap in hand to them for years for money for the Country Party's election campaign funds. 
Why does not the honourable member give us the facts? The honourable member has challenged the authenticity of the statements made by those fellows. But why does he not disclose the money that his Party has received? Why did not his Party support the propositions put up by this Government to expose and to detail every item of donations that are received by Parties during election campaigns. He does not do so because that in itself would show the Country Party up for what it is- the tool - 
-As I was saying, that would show that the Country Party and the Liberal Party are the tools and the mouthpieces in this place of foreign capital invested in this country. Why does the honourable member not come clean? Is he prepared to put it on the line? Of course he is not prepared to put the position of his Party which has been the mouthpiece of foreign capital in this place for the last 25 years.  His  Party has been copping their donations. 
The honourable member for Gippsland was complaining and bewailing the fact that you,  Mr Speaker,  were eating into his time. Yet he had plenty of time to trot out the old com bogy. The honourable member referred to 3 ships. When the honourable member rang me and advised me that he intended to speak tonight on a shipping matter I asked him what he was going to talk about. He said: 'You will hear about it in due course'. To the best of my knowledge I have never heard of the 3 ships he referred to tonight. I will note what the honourable member has said in this place tonight and if the matter needs any attention I will certainly deal with it. I would like to make the position clear in regard to single voyage permits for passenger ships. I am the person who issues single voyage permits for the carriage of freight. I have not taken over the responsibility of issuing permits for the carriage of passengers from port to port because this involves too many people and the issuing of too many single voyage permits. Therefore I do not issue permits for single voyage permits regarding the carriage of passengers. I have deputised people within the department to issue these permits. I will look at the matter raised by the honourable member to ascertain whether there have been any malpractices and if need be I will take appropriate action. 
The honourable member has asked whether the matter he raised should be referred to the royal commission being conducted into indemnity payments. The honourable member is a free citizen and if he wants to he has a right to put a submission to the royal commission. If he considers he has some evidence that is of value and importance to the royal commission he should exercise his right and seek leave to appear before the commission. He has this right irrespective of whether I say yes or no to his request. The honourable member knows that he has that right. He should not try to fool us that he needs my permission to do so. If the honourable member wants to come along here to score points, good luck to him, because that is his right and privilege. 
I suggest that the honourable member might have a look at the personal explanation given by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he acknowledged that he had made some incorrect statements about waterside workers. The honourable member for Gippsland talked about the waterside workers being controlled by communists. But let me tell him something: Charlie Fitzgibbon, the Federal Secretary of the Australian Waterside Workers Federation, is a member of the Australian Labor Party. He has been a member for as long as I can recall. We both come from the same town and he has always been a member of the Labor Party. 
It is well known in the trade union movement that Charlie Fitzgibbon has never been at any time associated indirectly or directly with the Communist Party. Anyone who makes inferences that that man has at any time been associated with the Communist Party is telling deliberate untruths and misleading this House. 
-The honourable member talked about communists controlling the Waterside Workers Federation. Charlie Fitzgibbon is the Federal Secretary of that union and any inference that he is under the domination and control of the Communist Party is a complete distortion of the facts. 
I now turn to the matters raised tonight by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  I can understand his concern about what is to happen with airports in the Albury-Wodonga region, particularly the Corowa airport. I regret that the honourable member was in any way fobbed off as he claims was the case. I will look into the matters raised tonight by him. It will be of interest to the honourable member to know that only yesterday I had a long meeting with members of my Department who are investigating whether there should be a new airport for the Albury-Wodonga area and, if so, where it should be. The question of alternative sites is being investigated in depth. We have come pretty close to making a decision on this matter. However, there are a couple of aspects that we want to investigate still further. The final decision on whether the present airport should be retained or where a new airport should be located has yet to be made. I reaffirm and restate for the benefit of the honourable member that the delay has been caused purely and simply because we want to look at a few other points because we are also interested - 
-The Department, as I understand it, has made inquiries about what is required in the area. We have had numerous discussions with the Department of Urban and Regional Development which is responsible for the planning in the region. We are also interested in the location of the National Road Safety Authority in the area. We are trying to interlock these considerations with the matter of a new airport or retention of the existing airport. The points raised by the honourable member tonight will be taken into consideration. 
Pursuant to section 17 (5) of the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1956-1974 I present a direction to the Australian Shipping Commission pursuant to section 17 (1) of that Act. 
-I am aware of the concern of the honourable member for EdenMonaro as I am aware of the concern of the honourable member for Fraser and the honourable member for Canberra, all of whom have spoken to me about this matter at some time or another. As a result of their representations, I have written to  Sir Charles  Cutler, the Minister for Highways in New South Wales, seeking his co-operation in doing something about the problem. As honourable members will understand, provision is made in the roads legislation in each year for the construction or reconstruction of rural arterial roads. The Bateman's Bay road comes in that category. Therefore, I have said to  Sir Charles  that, as it comes within that category, I would appreciate it if he would use Australian Government money to reconstruct that road or to construct those areas that have to be constructed. 
On the matter of maintenance, when  Sir Robert  Menzies agreed to finance this road back in 1957-58, one of the conditions was that it would be maintained by the New South Wales Department of Main Roads. I have therefore suggested to  Sir Charles  that he might, if it is not a construction or reconstruction job, use funds to maintain this road immediately, having in mind the thousands of people who will travel on the road in the Christmas period. Reconstruction of the road would be a very expensive job and I understand from councils in the region that the cost is estimated to be approximately $5.7m. So that would make a great hole in the allocation for rural arterial roads. I appreciate the honourable member's concern. The Government has made the necessary representations in the matter. 
-In lieu of dealing with the question in detail I seek the indulgence of the Leader of the Opposition to incorporate in Hansard a substantial table that I have here. It shows the earnings, without naming individuals, of each pilot in the employ of Qantas and has a column which indicates the amount that they will now receive as a result of the Coldham decision. I seek leave to incorporate that table in Hansard. 

-Hello, Phillip; you are back again with us. Welcome home. 
-If weak-kneed Nixon wants to ask a question on this, why does not he do so? 
-Do not toss him out,  Mr Speaker. 
-Don't get tossed out, Peter. I want you here.  Mr Speaker,  I have seen Press reports of statements made by executive officers of the Pilots Federation that its members only receive between $7,000 and $21,000 a year. This is not true and if the Opposition will grant me leave I will incorporate in Hansard a table which shows the actual earnings of all Trans-Australia Airlines pilots who have worked in a particular category for 1 2 months. 
The table that I have just handed to the Opposition spokesman on transport matters will show the actual earnings of pilots for 1973-74. One pilot earned $8,532 and he was the only one who earned less than $9,000. Forty-three pilots earned between $9,000 and $10,000; 192 earned between $10,000 and $15,000; 138 earned between $15,000 and $20,000; 125 earned between $20,000 and $25,000 and 36 earned more than $25,000. The top fellow earned $27,365. Honourable members can see that these fellows are really having a bad trot, particularly if they look at the way pilots' salaries have increased since Boeing 727s were introduced in 1964. In that period pilots received increases totalling 148 per cent, whereas people who are supposed to be highly paid, namely the Second Division officers of the Australian Public Service, in that period received increases totalling only 107 per cent. More than half of that percentage was obtained in the last 2 years. Third Division officers of the Public Service have had increases totalling 119 per cent, but in recent years only. 
Engineers grade 2 have had increases of 117 per cent. So if honourable members would like to compare the pilots with those in similar wage groups- 
-They work a maximum of 84 hours a month; not 84 hours a week, but 84 hours a month. If the percentage increases received by pilots were compared with the increases received by people in any other classification, it would be found that the pilots have done particularly well and that there is no justification for salary increases. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1 974 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
We have just listened once again to the Opposition spokesman on transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  He ran out of paper. He thought he was going to turn this debate this afternoon into an argument about pilots' salaries and Cabinet salaries and anything else he wanted to toss into the ring. The Air Navigation Bill is very clear. It outlines just what we are aiming to do with air navigation charges. It sets out quite clearly what the Government is proposing to do and the reasons why we are proposing to do it. If the honourable member for Gippsland would only look at the facts and deal with the facts he would see that it is quite clear that there is a great case to justify an increase in air navigation charges. 
-I thought I was doing that,  Mr Speaker. 
-I beg your pardon,  Sir, but  I thought I was doing that. 
-I have not? Naturally you would understand that I am opposing the proposition to suspend Standing Orders which was moved by the honourable member for Gippsland because he has run out of puff and wants to introduce irrelevant matters. The honourable member could have brought on a matter of public importance today if he so desired and he could have dealt with Jones and with Cameron at that time. But to do so the Opposition would have had to give up the time available for general business. It decided that it was not prepared to do that and therefore did not bring on a matter of public importance. 
-This is why I am saying that the Opposition is not fair dinkum about what it is doing. It is trying to flout Standing Orders. I have never heard anything so preposterous in all my life. We have a Bill which clearly sets out the clear guidelines of what the debate should be about and yet the honourable member for Gippsland wants to broaden it into a general debate. That is just not on and the honourable member knows it is not on. The honourable member should direct his remarks to what is contained in the Bill. I believe that the  Speaker  was most tolerant in the way he let the honourable member wander all over the place before he pulled him up. 
The honourable member for Gippsland wanted to raise the question of pilots' salaries. He tried to question what the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and myself have been doing in regard to this matter. But if one looks at the record of the Opposition one can see that only a few months ago honourable members opposite were demanding that the Navy be brought in to man ships. I want honourable members opposite to tell us where they are going? Is it not a fact that they advocated the use of the Services when people were on strike? The honourable member for Gippsland should have a look in the mirror so that he can see what he looks like. The honourable member has distorted the whole of the Bill. The honourable member and his colleagues have told half truths and untruths continually over the week. 
The honourable member said that I was setting out to close Wynyard and Devonport airports. He said that I was going to withdraw the fire services. In reply to a question from the Opposition's alleged spokesman on Tasmanian affairs, the honourable member heard me outline to him that I did not originate those matters, that it was the industry itself which we had asked to put forward ideas and proposals as to how civil aviation costs could be curtailed. The honourable member knows full well that that was the case because I stated in this place this morning that I had not originated those things. The honourable member said here today in typical Goebbels lying fashion that this was something that we were doing when in fact he knew at the time that it was not the truth. The honourable member knows what he is trying to do. He is trying to embarrass the Labor members from Tasmania by trying to make out that they are not doing anything. The Tasmanian members were the first to move when they found out what the honourable member was saying. Even the Opposition spokesman on Tasmanian affairs did not know that this matter had been discussed last week and that assurances had been given and decisions had been made. A member of the Opposition asked a question yesterday of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  in regard to a Bill that was introduced into this place last Wednesday. 
-I can see no justification for it. As I have already said, the honourable member for Gippsland has moved his motion to suspend Standing Orders because he has run out of puff. He has got nothing further to bring before the Parliament to substantiate his arguments against air navigation charges and the Air Navigation Bill. He knows that his arguments are crook. He has come in here and talked about what we are allegedly doing when in reality if we examine the facts as to just what air navigation charges represent as far as a charge on the industry is concerned the situation can be seen in a different light. For example, air navigation charges represent only 2.28 per cent of the total cost of operating a club training aircraft such as a Piper 528-140. The way in which the honourable member has come in here and tried to say that this Government is knocking general aviation just shows that he does not know what he is talking about. The increase in air navigation charges brings them to 1.12 per cent of the total operating cost of a 10-seater aircraft. Just what is the honourable member complaining about? Honourable members opposite are just a pack of hypocrites and humbugs and they know that they are. 
Yes, that is what I am speaking against. The honourable member for Gippsland has raised many matters, but because he had nothing more to say he moved the suspension of Standing Orders so that he could be heard on some irrelevant matter that has nothing to do with air navigation charges. Why does he not at the next sitting of this Parliament bring on for discussion a matter of public importance and declare where the Opposition stands? 
The Opposition has been critical of our attitude on the pilots' issue in regard to Qantas Airways Ltd. I will say this to honourable members opposite: One of the leaders of their Party came to me and said: 'That was a monstrous decision that has been brought down. Why does your Minister for Labor not go and talk to Fraser, the shadow Minister for Labor; why does he not go and talk to him and we will back you on whatever action you like to take to bring these fellows into line? They have to be brought into line'. 
-One of the leaders of the Liberal Party, not the Australian Country Party. 
-I know that there are a lot of them. The fact of the matter is that this is the way he approached me. Therefore the honourable member should not come in here and talk to me about what we have done. All that you fellows think you can do is to score points for your case. But the Minister for Labor and Immigration and myself have had the courage to stand up to these people and to stop them standing over the airlines. I know that Ansett wrote the speech delivered by the honourable member to day. 
-Ansett-the Ansett organisation. It wrote the speech that was delivered by the honourable member today. Everyone knows that. Everyone knows that Ansett has been writing the speeches of the Liberal and Country parties in regard to airports, air navigation and the like for years. 
-A11 I am saying to the honourable member is - 
-What I am saying to the honourable member is this: The Liberal and Country parties have been the mouthpiece of the Ansett organisation in this place for years. They have done everything that the Ansett organisation wanted them to do. They have toadied to it and given it everything that it has asked for. The Liberal and Country parties gave the Ansett organisation any increases that it wanted. They gave it services when it wanted them. When Ansett opposed the move for Trans-Australia Airlines to operate within Western Australia those parties pulled away from that arrangement. 
So it does not matter which way one looks at this whole question of the suspension of Standing Orders. It is pure and simple humbug for the Opposition to put forward this proposition and to raise a matter that has nothing whatever to do with the Bill under consideration at the moment. The Opposition could raise these matters by way of a discussion of a matter of public importance when Parliament meets next Monday or Tuesday but it has chosen not to do so. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, the Government should oppose the suspension of Standing Orders. 
-It is perfectly true that the civil aviation industry is heavily subsidised by the Australian Government. For example, last year expenditure in civil aviation was $ 140m and revenue was $75m which clearly shows that a subsidy amounting to $65m was required. This has been the position over a long period of time. The Government has adopted as a policy an 80 per cent recovery program in which we are looking at an increase in air navigation charges from 10 per cent to 15 per cent annually. Notwithstanding this increase the cost represents only approximately 4 per cent of the total operating charges of an airline. In the case of general aviation it represents an even smaller percentage of operating costs. In respect of some of the training and small commuter aircraft it is as low as about 2 per cent. As far as the Government's priorities are concerned, the Government does have priorities more important than civil aviation. I refer to the Department of Social Security, the Department of Health and other departments which have been increasing their benefits and payments to people who really need assistance. Because we heavily subsidise civil aviation- at the moment we are recovering only about 54 per cent of total cost of it- it is possible for airlines to operate and charge fares well below an economic level. We estimate that something in the vicinity of the first $6 of every fare charged is paid by the Australian taxpayer. This in itself is unfair in our opinion. That is why we are going for the 80 per cent recovery. We want to make the industry more self supporting and self sufficient in providing services to the people. 
I would love to be able to tear up the 2-airline agreement, but the friends of Ansett on the other side of the House have really tied the agreement up. It is absolutely watertight. Honourable members opposite and Ansett made sure of that. The agreement is worth millions of dollars every year to the Ansett organisation. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government, on the eve of the last election- I think it was one of the last pieces of legislation it put through- extended the agreement for another 5 years. The right honourable member for Lowe, who is interjecting, is one of the guilty men. 
-When you were Prime Minister, one of your Ministers would have resigned over the agreement except for Ansett 's interference with you. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details of ships on order at commercial shipyards which have contracts to construct vessels over 500 gross (construction) tons and the estimated completion dates of these vessels are provided below- 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948-1973 I present the annual return of persons granted certificates of Australian citizenship for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information the right honourable member requested is not available. Information published by the States in relation to railway profit/loss does not enable separation of suburban figures from the totals for 11 of the last ten years. However, the Bureau of Transport Economics in its report of June 1972, tabled by this Government, included a table showing estimated operating results for urban railway services for the three years 1968-69 to 1970-71. Comparable figures for later years are not available. Figures extracted from that table are shown below: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 75 
119 
(a) To investigate and report to the Minister on matters relating to roads and road transport. 
Conduct of research programmes, appraisals, studies and investigations, to assist the formation of policy in the fields of transport and materials handling in or affecting Australia. 
) The matter is under consideration but at this stage no firm decision has been made. 
-As the honourable member for Moore is aware the Minister for Labor and Immigration is in New Zealand attending an important civic conference. As the information sought by the question is available to him and not to me at this point I will draw the honourable member's question to the attention of the Minister when he returns. No doubt he will treat it as a question on notice. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make available to the Tasmanian State Government a loan of up to $ 1 .4 1 5m. The objective of the legislation is to enable Tasmania to maintain a shipping service to King Island by financing the purchase of the vessel M. V.'Straitsman'. 
For some years King Island was serviced by a small 200 dwt vessel 'King Islander' owned and operated by R. H. Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd. The service received a Commonwealth subsidy. This subsidy ceased when the company introduced a new larger vessel, the 'Straitsman' of 1,036 dwt which operated between Melbourne, King Island and Stanley. The service commenced on 1 May 1 972 but ceased after only 7 weeks because of the company's acute liquidity problems. 
Shortly after taking office we commenced negotiations with the Tasmanian Government. In the course of these discussions the Tasmanians indicated they wished to assume direct responsibility for the operation of the service. In the interests of maintaining this service the Australian Government agreed that a loan would be provided for the purchase of a vessel. The Tasmanian Government, as honourable members will be aware, purchased the 'Straitsman' which re-entered the service in September 1973. It was agreed that the earlier undertaking to make a loan available would apply to this vessel. 
The Bill before the House gives effect to the agreement contained in the Schedule and thus honours the Government's undertaking. The agreement provides that a loan be made to Tasmania that shall not exceed in the aggregate $1,415,000. The loan is to be repaid over 15 years. The rate of interest charge on the loan will be the long term bond rate at the time the loan is made. 
Honourable members will of course be aware that the 'Straitsman' was operating in the King Island service when the tragic accident occurred in March 1973. The Tasmanian Government was immediately advised that approval would be granted for the temporary importation of a vessel should an Australian vessel be unavailable to continue the service. Interim arrangements were made to provide the King Island area with a shipping service whilst an appropriate vessel was sought overseas by the Tasmanian Government. I have recently approved the temporary importation by the Tasmanian Transport Commission of the vessel 'Rah' which is due to enter service early in December. The 'Straitsman' is presently in Launceston undergoing repairs. These are expected to continue well into 1975. 
The Australian Government is concerned that adequate transport links to outlying communities should be maintained. This loan to the Tasmanian Government recognises the needs of the people of King Island. For this reason I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 41 on the 1974 notice paper (Hansard, 3 October 1974, page 2233-2239). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 97 (Hansard, page 625, of 24 July 1974). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). The regulation of this type of equipment, except when operating on the roads, is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I understand that Question 1 784 put to the Minister for Labor and Immigration is identical and he will no doubt reply in full to the honourable member. 
Insofar as the operation of tractors and other rural vehicles on the roads is concerned, the Australian Transport Advisory Council has endorsed 'on road ' standards for motor vehicles. By definition these vehicles when driven on a road are motor vehicles and must meet the same standards required of all road vehicles. Similarly, general road safety education programs would apply to these vehicles when driven on the roads. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I was disappointed that the result was not more favourable. 
, (4) and (5) The concept of working surplus can be useful when considered in conjunction with the final operating result. As the level of depreciation, superannuation and furlough liability cannot be materially varied through action by the Commissioner, it can be useful to consider the result before and after deduction of these expenses. Other railway systems use a similar method when reporting their results. 
Yes. Passenger fares were increased by 10 per cent from 1 July 1974 and inter-system passenger fares will be increased by 10 percent from I December 1974. Classified freight rates were increased by 716 per cent to 40 per cent from 1 October 1974 while special freight rates have been individually reviewed. Every effort is being made to contain costs. 
in reply- I should like to clear up a few points which have been raised in this debate. We have seen a typical example of hypocritical humbug on the part of the Opposition in its approach to this Bill. Let us get the picture clear as far as the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  is concerned. When this problem first arose with the 'Straitsman' being taken off the King Island run he literally lived on my doorstep. He was never out of my office- putting propositions to me about what could be done. I did not receive one word of representation from a member of the Liberal or Country Parties or from one Liberal Tasmanian senator. They had no interest in this matter whatsoever. Not one of them made any representations to me. They could not give a damn what happened to the 'Straitsman' or to the King Island trade. Let us get the facts clear. These are the facts. The Liberal and Country Parties were not the least bit concerned about what was happening to King Island. The speeches this afternoon by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  show what humbugs they are when they make such speeches in this place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Personal reflections are out of order. The Minister will withdraw that remark. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I withdraw the remark. I just say that the Opposition is a pack of humbugs when its members come in on this matter in that way. Let us get the facts clear. When I made the statement about the 'Straitsman', it was based on information which was given to me by Captain Houfe. When I compared the information that he had given to me with the facts which were collected by the Australian National Line- the honourable member for Braddon had requested that I do this- I found that what Captain Houfe had said did not match the facts. I had given an assurance that I would do certain things on information given to me by Captain Houfe which was later proven to be incorrect and did not stand up to close scrutiny. If one is given wrong information by somebody who is involved in the matter under consideration, as far as I am concerned one is not bound by a decision which one made believing that the facts had been presented. 
Let us look at the attitude of the Opposition to Tasmanian shipping services. A lot has been said about the development of Grassy. The former Government provided a repayable loan of $677,500 and a non-repayable grant of the same amount. But the non-repayable grant was on the condition that, when the 'Straitsman' came into operation, the subsidy which was then being paid would be terminated. Yet, we have had spokesmen from the Liberal and Country Parties this afternoon talking about subsidies when it was the former Government which terminated the subsidy. When I became Minister for Transport, no subsidy was being paid because no service was being provided to King Island. The honourable member for Gippsland talked such bunkum about what he had done for Tasmanian shipping services. As Minister for Shipping and Transport, as he then was, the honourable member for Gippsland sat idly by and refused to give any assistance whatever to keep the 'Straitsman' operating. The tripe which he and the honourable member for Wentworth dished out this afternoon just shows what humbugs the Opposition members are - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  All right. If there is any reflection on those 2 honourable members, OK. The Opposition as a whole has to accept responsibilitity for the decisions which were made when it was the Government. The Premier of Tasmania made personal representations to the then Prime Minister and to the then Minister for Shipping and Transport for financial assistance. He received a stone cold 'no'. They were not prepared to make any money available. Those honourable members say that this loan should be in the form of a grant and a loan. The former Government was not even prepared to lend the Tasmanian Goverment $300,000 to solve its liquidity problems. No question arose at that time whether a grant or a loan should be given. All the Premier wanted was a loan at a reasonable rate of interest and the former Government was not even prepared to give Tasmania that loan. When the honourable member for Wentworth and the honourable member for Gippsland talk about loans and grants today, let them look at themselves and recall what their Government did. They will see that the former Government has a pretty sorry record. That is why the people of Tasmania, knowing that record, have not returned any Liberal or Country Party members to this House. Members representing Tasmania are all Labor Party members, because the Labor Party has done something for Tasmania over the years both as a State Government and as an Australian Government. 
That is all I want to say on this matter. When I hear honourable members opposite talking in the fashion to which I had to listen this afternoon, I am really riled to think that people can be such hypocrites. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I can assure the honourable member for Swan that at the present time the Perth Airport fire services are of the required International Civil Aviation Organisation standard; I believe they are category 9. The standard is governed by the number of aircraft movements in a 3-months period, and Perth complies with that standard. There are 1 1 categories all told. Sydney and Melbourne are in category 1 1 and, therefore, they have larger fire services than Perth has. However, should Perth's category increase by reason of the increase in the number of aircraft using the airport in a 3- months period its fire services will be stepped up to comply with that standard. But it will not be reduced below what the ICAO standard requires. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Report on a National Highways System by a committee of senior representatives of the Australian Government and State road authorities. In tabling this report I should make it clear to honourable members that this is not a report to the Australian Government. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The committee consisted of representatives from the Australian Government Department of Transport (Convenor and Chairman), the then Departments of Interior and Works, the Bureaux of Roads and Transport Economics, State Highway Departments and the National Association of State Road Authorities. 
The committee's terms of reference were to join in a co-operative study with a view to providing a sound basis on which to determine: 
Which system of roads should be chosen for a National Highway system taking into account the NAASRA Inter-Regional Group of National Routes. 
b ) Standards for the development of these routes. 
Costs. 
A program timetable. 
The Committee has finalised its studies. 
The committee has prepared its report for the heads of the Australian and State Government Authorities which established the committee (see list in answer to ( 1 ) above). The report has been accepted by the heads of these authorities. 
The heads of the authorities involved have agreed to the release of the report. It has now been printed and I will table the document at the earliest opportunity. 
The special study team comprised representatives of the Australian Government Departments of Transport and Works, the Bureaux of Roads and Transport Economics, the New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australian Departments of Main Roads and Ian Oliver and Associates Pty Ltd of Brisbane. 
The study team's research involved investigating alternative routes with a view to costing their developments; assessing their safety; preparing traffic forecasts; preparing interim planning and design standards and then preparing possible programs of development. 
The study team has submitted the results of its study to the committee which used these as a basis for its report. 
The results of the study team's investigations is a very large technical document and as such it would not be appropriate for tabling. However, I am considering making a copy available to the Parliamentary Library when the committee 's report is tabled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government's objective is that an equitable share of Australia's trade should be carried in Australian ships. Increased shares will be achieved progressively over a number of years. 
Australian flag participation in overseas liner trades is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian authorities are at present undertaking the necessary examination of the policy, administrative and legal implications of the UN Convention on a Code of Conduct for Liner Conference prior to decisions to ratify and implement. Implementation in Australia would require legislation of the Australian Parliament. 
The Article of the Convention relating to participation in the trade sets out principles to be observed by conferences. It includes provisions whereby national lines at each end of the trade have equal rights to participate in the trade carried by the conference and third shipping lines have the right to acquire a significant part of that trade such as 20 per cent. 
An oil shortage would not affect the implementation of these provisions as they set out rights and not obligations to carry conference trade, and conference members can mutually agree on any arrangements for participation in the trade. 
It is the Government's policy that Australian flag vessels must operate efficiently and the results of the overseas operations of the Australian National Line reflect this situation. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 presume that the honourable member means to refer to the Royal Commission into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. On 20 September I passed to the honourable member all those papers that had to that time been tendered to the Royal Commission. Additional papers were subsequently tendered to the Royal Commission on September 24. These documents with the exception of those already incorporated in Hansard on 19 September were made available to the honourable member on 27 September. The honourable member can be assured that I will continue to honour my undertaking of 1 9 December to pass to him documents tendered by Department of Transport officials to the Royal Commission. 
Further documents were tendered to the Royal Commission on 1 and 2 October and copies of these are being forwarded to the honourable member. 
My interpretation of the provisions of Section 288 and 289is as  follows- 
The coasting trade, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, is reserved to vessels which are licensed in accordance with Section 288. It is a condition of each licence that the crew of the licensed vessel are to be paid wages at the current rates ruling in Australia for seamen employed in that pan of the coasting trade in which the licensed vessel is operating and for the period during which the licensed vessel is engaged in the coasting trade. 
Pursuant to sub-section 2 of Section 286 of the Navigation Act, ships carrying passengers or cargo between ports under permit issued under Section 286 are not deemed to be engaged in the coasting trade and thus the requirements of Section 289 do not apply to such ships. 
, (5), (6) and (7) I think it is inappropriate to answer questions of this kind while the Royal Commission is conducting its inquiry. 
and (9) The provisions of sections 288 and 289 of the Navigation Act have been and will continue to be enforced having regard to the other Section or Sections of the Act which affect the application of Sections 288 and 289. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Royal Federation of Aero Clubs of Australia $22,000 per annum. The General Aviation Association $8,000 per annum. The Gliding Federation of Australia $19,000 per annum (including payment in recognition of a number of responsibilities delegated to the Federation). 
The Australian Government has provided financial assistance to the flying training movement in Australia since 1 926. The Assistance Scheme was last reviewed in 1 973 and as a result of this review it was decided to continue providing assistance to gliding and flying training by payment towards their secretariat expenses- the majority of which goes towards the maintenance of federal headquarters. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973, I present the annual report on the operations of the Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30 June 1974. The financial statements of Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30 June 1974 were tabled on 26 September 1974. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the site selection study by the Department of Transport entitled Albury-Wodonga Growth Centre Aerodrome, Road Safety and Standards Authority and Other Transport Units'. 
The answer to the hon.mourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
After inspecting the condition of the Highway on 16 October I arranged with the New South Wales Minister for Highways and Local Government for immediate discussions to be held with the Department of Main Roads on the steps to be taken to repair the road. 
While the Australian' Government will take full financial responsibility for the construction and maintenance of the Hume Highway, traffic limitation measures are the responsibility of the State Government. 
Over $3m will be spent repairing and upgrading damaged sections of the Hume Highway in New South Wales this financial year. A program which will ensure that the road is reconstructed and repaired to the best standard possible in the shortest time has been decided. This will involve 23 kilometers of reconstruction, 83 kilometers of asphaltic concrete paving and 220 kilometers of resealing during the remainder of this financial year. 
At present Australian Government Transport officials and the New South Wales Department of Main Roads are carrying out a study of the feasibility of an alternative route, between Goulburn and Albury. It is expected that their report will be completed towards the end of 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department does not collect port statistics. Ports are a State Government responsibility. I am not aware of any source of such detailed data. However the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in its Annual Report gives the average turn around time for vessel types by trade area. This information for the years 1970-1971 to 1972-1973 is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian companies operating vessels registered in Australian ports have advised the following Australian flag vessels were drydocked out of Australia during the last three years: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The provision of a new incinerator at Perth Airport to deal with quarantine or cross contaminated domestic food wastes is currently the subject of discussion with the Depanment of Health. Although the existing facilities are currently meeting demands it has been agreed that a new incinerator complex is desirable to cater more efficiently for the requirement and to meet future traffic growth. Design investigations are in hand. 
At this stage a firm target date for the completion of the incinerator is unavailable but we believe that the Department of Health is aiming for commencement of construction in the 197S-76 financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The provision of a new incinerator at Perth Airport to deal with quarantine or cross contaminated domestic food wastes is currently the subject of discussion with the Department of Health. Although the existing facilities are meeting demands it has been agreed that a new incinerator complex is desirable to cater more efficiently for the requirement and to meet future traffic growth. Design investigations are under way. 
At this stage a firm target date for the completion of the incinerator is unavailable, but we believe that the Depanment of Health is aiming for commencement of construction in the 1975-76 financial year. 
I am not aware that a danger does exist at Penh Airport. Our advice is that the Department of Health is satisfied with the results obtained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The implication which the honourable member might draw from the answer given on 15 October 1974, to a question asked by the honourable member for Tangney is that passengers who travel in aircraft without their seat belts fastened are always at some risk of injury resulting from an unexpected encounter with turbulence. The circumstances of this particular occurrence confirmed the validity of that vie w. 
In this occurrence the rearmost three seat unit on the port side of the aircraft did become detached from the floor mounting rails. 
This particular three seat unit in Boeing 727 aircraft is one which is not infrequently removed to facilitate the carriage of additional galley equipment on flights such as from Brisbane to port Moresby and return. It is apparent that the rear fastening lugs of this unit were not properly inserted in the floor mounting rails and it is reasonable to presume that this installation error occurred when the seat unit was last replaced after a Papua New Guinea flight. This situation is not easily detectable once it has occurred until such time as extreme loadings of the son experienced in this incident arise. 
I am assured both by the Department of Transport and Trans Australia Airlines that the design of the seat unit floor fastenings is adequate so long as proper care is exercised by installation personnel to ensure that all the attaching lugs are within the mounting rail before the fore and aft positioning pin is inserted. Trans Australia Airlines has circulated an advice to all maintenance personnel reminding them of the need for proper care at the time these installations are being carried out. 
-The Government has decided as a matter of policy that Australia should have its own tankers, which should be carrying at least 40 per cent of our crude oil imports. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party does not know what he is talking about. That is typical of the irresponsible statements that he makes from time to time. When his Party talks about increasing the cost of crude oil by 40 per cent this indicates one thing to me: His interjection is not based on fact. He has no regard for costs. 
-You are an idiot, if ever there was one. 
We have just listened to one of the most apologetic speeches delivered in this House to justify a bushranger act. The facts are that a procedure has been adopted and accepted by the State parliaments of Australia and by the Australian Parliament whereby when a vacancy occurs in the Senate it is filled by a member of the Party to which the deceased or retiring senator belonged. It does not matter how the Opposition twists that procedure around, it cannot come up with any answer other than that the proposal is a bushranger act. 
-I did not rise tonight to take part in a discussion on the matter raised by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner).  I have prepared for the Parliament a statement on the matter raised by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  in the Grievance Day debate last Thursday. One of the things that concerns me is the fact that the honourable member did not bother to consult anyone in my Department before he came in here, using all sorts of information without checking his facts and using some pretty strong language about the condition of the people concerned. He showed little regard for the feelings of the relatives of the deceased men. He is a new member of this Parliament. In future he should check his facts before he speaks. At any time he considers that there may be some irregularities in the Department of Transport he is at liberty to come and talk to me privately or, if he wishes, to talk to members of my Department and check out his facts. 
I refer to his statement concerning the deaths of 2 parachutists during the Australian parachute championships at Rylstone on 29 December 1974. 
The 2 parachutists were killed while conducting a night parachuting operation at the site of the 1974-1975 Austraiian parachute championships. Three parachutists jumped from a Piper Navajo aircraft at approximately 0145 hours on the morning of 29 December. It is believed they planned to link up during the initial part of the descent before opening their parachutes at 2 000 feet above the ground. They jumped within 3 seconds of each other. It has been established that the first 2 parachutists did link up and were still jinked up when they hit the ground and were killed instantly. Neither parachutist made any attempt to activate his parachute. The third made no attempt to join the others and activated his parachute shortly after leaving the aircraft. He descended to the ground safely. Investigation has revealed that the 3 parachutists involved had decided to make the jump on the night of the accident. All 3 parachutists had consumed alcohol shortly before boarding the aircraft to make the descent. They did not consult at any time with any officials of the Australian Parachute Federationthe APF. They made a private arrangement with the pilot who was himself an experienced parachutist. The operation was conducted with reference to only a few other individuals who assisted by providing car headlights to illuminate the aircraft's takeoff and landing path. 
Air Navigation Regulation 128 makes provision for the Director-General of Civil Aviation to specifiy the conditions under which parachute descents may be made. These conditions are specified in Air Navigation Order 29.1. For the information on honourable members I table those Air Navigation Orders. The APF has compiled its own regulations- for the information of honourable members I also table the regulations -in addition to those contained in the ANO, and all members of that Federation are required to comply. The facts indicate that the night operation in question was conducted in contravention of both the Air Navigation Regulations and the Air Navigation Orders as well as the APF regulations. 
The honourable member questioned the failure of the departmental officer to ensure the regulations were observed. He stated further that, despite the Department's responsibility in this matter, a situation developed in which, at the biggest parachuting competition in Australia, these operational regulations were breached in the presence of an officer from the Department of Transport. The Department's approach to supervision of parachuting operations recognises that parachuting is normally undertaken as a sport. For this reason the direct supervision of day to day activities of parachutists has been undertaken largely by the APF whose members make up approximately 95 per cent of all parachutists in Australia. The Department has always found the Federation to be a responsible body, and this is borne out by its actions following this accident. 
Nevertheless, the Department has employed an Inspector (Parachutists) since June 1974 and he is responsible for the development of regulations regarding conduct of parachute descents and also periodically observes the conduct of field parachuting operations. This officer was on duty at the championships on 26, 27 and 28 December. He was present either at the drop zone or within the immediate area at all times on those days when scheduled parachute operations were being conducted. He stated quite categorically that he observed no contravention of regulations during this time. He left the vicinity of the dropping zone at the completion of parachute operations on the afternoon of 28 December and retired for the night between 10.30 and 11p.m. 
The unauthorised night jump took place more than  5Vi  hours after the championship parachute operations had ceased. The circumstances in which this jump took place were such as to preclude any possibility of the departmental officer preventing it from taking place. He was first made aware of this operation when woken at approximately 3 o'clock in the morning. At approximately 4 a.m., shortly after the bodies were found, he took action immediately to alert the Air Safety Investigation Branch of the Department which had an investigating officer on his way to Rylestone by 9.30 that morning. 
The honourable member refers to other examples of parachutists consuming alcohol and also to the Victorian parachute championships held some weeks previously. The APF regulations specify that a parachutist shall not have consumed alcohol within the 12 hours prior to conducting a parachute descent. It is known that at the Victorian championships APF officials observed one parachutist consuming alcohol prior to a planned descent. This parachutist was subsequently suspended from all parachute operations for 28 days and had his parachute instructor rating suspended for 6 months by the Federation. 
The honourable member is correct in stating that the organisers at the Australian championships reduced the time limit for consumption of alcohol prior to making a parachute descent to 8 hours. This decision was made after consultation with the departmental officer present and was based on the knowledge that the current regulation with relation to the consumption of alcohol by flight crew members is now eight hours and that a decision had been taken to reflect this figure in a revised issue of ANO 29.1 currently being processed. 
It is not correct that regulations were varied to permit a lower opening height than that specified in ANO 29.1. The method by which dropping zone safety officers determine the opening height of a parachutist is by timing his descent under the parachute. The altitude of the championship site above sea level required that the time be reduced to compensate for the increased rate of descent. Competitors were still required to activate their parachutes by 2000 above ground level. This action was taken by officers of the Federation after consultation with the departmental officer. 
The honourable member referred to the suspension of the Australian championships on the day following the accident. The circumstances leading to this suspension were that the Department's inspector observed 4 people he knew to be competitors consuming alcohol in a nearby township during the lunch hour. (Extension of time granted). As no breach of regulations could technically occur until these competitors displayed obvious intentions of undertaking a parachute descent he was unable to take direct action against them. However, he drew the matter to the attention of officials of the APF and suggested that they take steps to make it clear this type of behaviour would not be tolerated. The APF thereupon suspended all parachute operations for the remainder of the day and ensured that competitors were made aware of the reason for this action. 
The honourable member also referred to alleged breaches on the night before the fatalities by the same pilot from whose plane the deceased jumped. He claimed that no action appeared to have been taken by the Department. Apart from the allegation by the honourable member, the Department has received no evidence of any flight being conducted on the night prior to the accident. However, on 3 February 1975 the Department received a hearsay report of a flight which was alleged to have taken place at about 2 a.m. on 27 December 1974, that is, approximately 48 hours before the fatal flight. This allegation is being pursued by the Department with persons who may have witnessed such a flight, if indeed it took place. The Department of Transport commenced an investigation on the morning of the accident. The APF at the same time started its own investigation. It became evident very early in the departmental investigation that the pilot had probably contravened regulations and it was decided to consult the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor with a view to prosecution action. As soon as sufficient evidence and reports were available they were forwarded to the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor by the Regional Director, New South Wales region. This was done on 17 January 1974. 
Action against the surviving parachutist was also considered but was deferred until it was known what action would be taken by the APF. On 20 January the APF recommended to the Department of Transport that this parachutist's approval as the person responsible for supervision of parachute operations by the Canberra skydivers, granted in accordance with ANO 29. 1 , be revoked. The Department took such action on 14 February. The APF, as a result of its investigation, has taken action against the surviving parachutist, the pilot and a passenger who accompanied the flight. It grounded the surviving parachutist with effect from the day of the accident. Later a meeting of the New South Wales disciplinary board of the APF further grounded him for a period of 18 weeks with effect 1 February 1975. His senior instructor's rating was also suspended for period of 6 months. The APF also took action against the pilot, who is an experienced parachutist and a member of the Federation. He too had his senior instructor's rating suspended for 6 months and it has been recommended to the Federation board of directors that it be cancelled. 
Because of his limited part, the final action against the passenger was a severe reprimand. In view of the action taken by the Federation against members contravening its regulations the statement by the honourable member that the Federation has failed to enforce its own regulations is incorrect. It is evident that the Federation does in fact exercise strict control over parachuting operations conducted under its auspices. In this respect, on 20 January 1975, the Federation's Director of Safety sent a hard hitting letter to all safety officers of the Federation. The object of this letter was to stress the need for continued supervision and control over any problems associated with alcohol or drugs. I seek leave to incorporate the letter in Hansard. 
-I thank the House. Apart from the consideration by the Deputy Crown Solicitor of the grounds for prosecuting the pilot involved in this accident, the Department is also considering the need for action against his licence. The events alleged to have taken place on the night 48 hours prior to the accident which came to the Department's notice on 3 February are possibly very relevant to that question and as soon as those allegations have been resolved, a decision in respect of the pilot's licence will be made. The position meanwhile is safeguarded since the pilot's licence is now also suspended in respect of other failures to comply with the air navigation regulations alleged to have taken place in Queensland earlier in 1 974. 
-As far as the Government is concerned, the criticisms over airport rentals are completely unjustified. I can give the honourable member some information which would substantiate that statement. First and foremost, as to whether the matter has been finalised, the answer is no. We are still conferring with the airline industry. In fact, a meeting will take place tomorrow afternoon between the general manager of one of the airlines and the Department of Transport. 
-I am sorry. Do not blame me; blame the acoustics. If the honourable member would like me to raise my voice I certainly will do so. I will repeat my reply to the honourable member for Bonython which unfortunately honourable members opposite could not hear. No final decision has been made on this matter of airport rentals. A further meeting will be held tomorrow afternoon with one of the airlines for the purpose of discussing the alternatives. I would like to bring to the attention of honourable members some of the reasons why airport terminal rentals have had to be reviewed. When it is taken into consideration that in 1974-75 the projected total cost of operating terminals including the amortisation of the funds that have been poured into them, is a net $9m a year and yet the amount of rental that will be received will be only $2.2m, it can be seen that they are subsidised to the extent of about $7m a year, or 77 per cent of the total cost of their operation. 
To give an example, the rental received from the Sydney international terminal is $532,551, but the net cost to be recovered of operating that airport terminal is $3,591,348. Let me give honourable members the breakdown of that amount. The cleaning of the building alone costs $525,908. Maintenance of the terminal costs $442,695. The airport patrol and security costs $175,144, administration costs $126,440, electricity and gas charges total $267,873 and local government rates and water charges come to $163,420 and so on. If honourable member of the Opposition can justify the general taxpayer meeting those costs, I am afraid we on this side of the House cannot concur with them. This building cost about $32m which will be amortised over a period of 40 years- that is, at  V-h  per cent a year. The interest rates on the amortisation vary between  5Vi  per cent and 8 per cent a year. These are costs which the airline industry is being asked to carry. I instance another case- I do not propose to name the places- where the rental at the moment is $2,125 and the cleaning bill alone is $8,226. At another small airport where the airlines are paying no rental at all, the cleaning bill is $284. We believe that those people who use the airports should be required to pay for them. If the Opposition believes, as it did when it was in government, in building Taj Mahals like the Sydney International Airport or Melbourne's Tullamarine airport it should realise that somebody has to pay for them. 
-Why do you not take sensible points of order. 
The question of repairs for the restoration of the wharf is a matter which my colleague the Minister for Northern Development is in a position to answer; I am not. 
-It is his responsibility, not mine. We are prepared to provide facilities and to restore the railway to carry the Frances Creek iron ore at a commercial rate. Up to this point we have been able to carry the ore at a reasonable rate. The honourable member said that this has been one of the main sources of revenue of the Commonwealth Railways; in the past it has been one of its main sources of losses. The Frances Creek Mining Co. has been subsidised because the Commonwealth Railways has carried the company's ore at a very reduced rate. We are prepared to carry it, but at a commercial rate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973 in order to create the Australian National Railways Commission, thus providing for the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth Railways including the transfer of State railways; to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature; to make amendments to the Act, which will bring it into line with current commercial practices of statutory authorities; and to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General. At the same time the opportunity will be taken to make several amendments of a machinery nature in relation to financial provisions of the Act and to effect some largely formal amendments. The proposed amendments are intended to update the Act, which has not received a major review since its enactment in 1 9 1 7. 
The amendments will also enable the proposed Commission effectively to perforin its role as one of Australia's major rail systems and provide it with the organisational structure and operational powers necessary for it to consolidate into a single system, the State railways, that may be transferred under the Government 's rail transfer program. 
Regrettably, these amendments to the Commonwealth Railways Act have been a long time in coming and are long overdue. In fact a previous Cabinet in 1958 directed that a committee be set up to examine the possible reorganisation of Commonwealth Railways but little concrete, action was taken. It was only when the present Government came to office with a commitment to create a modern and efficient rail system for Australia, that legislation emerged. Unfortunately this was the pattern of railway development under our predecessors. The previous Government bogged down nationally important projects such as the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line and Adelaide's standard gauge connection. It was left for the present Government to have the necessary legislation passed and get the projects off the ground. I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to the development of the Commonwealth Railways and its significant achievements over its 63 years of history. 
-Never mind Gonnagonna do something but never ever got around to it. Historically, the Trans-Australian railway was one of the principal inducements for Western Australia to join the other Australian colonies in Federation. This railway was the first railway built by an Austraiian government and had as its prime purpose to link Australian States, whereas most State railways had been built with the object of either exploiting individual States' resources or channelling trade to State capitals. 
The building of the Trans-Australia Railway of over 1680 kilometres was a major achievement in itself. It was commenced in 1912 and despite the inhospitable nature of the terrain and wartime supply problems the line was finished in October 1917. A significant factor in this achievement which contributed to the speed of construction of the Une was the use of track laying machines. Innovation and preparedness to accept new technology has marked many Commonwealth Railways achievements. In 1951 it operated the first mainline diesel electric locomotive to be manufactured in Australia and within 6 years Commonwealth Railways were completely dieselised, at a time when some Australian railway systems were still placing steam engines in service. Today the Commonwealth Railways is a leader in railway operating practices, especially in the design of large freight wagons and operation of high horsepower diesel locomotives. However, the achievements of the Commonwealth Railways would not have been possible without the dedication of its staff who, with their families, are required to live in some of the remotest parts of Australia and under some of the harshest climatic conditions this continent has to offer. I would like to put on record the appreciation of this Parliament of the service Commonwealth Railways staff have given the Australian community, I am sure that this tradition of service will be carried forward to the new Australian National Railways Commission. 
The importance of Commonwealth Railways to Australia's total transport system has increased dramatically over the last decade. Over the period 1949 to 1959 freights carried by Commonwealth Railways showed an increase of 10 per cent per year, a figure which went up to 1 1.5 per cent per year for the period 1959 to 1969. In 1973 freight carried between eastern States and Western Australia increased by 16 per cent and freight to the Northern Territory by 20 per cent, and in 1973-74 traffic on the Trans-Australian railway reached new records, although the freight carried on the Central and North Australian railways declined due to severe flooding. The reasons for the overall increase in traffic include growth in the Australian economy; the realisation by many shippers of the advantages of rail, especially forwarding agents, and their consequent diversion of freight from other modes to rail; and the increased operating efficiency of Australie 's railways resulting from improved rolling stock and rail standardisation. Passenger traffic on the Commonwealth Railways has also increased due to the high standard of comfort and service offered on trains of world class such as the Indian-Pacific and the TransAustralian. 
Commonwealth Railways has recently commenced a railway project of world stature- the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line. This line runs from Tarcoola on the Trans-Australian Railway to Alice Springs, 830 kilometres to the north. This railway presents a modern-day pioneering challenge. By any standard it is a mammoth undertaking; it is in fact the longest new railway built in Australia since the Trans-Australian Railway in 1917 and, when one considers that it will be only 70 kilometres shorter than the rail distance between Melbourne and Sydney, some idea of the size of the project can be gained. The average person has little comprehension of the complexity of a project such as this. It involves a meticulous survey by both air and land over hundreds of kilometres of featureless country, the opening of ballast quarries, the welding of miles of continuous rail, the laying of hundreds of thousands of sleepers, the building of a telecommunication system and the feeding and quartering of men in some of the most inhospitable desert country in Australia. The decision to make Commonwealth Railways the constructing authority for this project is a recognition of the high standard of its engineering and organisational skills. It is estimated that the project will take 5 years to complete, but within 3 years a railhead will be established to enable the road-rail movement of goods. When completed, the new line will provide a vastly improved railway service for Central and Northern Australia. 
Yet, despite this progress, Australia's railways on the whole are in a pitiful condition. For years they have been starved of the capital funds necessary for them to keep abreast of advances in railway technology and meet the transport demands placed upon them by a growing economy. For example, we have the ridiculous situation where State Railway deficits are increasing at an alarming rate, yet the railways have had to turn away business. Railways at present need over 3200 extra wagons for inter-system traffic alone. It has been estimated that the Victorian, South Australian, New South Wales and Commonwealth railways lost over $66m in possible revenue in 1972-73 because they were not able to meet the demands of inter-system traffic. 
This Government was quick to react to the problem and in the 1974 Budget the Government announced a continuing rolling stock purchasing program which over the next 2 years will provide some 1300 modern bogie wagons for inter-system use. These wagons will be available for lease to the States. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 1974 1 approved some 16 cargo movements in unlicensed vessels because the freight concerned could not be accommodated either by Australian tonnage or rail transport. In regard to rail movements inquiries established that this mode could not assist with the freight due to a number of reasons including curtailment of services due to fuel shortages, congestion of rail transfer centres and primarily a shortage of rolling stock. As a result some 3700 motor vehicles and over 1 1 000 tonnes of cargo were approved for movement by foreign vessels. This led to hostility and ill feeling among maritime unions. In addition increased quantities of freight were forced onto interstate highways resulting in their rapid deterioration and increased social costs to the community in the form of accidents. I have also directed the Bureau of Transport Ecomonics to carry out an investigation into the investment needs of Australia's railways. This study will assist in determining priorities for future railway investment. 
With the election of the present Government came a new approach to Australia's railway problems. It was realised that a basic obstacle to the creation of a modern and efficient railway system for Australia was the division of responsibility for railways between 6 States and one Australian authority which in the past had led to inter-system rivalries, duplication of facilities, misallocation of resources, and the lack of a national approach to railway policy. The Prime Minister recognised this in his 1 972 policy speech when he offered to accept the transfer of the railways of any State that was prepared to offer them. I am pleased to say that negotiations on the transfer of South Australian and Tasmanian railways are progressing satisfactorily. Honourable members will be aware that the present Premier of New South Wales recently announced, amongst other things, the withdrawal of his State from the transfer discussions. New South Wales thus joins the other States that have Liberal or Country Party governments, in refusing to discuss meaningfully the Prime Minister's offer. This shortsighted approach, reflecting their inability to see beyond their own State borders, is hindering the development of Australia. However, I am convinced that good sense will prevail in the long run. 
The rail transfer program, coupled with initiatives the Government has taken in relation to rolling stock, and major projects which the Government is undertaking such as the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and the standard gauge connection for Adelaide, usher in a new era for Australia's railways in which the Australian National Railways Commission will have to play a major role. Consequently it is essential that the Commission be established now, and be given the necessary structure, powers and functions for it to operate as an efficient statutory authority charged with making a vital contribution to Australia's national transport system. 
Let me now speak separately to the main provisions of the Bill. I am having circulated an explanatory memorandum to assist honourable members in their consideration of this Bill. Firstly, the name 'Commonwealth Railways' will be changed to the 'Australian National Railways'. The new name is more in keeping with the responsibilities of the new Commission which will have as its task the operation of a national railway, ultimately constituted as a result of the amalgamation of what were previously State railways. In fact I feel the name 'national ' is long overdue as the operation of the Commonwealth Railways has never been confined to any one State, as it has lines in 2 States and 2 Territories. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. (Quorum formed) 
-As I have indicated, Commonwealth Railways is undergoing a period of expansion and growth. This is placing an increasingly heavy burden on a single Commissioner, as the Commonwealth Railways is presently constituted, and in the event of a transfer this burden could become intolerable. It is therefore proposed to create a Commission which will be called the Australian National Railways Commission. It will consist of 7 Commissioners of which one will be a full-time  Chairman  and the other six part-time Commissioners. Appointments to the Commission will be in accordance with the usual practice, by the GovernorGeneral, and will be for a 5-year period. It is the intention of the Government to recommend to the Governor-General the appointment of a prominent trade unionist as one of the part-time Commissioners. This will be in accordance with the practice which the Government has followed in relation to other statutory authorities such as Qantas Airways Ltd, the Reserve Bank Board and the National Pipe Line Authority. I should also point out that in relation to government transport undertakings this is not only the policy of the Australian Labor Government; the New South Wales Liberal Government appointed  Mr Barry  Unsworth, an organiser of the New South Wales Labor Council, as a Commissioner of the New South Wales Public Transport Commission. 
Sections 5 to 15 of the proposed Act provide for the establishment of the new Commission and contain the normal provisions relating to appointment, salary determination, leave of absence, resignation, termination of appointment and meetings, appropriate to statutory authorities of this type. In my opening remarks I indicated that the proposed Act would make provision for the transfer of a State railway to the Australian Government. This provision can be seen in section 16a of the proposed Act which provides authority for State railway systems acquired by the Australian Government to become the property of the Commission. This is also one of the purposes of the new sections 31a and 3 IB which empower the Commission to provide land transport and engineering services and provide that the Commission is not limited to purely railway services. As honourable members will know, most State railways provide some form of ancillary services, particularly in relation to door-to-door delivery of goods and the provision of road passenger services. Consequently if the Australian National Railways are to provide the same range of services as former State railways it is essential they have the power to operate such ancillary services. 
Clause 31c enables the Commission to carry out arrangements with the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Airlines Commission for the transport of goods and passengers. A similar provision is contained in the Australian National Airlines Commission Act. I am certain that honourable members from Tasmania will recognise the importance which this clause could assume in the event of a transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways and the benefits which would flow to that State from a co-ordinated transport service provided by the Australian National Line and the Australian National Railways. I said also in my opening remarks that one of the purposes of the proposed Bill is to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature. This particularly relates to the new financial provisions contained in sections 55 to 57 of the proposed Act which replace sections 55, 56 and 57 in the principal Act. The purpose of the new financial provisions is also to provide the new Commission with a degree of financial autonomy including the power to open and maintain bank accounts- clause 57d. The only major financial difference between the new Commission and similar statutory authorities, such as the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Airlines Commission, is that it is proposed to continue the exemption of the railway from paying tax. This is provided by clause 57H. The reasons for this decision are that no State railway is subject to taxation, and the Government does not want to put the ANR at a disadvantage vis-a-vis State railways, and that the ANR will not be in competition with private organisations as are the ANL and Trans-Australia Airlines. 
It is also the intention of the Bill to amend the principal Act so that it will be brought into line with current commercial practices in statutory authorities. The proposed amendments to section 21 of the principal Act will empower the Commission to lease railway property. Subject to section 23, which requires the approval of the Minister if the lease is to run over 10 years, this amendment will enable the Commission to gain revenue from land which is not immediately required for railway purposes without referring each individual case to the Minister for his approval. Section 23 of the principal Act will be replaced with a new section which increases the value of contracts the Commission may arrange without ministerial approval from $10,000 to $100,000. This is a realistic figure in relation to the responsibilities of the Commission and modern commercial practices. A comparative provision exists in the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1974. 
The amendments proposed for sections 27 and 28 are basically operational provisions relating to the carriage of dangerous and bulky goods respectively, so that persons are not permitted to carry or require the Commission to carry such goods. The amendments also extend the provisions of section 27 and 28 to road vehicles owned by the Commission. The replacement of section 33A with a new section will enable the Commission to sell, among other things, liquor to travellers and non-travellers without distinction. The wording of the present Act is such that the Commissioner cannot sell liquor to friends of travellers or to his staff in remote locations. The 
Auditor-General's Report of 1972-73 brought to light administrative difficulties in relation to sections 50 and 51 of the principal Act. The Auditor-General took the view that under section 50 the Commissioner should certify that positions were required before making appointments. Section 51, which was last amended over 21 years ago, provided that the creation of an office with a salary of more than $1,700 per annum was subject to approval by the GovernorGeneral. 
The proposed amendments repeal sections 46, 50, 51 and 52 and replace them with new sections 46, 46 A, 50 and 51. The new section 46 A has been included providing for the position of General Manager of the Commission. The net effect of the new sections is to remove the administrative problems which sections 50 and 5 1 presented by providing that the Commission may appoint such staff as it thinks necessary and that the Commission may determine terms and conditions of service subject to approval by the Public Service Board. The Commission may not determine a position at a salary rate exceeding $16,282, which is at present the salary of a Class 1 1 officer in the Public Service, without ministerial approval, unless a higher rate or method of determining the higher rate is provided by regulation. This in effect overcomes the necessity of continually amending the Act with each increase in salary for railway employees. 
The new section 50 requires that the Commission furnish a report to the Minister annually of the number of permanent offices in the railway service; while the new section 5 1 is a standard section and provides that the Commission is an approved authority for the purpose of the Superannuation Act, and makes provision for superannuation for the  Chairman  and the General Manager of the Commission. Clauses 27, 28 and 29 of the amending Bill are transitional provisions enabling the Commission to take over from the Commissioner. There are also some formal amendments and these are detailed in the Schedule to the Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian volunteer coast guard organisations receive grants from the States in some cases, and are assisted by public subscription in others. The Australian Government does not provide financial assistance to these organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance with the Government's cost recovery policy the Department of Transport is currently reviewing all facilities and services provided to the aviation industry. Until such time as the review is completed and I have received the recommendations of the Department I am not able to say what effect the review will have on departmental fire fighting services or comment on the possibility of them being replaced at some aerodromes by municipal services. 
It may be of interest to the honourable member that the following fire services have been withdrawn over past years: 
Commonwealth Railways (Question No. ISIS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
3307. 
(a) 955, (b) 2352. 
Appointment to permanent office is dependent upon an employee having completed twelve months satisfactory service and a vacancy existing in the established permanent strength of the classification to which the employee is to be appointed. Appointment is subject to the employee undergoing medical examination to ensure that his health and physical fitness are such to justify his acceptance as a contributor to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund or to the Provident Account. 
Reviews of established permanent staff strength are conducted as required having regard to minimum staff requirements of Commonwealth Railways operations. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Australian Shipbuilding Industry Assistance Policy which enables shipowners to apply for Australian Government subsidy on ships built in Australian shipyards. 
The Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan which provides for both development and maintenance grants by the Australian Government in respect of licensed aerodromes. 
(a) Shipbuilding Industry Assistance Policy. 
Aerodromes- Development Grant and AerodromesMaintenance Grant. 
(a) To ensure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. 
To permit local communities to maintain and improve their aerodromes primarily as the local communities feel appropriate in meeting their local requirements. 
(a) Ships must exceed 150 tons gross construction tonnage or, if fishing vessels, be over 70 ft long on the load water line. Public tenders must be called for the ship. Approval of the amount of subsidy by the Minister and concurrence in this by the Treasurer depend on a recommendation from the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
Both maintenance and development grants need to be economically justified. However, development grants are also made available to better meet emergency circumstances, e.g. to improve the all-weather capability of an aerodrome or to provide night lighting for aeromedical services. 
(a) 1948 for Shipbuilding Industry Assistance. 
1957 for Aerodrome Maintenance Grants: 1958 for Aerodrome Development Grants. 
(a) Section 47 of the Australian Shipping Commission Act and Cabinet decisions. (Draft legislation is at present being prepared for the Ship Construction Bounty Act.) 
Government decision of August 1957 for Maintenance Grants and July 1 958 for Development Grants. 
(a) By the periodic issue of policy statements. 
Over the past 17 years the Aerodrome Local Ownership scheme has become quite well known throughout Australia. From time to time booklets are issued which summarise the scheme; the Department joins in discussion with Local Government associations and, on request, with individual Local Governments. 
(8) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard) 4 December 1974, page 4590. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Special Minister of State to Parliamentary Question No. 1862 (Hansard, pages 4841 to 4847 of 5 December 1974). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As the Australian Government wishes to see Australian tankers introducedintothe overseas trade at an early date, it will be necessary to obtain the required vessels from overseas. At this stage no decision has been taken on whether the vessels will be obtained by purchase or bareboat charter. In these circumstances I am unable to indicate the capital cost of the Australian Government's initiative in overseas tankers. However, it should be noted that if the tankers are chartered then the only capital expenditure required will be that necessary to modify the vessels to Australian standards. 
-In view of the honourable member's request I shall try to be brief in replying to his question. The facts of the matter are that the Air Transport Group of the Department of Transport made a decision on this question in the form of a recommendation to me that a particular airline should be permitted to operate the service between the mainland of Australia and Lord Howe Island. I was prepared to go ahead with that recommendation and to authorise- I think the firm's proper name is North Coast Airlines- to operate the service from Coffs Harbour and Port Macquarie. There would have been connecting nights by Eastwest Airlines Ltd and Airlines of New South Wales operating from Sydney to those 2 centres. Then they would have operated the service from those 2 cities to Lord Howe Island. 
I received representations from a member of the Lord Howe Island Board requesting a direct service from Sydney to Lord Howe Island. I agreed to that request and also to the request of the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Fife,  to allow the State Government time to examine whether another operator could be licensed to carry on that service. I believe the New South Wales Government was to interview another operator yesterday. At this point I have no information as to the result of yesterday's conference. This Government has not held up the licensing. We were not instrumental in any way whatsoever in Airlines of New South Wales cancelling it. As the honourable members would know, Airlines of New South Wales or Ansett Airlines of Australia made a press statement which clearly indicated that the reason for Ansett 's withdrawing its services was the tactics employed by the Australian Pilots Federation. 
-The honourable member asked me that question privately last week. I told him that I had not seen the 'Bulletin' report. I have since seen it. I told him that at that stage I had not received the report from the Bureau of Roads which was doing the study. I can now advise the honourable member that I  receivedthereport.Ihavenotcompletedread-  ing it yet and I am not in a position to reply to the question until - 
-I admit to being a slow reader and not over-bright, but the honourable member will never recognise that that also applies to him. He will never look in the mirror. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Road Safety and Standards Authority Bill is a most important measure, well warranting the time and consideration of this the national Parliament. The tragic toll on our roads is a national problem which requires vigorous and coordinated action at the national level. The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Road Safety and Standards Authority as a statutory body responsible to the Minister for Transport. The objectives of the Authority are set out in clause 4 of the Bill. They are the promotion of road safety, promotion of means for the control of vehicle emissions and consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles. 
Let me briefly put into perspective the human devastation and material waste that results from accidents on Australian roads. In 1974, 3571 Australians lost their lives in road accidents. We do not yet know, and will not know for a couple of months, how many were injured or how the fatalities were spread among the various groups of road users. The position in 1973 was 3679 people killed and 95 204 injured. In the 10 years up to and including 1973, 34 000 Australians had been killed and 850 000 injured in road accidents. To put this another way, road accidents rank fourth among the major causes of death in Australia. They are responsible for half of all accidental deaths and are the major cause of death for males under the age of 25 years- a group upon whom so much of our national hopes and aspirations rests. These are sobering figures indeed. Australia simply cannot alford to continue killing 10 people and injuring 250 people a day in road accidents. 
The tragedy and suffering from this maiming and death touch nearly everyone in the community in one way or another. I am sure there are many in this House who have had the numbing experience of hearing of the death or serious injury of a relative or close friend. Even in economic terms the cost of road accidents to the community is staggering. Estimates compiled a year or so ago put the annual cost as high as $ 1000m. This represents about 2 per cent of the gross national product, $75 per head, $180 per registered vehicle or lc per vehicle kilometre. It must be apparent to all that the road toll is one of modern man's greatest diseases. But like other diseases it has to be tackled logically and positively if its impact is to be minimised. This is what the Bill is all about- a logical and positive step through which a more concerted effort can be mounted to promote the safety of everyone using our roads. 
Apalling though these figures are in the aggregate, the task of reducing the road toll is by no means an easy one. Accidents resulting in casualties occur on average only once for every one and a quarter million kilometres travelled on Australia's roads. Moreover, road accidents are rarely caused by a single factor. They represent failures in the operation of the interacting components of a large and complicated transport system involving the vehicle, the road environment, the road user and his social environmrnt. Consequently a substantial and sustained improvement in road safety will be attained only by raising the efficiency ofthe system to a much higher level- a task which will demand objective analysis ofthe problems involved and a high degree of co-operation between the contributing authorities. We certainly will not get there by adopting ' by guess and by God ' methods or pursuit of personal hunches. 
The task is further complicated by a complex institutional framework. Control of the factors affecting safety on Australian roads is currently exercised by the governments of the States and Territories through their individual legislation in respect of vehicle design and usage, driver licensing, traffic regulations, road planning and construction, traffic control, etc. Control is even further fragmented by a growing number of organisations with interests and responsibilities in one aspect or another of the road safety problem. Although there may be scope for further streamlining this framework there are certain inherent limitations on how far this can be carried in a broadly based field like road safety. Thus, fragmentation of authority is a fact of life which represents a continuing impediment to effective action to improve the standard of safety on Austraiian roads. 
Over the last few years we have seen a change in the pattern of road deaths and injuries, coinciding with the introduction of compulsory seat belt wearing legislation and the continued extension of vehicle safety design rules into Australian cars. In the 3-year period from 1970 to 1973 vehicle occupant fatalities declined from 2693 in 1970 to 2463 in 1973, a drop of 9 per cent. Over this same period total motor vehicles on the register have gone up from 4.8 million to 5.6 million, an increase of 17 per cent. This means that the occupant fatality rate per 10 000 vehicles registered has dropped from about 5.6 to 4.4. However, not all vehicle occupants are subject to compulsory seat belt wearing laws. A particularly tragic aspect of the road toll is the death of so many young children. In 1970 there were 82 children under 7 years killed who were passengers in cars; by 1973 this had risen to 98, an increase of 20 per cent. Over the same period injuries increased from 2679 to 3033. 
Again fatalities of pedestrians, cyclists and motor cyclists, that is those other road users who have not benefitted from seat belt wearing and safer vehicle design, have gone up from 1 105 in 1970 to 1216 in 1973, an increase of 10 per cent. Among these the increase in motor cyclist deaths is particularly alarming. In 1973, 330 motor cyclists lost their lives compared with 173 in 1970, an increase of 91 per cent. Over this period, motor cycle registrations increased by 84 per cent from 114 000 in 1970 to 210 000 in 1973. It is obvious that despite our successes in recent years we have much to do to bring the road toll under greater control, with a particular need to concentrate on the most vulnerable groups. 
The other 2 fields of endeavour proposed for the Authority are of considerable importance to the community. They should be seen as part of the Government's objectives of improving the quality of life in our cities and of protecting the consumer in respect of the quality of the goods and services he buys. Air pollution caused by motor vehicles is a matter of concern to the majority of Australians who live in our major cities. Vehicles are said to contribute 90 per cent of the carbon monoxide pollutants, 65 per cent of the hydrocarbons and 55 per cent of the nitrogen oxides in our cities. Reported levels for the larger cities in Australia of carbon monoxide and oxidants are up to four and five times the World Health Organisation 's long term goals. 
In short, motor vehicle related pollution is a problem in the larger cities of Australia. Measures adopted already are expected to about halve carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions in urban areas and arrest the growth of oxides of nitrogen emissions from 1977 to 1982. But we cannot affort to sit back and relax. We have to ensure we keep abreast of developing technology and in-service performance of the 'emissionised' vehicles as well as needs in terms of air quality. Similarly, for most people the purchase of their car is the second largest investment they make, second only to the purchase of the family home. Indeed Australians spend some $ 1200m a year on the purchase of private motor vehicles and a little more on their operation. Clearly this is a field where the consumer should know what to expect when he pays out his money whether it is for a new car, for maintenance or for repairs. The number of complaints we all receive or hear about indicates that many motorists are far from satisfied at the moment. 
So much for the problem. Let me now turn to what has been done to reduce this toll. Road safety is not a party political issue. However, I must say that the record of this Government over the last 2 years is one of vigorous action. The House of Representatives Select- now Standing -Committee on Road Safety and the Expert Group on Road Safety were both re-appointed quickly. We have introduced a program of low cost improvements at locations with poor accident records and an initial $3m was provided in 1973-74. A total of $30m is being provided over the 3-year period of the current roads legislation, which commenced on 1 July last year. 
You will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I previously wrote to members of the House with a request that information on the locations of serious accidents be brought to my attention. I invite honourable members to do so again. The locations in question will again be referred to the relevant State authorities for consideration on their merits, with a view to including them in the traffic improvements program. We have expanded our research and road safety promotion activities to the extent that more than Sim has been allocated for this purpose during 1974-75. We have also taken the first steps to provide a central information service for those working in road safety. Indeed we have now implemented all the major recommendations by the Expert Group in its national review of the road accident situation in Australia. 
Against this background I would like to highlight some of the key elements of this Bill. The Road Safety and Standards Authority will be a statutory body consisting of a  chairman  and two part-time members. As already mentioned the objectives of the Authority are the promotion of road safety, promotion of means for the control of vehicle emissions and consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles. Working closely with the Department of Transport the Authority will seek to do this through improvement programs, formulation of national standards and traffic codes, the certification of vehicles and components, research into all relevant factors, education and publicity campaigns and a comprehensive information service. These functions follow closely those recommended by both the Select Committee and the Expert Group. The Bill also includes a requirement on the Authority to consult appropriate authorities of Australia, the States and Territories, local governing bodies and other interested bodies. This requirement bears special mention. The Authority is not intended as a substitute for what others are doing in the field. It is intended as an addition to a better co-ordinated total effort. In particular it is intended that the Authority should assist the work of the Australian Transport Advisory Council through the provision of technical support and participation in its Standing Committee of Advisers and relevant advisory committees. 
The Authority's staff will be appointed under the Public Service Act. The staff will be representative of a wide range of disciplines needed to undertake detailed investigations into the factors affecting vehicles, roads and the road environment, road user behaviour and the interrelationships between them. To assist the Authority, provision has been made for the appointment of committees. Of particular importance will be the Advisory Committee on Road Safety Research and Information. The role of this Committee will be to advise the Minister on major research projects and to assist the Authority in facilitating communication with the various bodies associated with road safety. Once again, creation of such a committee has been recommended by both the Select Committee and the Expert Group. . 
The Government not only proposes to establish the Authority, it also proposes to provide the Authority with the facilities required to enable it to get on with its most important task. As I announced late last year, facilities estimated to cost more than $10m are to be developed for the Authority near the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. These facilities will include several specialised laboratories and outdoor facilities incorporating a test track, skid pan and associated road network. The vehicle and component testing facilities will permit testing for compliance with all Australian design rules for motor vehicle safety and development of new or upgraded standards. They will also enable development of measures to control the effects on safety and emissions, of deterioration, replacement parts, repairs and modifications. 
The road and traffic management facilities will enable testing of such safety innovations as breakaway' roadside furniture and permit controlled simulation of intersection manoeuvres which cannot be done on a normal road system. These facilities could be made available, on a cost recovery basis, to vehicle and component manufacturers or importers, many of whom do not have access to similar facilities in Australia. The  Chairman  of the Expert Group,  Mr Justice  Meares, summed up the position very well when speaking recently in Albury-Wodonga. He said: 
The Authority, backed by comprehensive test facilities, will be the focal point for a second generation of vigorous, co-ordinated and multi-disciplinary efforts to reduce the tragic toll on our roads. 
It is with pleasure that I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Chairman, the Government accepts the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member of Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  Some of the State governments were concerned that if they did not transfer their railway systems to the Australian Government we would set up road organisations parallel with their operations. That was furthest from our mind. In fact, we were advised- this would interest the honourable member for the Northern Territory (MrCalder) -that if we did not agree to this amendment, the company to which he referred, Co-ord Pty Ltd, would not be permitted to operate its service. The easiest way out of the situation was for us to do what we have done, that is, to accept the amendment. 
One of the things that amused me was the stand taken by the bus operators. I like the honourable member for Gippsland, received a number of telegrams from road operators and bus operators. If I had wanted to put the bus operators out of business- I am talking now in terms of private bus operators- why did I institute an inquiry, which will cost a considerable amount of money, to look into the ways and means of assisting private urban public transport? I believe that the bus operators have read into this Bill something that was never intended. On that basis alone I have no hesitation in accepting the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect of passenger and freight rolling stock provided under Commonwealth Railways program is: 
1 ) 1083 wagons built or ordered since 2 December 1 972. 
and (3) As per attached schedules. 
379. 
In addition, the Australian Government is committed to supply two-thirds of the cost of the following rolling stock under the Urban Public Transport Improvement Program: 
1 ) New South Wales- 106 double deck electric cars. 
Victoria- 300 Suburban electric cars; 100 trams. 
and (3) This rolling stock is for use in Sydney and Melbourne 
The Urban Public Transport Improvement Program was not in operation prior to 2 December 1 972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There is insufficient information to calculate rates for the whole of Australia. The following table has been calculated for Victoria using 1971 data. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In relation to quarantine incinerators installed at airports- 
1 ) The Australian Government construction authority for quarantine incinerators is the Department of Housing and Construction. The Department of Transport has the financial responsibility. Previous to early 1972 the Department of Civil Aviation did provide funds for the construction of incinerators at airports. However, it is now considered that the responsibility for the disposal of such wastes rests with the Department of Health and the generators of the wastes. 
The Department of Health is considering a new incinerator capable of destroying quarantine wastes for Perth Airport. The Department of Transport has given technical assistance in the planning of this unit. The Minister for Health would be in a better position to provide a target date for its completion. 
There is no requirement for quarantine incinerators at Newcastle, Alice Springs and Adelaide Airports. Turning to Darwin, before the disaster caused by Cyclone Tracy a quarantine incinerator was in operation at the airport but the installation did suffer considerable damage. Target dates for the completion of repair work are not available. However, with the temporary cessation of the vast majority of international traffic through this airport, secondary facilities are being used to dispose of the small amount of quarantine wastes generated. 
It seems that it would be more satisfactory for the Department of Health to have the responsibility for the provision and maintenance of quarantine incinerators at airports. 
With regard to seaports, my Department is not the constructing authority for incinerators and questions relating to this area should be directed to my colleague, the Minister for Health. 
-The programs of each of the States for national highways, urban arterial and urban local roads, minor improvements for traffic engineering and road safety- MITERS- and beef roads have all been approved for the year 1974-75. In fact, at the present time the States are preparing programs for 1975-76. Quite a deal of politics has been played in this matter in that some of the States which have been unhappy with the system have been trying to lay the blame on the Australian Government for the allocation of funds under the categories of rural local and rural arterial roads. In actual fact, the States have been completely free to allocate the funds that the Australian Government has paid to them on a pro rata basis in the categories of rural arterial and rural local roads. The States determined the programs, they approved them and they allocated the funds wherever they wanted to allocate them. The Australian Government had no say in it. The Government realised when it brought the scheme in that there would be some difficulty in administration of the Act and therefore, in order to co-operate with the States, we made the concession to them that they would be able to determine their own allocations. 
We have asked the States to give us their programs for rural arterial roads for the year 1 975-76. We have also asked them for programs for rural local roads. The States have said that there are problems involved in this and the Government has suggested to them, in order to get their co-operation and to work with them, that they might give us their methods for disbursing the funds so that we can consider them. Whatever has been done in respect of rural local roads and rural arterial roads has been done with the maximum co-operation on the part of the Australian Government in an endeavour to assist the States so that this new scheme of payments for roads can be introduced in the best way and cause the least amount of confusion. The honourable member for Grey inquired about the position of South Australia. That State this year will receive $ 16.4m for national highways and $ 14.3m in total under the Roads Grants Act. This money is being paid to the States on the basis that, as they spend it, we compensate them for the expenditure. 
For the information of honourable members I present the principles to govern the transfer of the non -metropolitan South Australian railway system to the Australian Government. 
I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the Bill is to re-establish the InterState Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 101 of the Constitution, which states: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
Honourable members will note that the Constitution refers to the trade and commerce provisions and laws made thereunder. However it is not the Government's intention at this time for the Inter-State Commission to operate under these provisions other than in the field of transport. Hence the responsibility for introducing this Bill has been allocated to the Transport portfolio. I need hardly emphasise that transport is a wide and important activity. In 1972-73 it has been estimated that Government and private capital expenditure directly attributed to transport was of the order of $2,700m while current expenditure was approximately $2,200m. Recent figures will be considerably in excess of these amounts. The investment decisions which are made at the present time undoubtedly influence the overall character of personal, private and commercial transport for many decades ahead. 
It is generally recognised that transport is a service function concerned with the efficient movement of people, freight and raw materials. Very few of these movements can, in fact, be completed with the use of only a single mode of transport and hence it is important that there is adequate co-ordination within, and between, the various modes of transport. But the history of transport in Australia is studded with examples of lack of co-ordination at many levels. I will mention 3 examples to illustrate my point. The differences in rail gauges is the most notable and long standing. Another is the differing approaches to road networks in the various regions, which we are endeavouring to rectify through road legislation. Then, again, approaches to vehicle dimensions and axle load limits are not standard. These are all instances of physical differences. There are other administrative and operational differences of equally serious concern. 
Users of transport are often frustrated in attempting to obtain rectification of the problems they encounter. There is no single entity to which they can refer for positive assistance in the investigation of their complaints. Rather, they are faced with trying to obtain satisfaction from operator controlled organisations whose own interests are paramount. Furthermore, a great majority of the transport tasks require the use of more than one mode of transport and the user has a variety of operator organisations to deal with, compounding his difficulties. The Government has decided that these considerations call for the re-establishment of the Inter-State Commission. The deliberations which led to the drafting of the Constitution envisaged the role of the Commission as being complementary to Parliament, the Executive and the judiciary, and the existence of a body of such stature, with wide powers to deal with the interests of all parties involved in or affected by, transport has been a persuasive argument in leading the Government to this decision. (Quorum formed) Apart from one short period between 1913 and 1920, Australia has been without the Commission since Federation. It may well be that this omission is in itself one of the root causes of some of the major distortions which have occurred in the evolution of Australian transport. 
The Inter-State Commission was first appointed in 1913 pursuant to the Inter-State Commission Act 1912. The powers given to the Inter-State Commission included powers of investigation over a very wide range of matters going well beyond matters relating to interstate trade or commerce and power to determine a great variety of disputes, including disputes as to preferences or disadvantages given or made by any State or by any common carrier in contravention of the Act or the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce. The Commission was given wide powers to grant relief to the parties before it and was empowered to grant injunctions. In what is now known as the wheat case- New South Wales v. the Commonwealth ( 1915)-New South Wales appealed to the High Court from a decision of the Inter-State Commission. Section 73 of the Constitution provides for appeals from decisions of the Inter-State Commission on questions of law. The Commission held that the Wheat Acquisition Act 1914 of New South Wales was invalid as contravening section 92 of the Constitution. The High Court, by a majority, held that section 101. of the Constitution did not authorise the establishment of the Inter-State Commission as a court and therefore the provisions of Part V conferring judicial powers upon the Inter-State Commission were invalid. 
The Inter-State Commission continued to exercise some investigatory functions for a limited period after the wheat case. However, by 1920 the appointments of commissioners had terminated by reason of resignation or lapse of time. The Act remained on the statute book until 1950 when it was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1950. 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a paper containing the relevant extracts from the Constitution which relate to the InterState Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Routine inspection at Imperieuse Reef Light on 19 May 1 974 revealed damage to the door on the tower. 
) The cost of repair to the door was $20. 
3 ) The identity of the offenders is not known. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as  follows: 
The matter is continuing to be considered but no firm decisions have yet been made. 
Meat Sale to the U.S.S.R.  (Question No. 2175) 
-I noted an article in one of the newspapers this morning relating to a statement by the Minister for Railways in Western Australia. The article stated: 

 Mr O'Connor said that it was originally intended that the Western Australian Railways would start on one side of the gap and the Commonwealth Railways would start on the other. But the West Australian Railwaymen finished the Bridge before the Commonwealth had organised itself to start. 
I do not know whether that statement was made. Assuming that it is a statement made by the Minister for Railways in Western Australia, I cannot for the life of me understand why Ministers must resort to making untruthful statements in order to try to build up their own egos when the facts are not there. The real position is that after this break occurred - 
Would the honourable member say that again? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Based on advice received by my Department from the Crown Solicitor's office I indicated in my letter of 25 October to the honourable member that the matter (of Noongah fund) 'could fall within the terms of reference of Judge Sweeney's Inquiry'. Obviously this could only be determined after an examination of the facts by the Royal Commission. I further said in answer to a question without notice on 30 October 1974 that as far as I was aware the Noongah' fund had nothing to do with the Inquiry. 
Clearly, that was not an unequivocal statement that the Noongah fund had nothing to do with the Inquiry. The answer I gave on 30 October reflected the fact that I had no direct knowledge of any matters which called for an inquiry into payments into and out of the Noongah fund which was the subject of the honourable member's question without notice on 1 6 October and of my letter to him on 2 5 October. I find nothing inconsistent in the two answers. 
As the honourable member is no doubt aware, Judge Sweeney's Inquiry has heard evidence of a demand made by the Seamen's Union for the crew of the vessel 'Manchester 
Vigour' to be paid Australian rates of pay, but when the crew, by letter to the Union indicated that they did not want the additional payment, the owners were asked to make the payment to the Noongah Memorial Fund. A cheque for $3456 made payable to the Noongah Memorial Fund was handed to the Secretary of the Western Australian Branch of the Seamen's Union on 15 November 1973. That cheque was subsequently paid into the Peace and Progress Fund of the Seamen's Union. 
The reasons for that action having been taken were given in evidence by the Secretary of the Noongah Disaster Committee when she appeared before the Royal Commission on 2 December 1974. At the same time the Secretary of the Noongah Disaster Committee tendered to the Royal Commission all documents of account relating to the Noongah Disaster Fund and asked that if the Commission finds that the Noongah Disaster Committee is not involved in any way, the Commission make that clear so as to erase any doubts that have been created.  Mr Justice  Sweeney indicated at the time that 'there will be a full finding made on it one way or another'. 
-After the way that the Queensland Local Government Association and myself took this Minister apart in Brisbane just recently, for example, the circular letter that was put out by the  President  of the North Queensland Local Government Association which showed the distortion- I know you will not let me say 'lies',  Mr Speaker-  and untruths that were circulated by the Bjelke-Petersen 
Government all of last year and again this year as to the amount of funds that were being provided for roads- I thought the Premier at least would have had enough sense to change his Ministers over. Let us look at the facts. If there is any lay off of labour in Queensland it will be brought about as the result of the policies of the Queensland Government- the QueenslandCountry Party or National Party Government. 
The facts are that in 1973-74 the Australian Government made available $64.74m for roads. In this financial year the States are to receive altogether $77. lm; all told- an increase of $ 12.36m. But in the same period the Queensland Government's own quota for roads has dropped from $37. lm to $36.3m. Our allocation for roads increased by almost $13m and the Queensland Government's allocation dropped by $800,000. So when the Queensland Minister talks about there being a shortage of funds, that is perfectly true- a shortage of Queensland Government funds. Even at the Local Government Conference neither the Minister nor his Commissioner was prepared to advise the aldermen and councillors that were there just how the Queensland Government was allocating its funds. Great emphasis has been placed on the problems of the rural community in Queensland, but let us get down to the facts. For the last 3 years of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement the allocation and the break-up of funds between rural and urban areas were 59 per cent to rural roads and 41 per cent to urban roads. 
-Under the 3 years of operation of our Act, rural roads have been receiving an allocation of 76 per cent. The honourable member for Kennedy can shut up for a minute and drive those camels of Cameron's. The position is that under our proposition 76 per cent of our allocation is going to rural roads, as against 59 per cent under the Act which the Liberal-Country Party Government brought down when last in office. Furthermore, prior to the meeting of the Premiers on 14 February this year, the Prime Minister wrote to all the Premiers and said: 'Now, how much money do you need to take care of inflation, to retain all the men who are at present in employment with your road authorities, and to re-employ those displaced?' The answer that came back from the Premiers was $30m, and that is what they received at the Premiers Conference. Queensland received $6.09m. An amount of $ 1.35m was allocated to local government, but what did the government of Queensland, this people's government, do with it? It retained the $1.35m. Local government received none of it. The Queensland Government used it for its own roads. This is an indication of how it goes on. It endeavours to place the blame on the Australian Government for a shortage of funds in Queensland. It even laid men off on the pretext that we were withholding funds; yet I was able to establish at a meeting of local government authorities in Brisbane that only on 2 occasions had they had to wait for longer than - 
-Don't you like it? 
-The Government rejects the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  The definition of ' goods ' in the Bill includes: 
ships, aircraft and vehicles; 
animals (including fish); 
minerals (including petroleum) and slurry; and 
gas; 
These have been set out specifically because they are some of the things that the Government wants the Commission to investigate. It wants the Commission to investigate the manner in which ships, aircraft and vehicles shall operate. That is the whole crux of the Bill. The Government wants the Commission to investigate the practices applying in the operation of these vessels and the manner in which they are handling the carriage, of freight, passengers and the like. This is part and parcel of what the Bill sets out to do. I repeat that it sets out specifically that these are the matters the Government wants included. Therefore the Government rejects the amendment. 
One of the things which has surprised me about the discussion that has taken place up to date is the concern that the Opposition has expressed for the multi-national corporations, the large corporations, in this country. This is coming through very clearly and loudly here today. The Opposition is concerned that we should not under any circumstances interfere with all the rorts that are under way at the present time. 
Fish are one of the things that can be transported. 
-It might be a red herring. I hope we might carry a few herring, tuna, mullett and fish of that type. What astounds me is that the whole aim of the free enterprise Opposition, which can always find something to be said about free enterprise and the desire for competition, has been to defer this Bill which will provide some true competition and get rid of the means whereby the large forwarders, the large corporations and the other people who, because of the amount of goods they are handling- I use the word 'goods' in its normal sense- and the amount of goods they want to have transported are able to stand over certain operators. In the field of commerce we know that the Trade Practices Act was amended to stop restrictive trade practices. The Inter-State Commission Bill will set out to make sure that the little man is protected. It astounds me that the Opposition should oppose this Bill when the small man is going to be protected by it. 
I think it was the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  who said that the movement of animals- cattle and other stockaround this country could be investigated. Surely this is what the right honourable member would want to see. Farmer Brown can go along to the Inter-State Commission and say: 'I am not satisfied with the freight rates that I am being charged by a certain freight forwarder, by certain road operators, by certain sea transport operators and by railways. I want you to conduct an inquiry into the matter'. The Commission can then have a look at the proposition that has been submitted to it by small Farmer Brown. He is one of the people the Leader of the Country Party is supposed to be protecting and representing in this place, but in reality the right honourable member is the mouthpiece of the oil companies and the multi-national corporations in this country which want increases in crude oil prices. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The Committee is debating the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  to omit the word 'goods' from clause 3 (1) of the Bill. Before the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out that the Inter-State Commission Bill had been introduced to set up the Inter-State Commission so that the people, small businessmen and small companies, could be protected. What astounds me is the attitude of members of the Australian Country Party. They are complaining that the transport of primary produce in some way or another will be hindered and that the matter should not be inquired into. The Government is saying that when goods are to be transported there should be some means whereby the farmer or the grazier- primary producers as a whole- will be in a position to challenge the freight rates that are being charged or challenge the protection that is afforded in one State as against that which applies in another State when primary produce is being transported within a State as part of an interstate or international movement of goods under terms and conditions which render a disadvantage to a farmer, or whoever it might be, in another State. 
It may be that a group in one State is placed at a very great advantage relative to another group. The provisions of this Bill would allow the small man to bring to the attention of the Commission unfair and unreasonable practices. In that situation the Commission would be requested to conduct an inquiry. Arising out of that inquiry one of several things could happen: The inquiry could disclose that there was no discrimination or that unfair preference was not being given to one individual or group as against another individual or group. In such circumstances the Commission would decide not to act. But if it found that there was unreasonable and unfair treatment or assistance being provided it could direct that it cease. That is the objective of this legislation. For the life of me, I cannot understand the Country Party's attitude to this Bill. In particular, I could not understand the attitude of the Leader of the Country Party when he made a strong plea on the matter before the suspension of the sitting and made reference to the fact that animals were to be taken into consideration. This was the point that he made. I repeat myself in concluding my remarks on this point by saying that I thought that he at least would support the points that I have just made. 
The definition of the word 'goods' has been included in the Bill for explanatory purposes to clarify the situation for people who are reading and interpreting this proposed Act. Items are listed as specific items only to ensure that it is clear to people that they do come within the ambit of the legislation. For transport to take place some item has to be transported, whether it be goods or people. It is possible that at times the means of transport will have to be transportedfor example, ships to other locations- and that is why items such as ships, aircraft and vehicles have been specifically mentioned. Definition B, which specifies that animals come within the ambit of the legislation, has been included to ensure that livestock are covered by definition and that goods are not interpreted as referring to inanimate objects only. Fish have been listed for the purpose of clarity because they are not inanimate and some people might find it difficult to interpret the Bill without that clarification. That is why the definition of animals has been spelt out. 
Again, minerals have been listed in the definitions so that the word 'goods' is not interpreted as meaning only processed secondary manufactures or primary products resulting from farming activities. Petroleum has been included in the definition of minerals because it is a liquid and some people might not think it is also a mineral. Slurry is the term used to describe the mixture used when solid matter as carried in suspension in pipelines. Gas has been included in the definitions because at times persons have great difficulty in knowing how to categorise it, because of its nature. By specifying that in definition D it becomes clear that its transportation by means of a pipeline is included within the ambit of the power of the Inter-State Commission. Therefore, we ensure that transportation in all its modes and manifestations is covered by the Bill. 
The Government takes the view that it would be wrong to omit any area of transport from the ambit of the Commission. Honourable members have had a reasonable time to debate this first amendment moved by the Opposition. Therefore, I hope that they might be prepared to argue out the other points within a reasonable period and put the matters to a vote. For the reasons that I have outlined the Government cannot accept the amendment as moved by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
We have heard another speech from the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  in which he used pious comments such as: 'This is one of the most fundamental Bills'. Let us have a look at what went on here today during the debate on the second reading of the Inter-State Commission Bill. If ever I saw an ill-prepared and ill-informed presentation of an argument from the Opposition, today was the day. What did the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who led the debate for the Opposition have to contribute? If we take out of his speech the quotations from my second reading speech and the various clauses of the Bill which he read, he had nothing whatever to contribute. He had the right to speak in this place for half and hour. But what time did he take? He took 15 minutes. That indicated the extent to which the honourable member for Gippsland wanted to contribute to the Bill. If he really had anything to contribute to the Bill why did he not take the half hour that he is entitled to take as the honourable member leading on behalf of the Opposition? The reason why he did not was that he had nothing to contribute. Let us look at the amendment which was moved. It states: 
That the Bill be withdrawn and not proceeded with until after presentation of the Budget to enable the principles of the Bill to be more fully investigated. 
How much more time does the Opposition want to investigate it? There has been an agreement that the Bill was to be brought in one week and debated the next week. But what about these honourable members who have to be here all the time? What did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say when the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  wanted to go to Darwin to a most important meeting in the interests of the people of the Northern Territory? The Minister was not granted a pair. But that very day the honourable member for Gippsland went trotting off to Victoria to an Australian Country Party conference. Where is the Leader of the Opposition now? What about those pious remarks that we are getting paid to be in this place? Last Thursday why was not the honourable member for Gippsland here all day? 
As far as the Leader of the Opposition is concerned, we are starting to see the humbug on his part and the phony policies which he has been outlining in relation to what members of the Opposition will do. He has said that they will be here every day and that the Government members should be here every day. That suits me. But let us have this arrangement on both sides of the House and not have honourable members sneaking off to Country Party meetings, not putting in their time to examine the Bill in detail. They have not on one occasion asked that officers of my Department be made available to them to explain the Bill. On previous occasions in this place when there have been Bills which the honourable member for Gippsland could not understand he has come to me and asked whether officers of my Department could be made available to explain the Bills to him and to members of his committee. That was something with which I agreed. I believe it should be the role of the Government to make available all the experts at its disposal to help honourable members on both sides of the House. The Opposition at no time had any intention of allowing this Bill to go through. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  stated, all it is wanting to do is stonewall. I spoke to the honourable member for Gippsland about what he was going to do in relation to his 14 amendments and he replied: 'Divide and oppose all of them'. That means that there will be 14 divisions on the motion that the question be now put and a division on each of the 1 4 amendments moved. How much longer do honourable members opposite think this House will sit here dealing with phoney amendments which the Opposition puts up, amendments which honourable members opposite do not believe in? The whole set-up of the Opposition is a phoney. 
What the Government is setting out to do by this legislation is to protect the little people in this country. We have heard from the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  and honourable members should bear in mind all the money that was put into his Party's campaign funds for the last elections by the multinationals, the oil companies and the like- about how there should be a 40 per cent increase in fuel charges, despite the effect that that would have on prices for the community as a whole. This is how honourable members opposite protect the little people. All they are interested in are the large multi-national companies. They are out to protect them once again. This Bill sets out to make sure that the multi-nationals and the large companies are not in a position whereby they can crush the small private businessman and the small company. The Opposition is trying to protect its friends, the contributors to its election campaign funds. These are the people it is interested in, not the small people. Opposition members come in here talking about what the Country Party will do for the farmer and the grazier - 
Let us be clear on one thing- that this Parliament has clear power over trade and commerce in the States. That power exists not only with regard to transport directly constituting part of such trade and commerce, but also includes within its sweep the transport of goods which are the subject of such trade or commerce. The purpose of this definition is to take full advantage of this power. What we are talking about at the moment and what the Opposition is trying to do is to delete the words 'or transport of goods that are the subject of such trade or commerce'. What these words mean is that the way the BUI is framed at present, it will be possible for the Commission to carry out an investigation into the movement of goods from the factory to the freight terminal, from the freight terminal probably to rail transport, enabling the investigation of that transport .section, and then from the rail terminal at the other end to the freight forwarders depot and from that point onwards. 
If the Opposition's amendment were agreed to the result would be that there would be a gap in the investigation of certain sections of the transport of goods. The Commission would be able to investigate so much of it, but other sections would be completely free of investigationfor example, from the factory to the freight forwarders terminal and from the terminal to the mode of transport. All of that and the warehousing are part and parcel of the transport of goods from point A to point B. If the Commission is in a position to investigate the main journey, that is OK. If one freight operator is being dealt with, he can carry on that portion of the journey according to the requirments of the Commission. It is then possible to load the whole operation in one of the other moves which are made- admittedly most of them are of short duration. The freight rate can be loaded in those operations and then the Commission has no rights of investigation, no power under the amendment proposed by the Opposition to issue any direction as to unfair and unreasonable competition. We are trying to eliminate the unfair and unreasonable conditions which are built into transport today in the trade and commerce fields. This is the whole set-up of this Bill. This is why I cannot make out- I keep on repeating this because it is important and something that I cannot understand- why this great bastion of free enterpise which calls itself the Oppostion the Liberal and Country Parties, is prepared to go out on a limb to protect the large combines which exist in this country. These large combines are able to screw and able to manoeuvre prices and conditions to the disadvantage of the small businessman. 
If Opposition members are opposed to helping the small businessman, the private individual, whether he be in business or a person who is affected by the prices let them go on the way they are going at the present time; let them go on with the humbug of wasting time. We had an example earlier tonight where a division was called by the Opposition when the Leader of the House was prepared to let the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  speak on the matter. But no, honourable members opposite insisted on a division. This just shows the hypocrisy on the part of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite claim they want more time to examine the Bill. The real fact of the matter is that they have not done their homework and they do not know what the Bill is all about. They have not sat down and done their work on it. That is why they want to defer the Bill. The Government rejects the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  because all it does is create holes in the legislation with regard to the right of the Commission to investigate all the movements of goods from point A to point B. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 

 - Mr Chairman - 
-The Government rejects the Opposition's amendments- the remaining 10 of them. I would like to give some indication of the reasons in the time available to me. I refer firstly to Amendment No. 3, which concerns the deletion of the reference to overseas transport in clause 3. Interstate trade is just as important as overseas trade and vice versa. Therefore, to delete any reference to overseas transport is in my opinion to take away one of the important responsibilities of the Inter-State Commission because it would not then be in a position to investigate matters of importance to this country and ensure that our overseas trade is not being interfered with in any way by private individuals or for that matter by large companies for their own personal gain. That is what we are setting out to try to do. I turn to amendment No. 4 as moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  The effect of acceptance of that amendment would be to delete a very useful clarification of the Bill. The Government is of the view that all the aspects of the transport operations are relevant to the operations of the Commission. So we feel that the deletion of this portion of the operations would destroy the impact of the Bill. 
I know that the honourable member for Gippsland would like me to comment on the proposed new clause 5a, which relates to the 2- airline agreement. Once again we see influence being exerted upon certain honourable members opposite. Whenever one mentions airlines one can rest assured that the Airlines Agreement Act will come into it and that the Opposition will come post-haste to the defence and support of certain people. We have already seen the airline agreement being extended for another 5 years under most favourable terms and conditions. It was hammered through this Parliament in the dying hours of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The then Prime Ministerthe right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)-  almost had a resignation on his hands from his then Minister for Civil Aviation because of the way in which he hammered it through his Cabinet. 
The right honourable member is well known for his performances,  Mr Chairman.  As far as the airlines are concerned, why should the Commission be in a position in which it can investigate road operations, rail operations and sea traffic but cannot interfere in or investigate any of the sections of air transport? I am not contesting whether the 2- airline agreement is legal. This Parliament is the master of its own destiny. Even though the right honourable member for Lowe tied up this Parliament for a considerable time and, in doing so, wrote into the Airlines Agreement Act many unfair things as far as other people are concerned, there is no reason in the world why the Commission should not be free to investigate(Quorum formed.) 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Nixon's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of my press releases are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery by publication in the Australian Government Digest and by mail from my Department. 
Press releases are distributed to all Members and Senators, media organisations, Government Departments, Embassies, political party organisations, libraries and individuals and organisations from whom requests are received. 
) About 1000 copies of each release are circulated. 
and (5) The costs of producing and distributing Ministerial press releases and numbers of staff involved are not readily available as reproduction units are engaged continually on producing a variety of printed material. The costs attributable to the press releases have not been separately maintained. 
-I am not aware of any lay-off of labour by the Crookwell Shire Council, but I accept the assurance from the honourable member that there has been a lay-off of labour in that shire. 
-I have seen reports that the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  will write to the Prime Minister. It would appear that that is to be a reply to a letter which the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier back on 1 1 December 1974. So apparently the State has finally got around to looking at the matter. One of the interesting points about the Prime Minister's letter was an indication to the New South Wales Government that we were taking action to get the Australian domestic airlines to use larger aircraft; that we were negotiating with international air operators to bypass Sydney and operate into Melbourne; and, furthermore, that we were trying to get the domestic operators to bypass Sydney by using direct flights between some of the capital cities. This was being sought to reduce the noise level and the frequency of aircraft flying around and into Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, to improve services and also to try to get some sense out of the New South Wales Government. I say this because every time that an Australian government, whether it be this Government or former governments, made any attempt to overcome the airport problems of Sydney the New South Wales Government would bring to light all sorts of propositions. Whatever proposition was put up from this Parliament, this Government or former Australian governments, the New South Wales Government set out to ridicule it. 
-A11 right, Galston has been removed from the list for consideration. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a paper entitled 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railway System to the Australian Government'. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments arise from a suggestion made during the debate on the Bill in this House last week. The original wording of sub-clause 15 (1) follows that of the corresponding provisions in the Acts relating to other statutory authorities within the Transport portfolio. During the debate in this House the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  asked me to consider amendments to sub-clause 15(1) to require disclosure of an interest by a member when that member is a director of the company involved, even though his interest is in common with 25 or more other persons. Such an amendment would bring the wording more into line with the corresponding provisions in the Children's Commission Bill. I felt there was some merit in the honourable member's suggestion, and indeed I felt there would be merit in amending sub-clause 15 (1) to bring it fully into line with the wider provisions of the Children's Commission Bill, which refer to a matter rather than to a contract. These amendments were sponsored in the Senate by the Government and I commend them to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
TAA air fares were reduced by IK per cent on 24 November (not 214 per cent as stated in the question) and readjusted by an increase of 1 per cent on 28 November, thus the net effect was a fare reduction of  Vi  per cent. Trading was not profitable up to that time due mainly to industrial action and fuel shortages during August and November which restricted flying operations and caused some unproductive flying. In addition, traffic growth and revenues were not as high as predicted, whilst on the cost side industrial pressures and rising prices resulted in escalations of costs higher than expected. However, traffic growth since December has been better than forecast with the result that operations have been profitable. 
As I have said, TAA has traded profitably since December. From my other remarks you will gather that the earlier loss situation was caused by factors other than the level of the fares. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1972 I present the twenty-ninth annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the reports of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
Pursuant to clause 11 of the 1972 Airlines Agreement, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has submitted to me financial information in respect of that part of the company and its subsidairies relating to the operation of air services during the year ended 29 June 1974. 1 now present this financial information which has been compiled from the audited accounts of the company and has been certified as to correctness by 2 directors. 
-The New South Wales Government Transport Commission asked surveyors from my Department to carry out an inspection of the ferry. The Tasmanian Transport Commission likewise asked for a survey to be carried out to determine the seaworthiness of the ferry and for the issue of a certificate for insurance purposes. The departmental surveyors carried out the survey but were not prepared to issue a certificate for insurance purposes. The ferry was slipped and after a brief inspection had been made they asked that a number of things be done before it left Sydney for tow to Hobart. These included the provision of additional buoyancy below deck, boxing up of the vessel beneath the passenger deck, strengthening of the bow, extra caulking above the copper sheeting, bracing of the deck houses and closure of appliances. Those requirements were laid down on the condition that it was to be an unmanned tow and in the knowledge that when the ferry arrived in Hobart it would be slipped and any necessary work carried out. I understand that a representative of the Tasmanian Government inspected the ferry whilst it was in the water after it had been unslipped in Sydney. My departmental people were asked to do certain specific things which I have just indicated to the honourable member. They were not required to give an opinion as to the condition of the ferry, whether it was suitable or unsuitable, or what its general condition was. All they were asked to do was to give an opinion as to whether it was suitable for towing to Hobart. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with the Railways (Tasmania) Bill 1975 which I shall present shortly, represents the first major step towards the creation of a truly national railway system. The present Australian Government is not claiming originality for this program. Quite clearly, the need for a unified railway was in the minds of Australia's founding fathers in 1897 when they incorporated into the Australian Constitution Section 51 (xxxiii), which gave to the Australian Parliament power with respect to: 
The acquisition, with the consent of a State, of any railways of the State on terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the State '. 
By the turn of the century, the statesmen of the then colonial governments were only too aware of the problems that had come about because of the separate development of the railway systems; for by 1897 railways in eastern Australia had reached colonial borders and the effects of probably the greatest tragedy in Australia's transport history were being felt- the lack of a uniform rail gauge. 
The transfer of the State railways to the Australian Government has been portrayed by the Opposition as a centralist and socialist measure. I doubt if men of the political character of Barton, Griffith, Kingston and Deakin could be described as socialist or centralist as they gave to Australia a federal Constitution. Yet they were practical men who saw the need for the coordinated development of Australia's transport system and incorporated in the Constitution, provisions which would enable the establishment of the Interstate Commission and a national railway system. Regrettably Australia has had to wait for a Government with a truly national approach to transport problems before the vision of the framers of the Constitution could commence to be realised. 
The division of responsibility for Australia's railways among the 6 States and the Australian Government has led to dis-economies such as duplication of facilities and administration; inefficient operating procedures; poor utilisation of available resources; limited standardisation of equipment; and the lack of a uniform approach to railway policy. In recent decades, the increasing need for new capital investment in railways and the inability or reluctance of State Governments to meet this need has magnified the difficulties resulting from this diversity of interests and approaches. The fruits of the haphazard development of our railways are now all too apparent. Each system has its own design staff, with highly skilled personnel carrying out unnecessarily duplicated functions; on standard gauge lines alone, there are more than 9 different designs of car-carrying wagons. (Quorum formed) 
If one extends this to the other classes of wagons, one begins to understand why rolling stock manufacturers have headaches in trying to rationalise their construction programs; changing train crews and remarshalling trains at State borders wastes both time and resources; signalling systems differ from State to State; even simple but vital safety devices, such as handbrakes are located in different places on freight wagons in different systems, and shunter's steps on wagons from different systems vary in height, design and situation on the vehicle. To the layman looking at the 2 consists of the Southern Aurora, which are jointly owned by New South Wales and Victoria, they seem to be identical trains. Little does he know that each consist has differently designed bogies; one design acceptable to New South Wales and the other acceptable to Victoria. There is even a case where 2 adjoining State railway systems of the same gauge have the automatic staff exchangers on their engines on different sides, thus effectively precluding the through operation of these engines on express passenger and freight trains on either side of their common border. (Quorum formed) 
It is no wonder then that the railways were basically incapable of coping with increased capital costs and the spirited- and mainly united and co-ordinated- competition provided by the road hauliers and freight forwarders. As a result freight has been diverted to inadequate highways with consequent economic and social costs to the community as a whole, in the form of higher road maintenance costs and the human misery and personal financial burden road accidents bring. But the road hauliers could not be blamed for seizing a commercial opportunity. The freight had to be moved, and the railways could not do the job, because they did not have the wagon capacity. This Government was quick to react to this problem and has introduced a scheme under which Commonwealth Railways will purchase over 1300 wagons for intersystem use, which will be available for lease to the States. Additional purchases of wagons will be decided in the light of future needs. 
The Government is committed to the upgrading of Australia's railways. It has commenced the building of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railwaya line only 70 kilometres shorter than the present line between Melbourne and Sydney. It has passed the necessary legislation to build a standard gauge railway between Adelaide and Crystal Brook which, when completed, will mean that all mainland capital cities will have a standard gauge connection. In addition, through the urban transport program the Government has contributed substantially to the modernisation of State urban railways in such fields as track duplication, improved signalling, and passenger rolling stock. 
State railways are becoming an increasingly heavy burden to State Treasuries. In fact, in 1 973-74 State railway systems collectively lost an estimated $306m and, in general, State railway deficits are increasing faster than the increase in State revenue. It is not surprising, therefore, that  Sir Henry  Bolte and  Sir Robert  Askin offered their States' railways to the then Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  It was left to the present Government to recognise the need for radical changes in Australia's transport policy -in particular a national approach to the role of the railways- and to do something about it. Accordingly - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Ring the bells. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present the Railways (Tasmania) Bill 1975 which is to approve the Agreement for the transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways to the Australian Government. The Agreement is based on the 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railway System to the Australian Government' which were tabled in the Australian Parliament on 23 April 1975 and in the Tasmanian Parliament on 1 May 1975. 1 have already outlined in my speech on the Railways (South Australia) Bill the reasons behind the Government's rail transfer program, and the Agreement contained in the present Bill is basically along similar lines to the South Aus.tralian Agreement. I am having circulated to honourable members explanatory notes to assist them in consideration of this Bill. 
The Agreement which is embodied in the Schedule to the Bill provides for an interim period commencing on 1 July when the Aus.tralian Government accepts financial responsi.bility for the Tasmanian Railways and has the assets of the railways vested in it. The interim period will terminate with the transfer of the raUway staff to the Australian National Railways Commission. During this period the Tasmanian Transport Commission will administer the raUway on behalf of the Australian National Railways, but subject to the direction and control of the ANR. The Agreement also provides for the Australian National Railways to operate ancillary services in Tasmania and extend its railways where necessary. Provision is also made for the continuation of concessions presently available on the railways if the State so requests, provided the State meets the same proportion of their cost as it provided before the transfer. In the case of a dispute arising between the Australian and Tasmanian Governments on payments for concessions and cessation of services on the railway, provision has been made for settlement by arbitration. 
However, there are a number of provisions in the Bill which are directly related to Tasmania's circumstances. Because of the importance of sea trade to Tasmania and the Government's declared intention to see greater co-ordination between the ANR and the Australian National Line, provision has been made for Tasmanian nominees to join both the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Railways Commission. Both these appointments will be subject to the approval of the Minister for Transport and are provided for in clause 9 of the Agreement. At present the Tasmanian Transport Commission operates the Precision Tool Annexe at Launceston. Although its buildings are situated on railway land the Annexe is not part of the railway's operations. Consequently, it has been decided that the Annexe will remain with the Tasmanian Government. Clause 19 provides for this and for the eventual removal of the Annexe from railway land, possibly within 10 years. 
Obviously the financial aspects of the transfer Agreement with Tasmania differ from those agreed to with South Australia as the Tasmanian railways are much smaller. The number of railway employees to be transferred to ANR employment are correspondingly fewer. South Australia as distinct from Tasmania is a 'claimant State' and the debt structures of the 2 railways differ considerably. The financial aspects of the Tasmanian Agreement are dealt with in clauses 14, 15, 16 and 17. Clause 14 provides for a payment to Tasmania of $5m in consideration for land, minerals and other assets when both the Australian and Tasmanian parliaments ratify the necessary legislation to approve the Agreement. (Quorum formed) Clause 15 provides for the taking over by the Australian Government of a specified portion of the railways debt. Clause 16 refers to the interim period, during which any losses on the railways will be borne by the Australian Commission and any profits will be paid to the Australian Commission. Clause 17 is intended to ensure continuity of superannuation to any transferred employees. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
-I am aware of the change in time-tables in the Melbourne urban transport system. I am also aware of similar changes that have taken place in New South Wales. As a result of these changes, there has been great confusion and many problems have arisen. We realise this. The Australian Government realises that there is a great need to assist the States. For the first time in the history of this country an Australian government has been prepared to pour very substantial sums of money into all the State urban transport systems with the idea of building them up. All told, we have a commitment for works programs totalling $207m which have already been approved. The Australian Government will be making a contribution of $ 138m. These programs started last year and we have made another allocation for the 1974-75 financial year. I hope that these programs will continue to be improved by the introduction of new carriages. As the honourable member is aware, we have been working on the development of a standard passenger train. We want to get the best technology that is available to us from throughout the world and apply it to Australian rolling stock. 
The same comment can be made about buses. We have the ludicrous situation in which hardly 2 States in Australia have identical buses. The manufacturers of buses have complained to me that it is costing a lot more money to manufacture buses because they have to meet the requirements of the different States. We have been working on this matter and we are starting to get results from what we are doing to assist the States. Unfortunately, the States have got into this mix with their time-tabling. Yesterday in New South Wales there was a substantial increase of some 20 per cent in urban passenger train fares. All this will do will be to drive more people away from these services and put them back into their cars, which will then set up a demand for expressways and freeways and result in the tearing down of houses and the pinching of parks and the like. The honourable member asked what has been done in Victoria. In that State already programs to the value of $60.98m have been approved, of which the Australian Government's contribution will be $40.66m. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Railways (Tasmania) Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I am aware of the build-up in freight in northern Tasmanian ports. I have had discussions with Australian National Line officials about it. They have positioned the 'Lysaght Enterprise' on that route for the time being in order to try to lift the load, to get it out of the way. As the honourable member knows, this backlog has been brought about by a series of maritime disputes. The last one, which has caused quite a deal of trouble and havoc with regard to a build-up of cargo, concerns the terminal superintendents, who have been working restricted hours. The result is that ships have been sailing light loaded and a build-up of freight has taken place. Honourable members will be interested to know that disputes- and so many of them frivolous disputes- in the maritime and associated industries, have cost the Australian maritime industry about $ 10m so far this year. Unfortunately Tasmania is one of the States that is so vulnerable to this type of action. The honourable member asked me whether I would use my good offices with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have already been in touch with  Mr Souter's  office drawing his attention to the agreement which the ACTU entered into some time ago. I have asked him to take this matter up with the maritime unions with a view to them giving an exemption to Tasmania so that we can get rid of this back-log and ensure that the movement of goods out of that island can take place. 
-I have seen the half page advertisements by the Australian Automobile Association questioning the policies of the Government on road construction and facilities. The Government is aware of the state of roads, and that is the reason why in the road legislation last year we increased the allocation from $868m, which was the amount that had been allocated over the previous 3 years under the Commonwealth Aid Roads scheme, to $ 1,126m for the first 3 years of the present road legislation. At the Premiers Conference in February this year the Prime Minister and the Government agreed to increase the Government's allocation to the States by $30m to take care of inflation. That was the amount that the States had asked for. The Prime Minister wrote to various Premiers and asked them how much was required so that the State authorities could re-employ all the people who had been displaced. The amount asked for was $30m, and that is what was given. I think the States were highly delighted. I notice there was very little criticism in what they had to say about the matter. 
Spending the proceeds of petrol tax on roads is a matter that goes back as far as 1959 when the then Treasurer, in reply to a question which I directed to him, indicated that there was no longer a nexus between petrol tax and the amount of money which was being made available to the States. In 1965 I also directed a question to the then Treasurer, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, who said that it was the prerogative of the Government of the day to use petrol tax collections for whatever purpose it wanted to use them and that they were not exclusively for roads. This is more or less the policy of the present Government and the past Government. 
One thing I notice about the advertisements of the Australian Automobile Association is that none of them makes any mention of the fact that the New South Wales Government, for example, has a tax on petrol which is going to return it about $100m a year. Why does the Association not start putting some pressure on the New South Wales Government to do something about roads? I will give just 2 examples of the amount of money being allocated by the States for roads. In New South Wales last year the State Government provided $124m for roads. This year it increased the allocation to the magnificent sum of $ 124.6m, whereas the Australian Government increased its allocation to New South Wales by some $18m. If the New South Wales Government had increased its allocation by the same percentage another $22,500,000 would have been available for roads in New South Wales this year. In Queensland the State Government actually reduced its allocation by $600,000. At the same time the Australian Government increased its allocation to Queensland by some $12m. When the Australian Automobile Association is wasting so much money on advertising to make an attack on this Government I sincerely question the political integrity of the organisation and wonder whether its action is not just part of a Liberal Party campaign. 
-I am always reluctant to support any increases in taxation. In regard to the number of people who are being unjured today on our roads, I am hopeful that the Government's legislation in regard to compensation will fully cater for that situation. Unfortunately, the Australian Automobile Association is so shut in in its thinking that all it can see is roads. If the Association had its way, this country would have nothing but roads. There would be no forms of public transport. Motor vehicles would be the only way by which the Australian people would be able to move around and we would have the problems that have been referred to by the honourable member for Robertson who is the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety which is doing such excellent work in this area. It becomes so apparent that all that we do with roads is to create the opportunity for more deaths. 
A similar situation applies in regard to pollution. We know that from time to time in Sydney and Melbourne the levels of carbon monoxide and other forms of pollution in the air have been far in excess of the levels recommended by the World Health Organisation. This Government is not a government committed to roads; it is a government committed to providing a transport system in the interests of the people as a whole and in the cheapest possible manner. That is why it has put so much money into assisting the States. As I said in reply to a question yesterday, the Government has already approved a program for some $207m to upgrade urban public transport. This Government will be responsible for $ 138m of that amount. It will continue to assist transport in that way and so help to reduce the need to build expressways and freeways, which the Australian Automobile Association would have it do. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Detailed information on research grants in each of the past three financial years is set out below: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Many of the staff in my Department and in Authorities under my control are engaged from time to time on work which might be classified generally as 'research and development'. However, interpreting this expression as it is normally used to cover applied research, the following details are relevant: 
130. 
(a) Air Transport Group, Department of Transport -of 68 persons employed within this Group, the majority are based in Melbourne. However, there are several employed in each of the mainland State capital cities. 
Surface Transport Group, Department of Transport 
Bureau of Transport Economics 33 are employed in Canberra, 8 in Melbourne and 8 in Sydney. 
Road Transport Branch Land Transport Policy Division 9 are employed in Melbourne. 
Australian Shipping Commission- 4 are employed at the Commission's head office in South Melbourne. 
(a) Air Transport Group, Department of Transport 
Aviation Medicineassembly of a data bank of occupant injuries in aircraft accidents. 
Airports Developmentairport engineering research and development. 
Airways Engineeringstudies in advanced techniques; formulation of concepts for new types of air route and airways facilities; study and analysis of new overseas concepts for possible application in Australia; design, test and evaluation of equipment of systems to a stage where feasibility can be demonstrated; provision and servicing of laboratory facilities for the scientific study of unique investigation and measurement problems. 
Air Safetyinvestigation of aircraft accidents in order to develop preventive or remedial measures. 
Surface Transport Group, Department of Transport 
Transport Economicsresearch programs to assist in the formulation of Australian Government policy concerning reduction of transport costs; improvement of transport efficiency; co-ordination of transport systems; rationalised planning of future transport facilities. 
The foregoing involves the evaluation of the nature, capacity and adequacy of existing transport systems; investigation of the cost structure of individual systems and their methods of rate and fare setting; the effects of regulations on transportation and, in the long term, an assessment of the nature and extent of the transport task. Objective appraisals from time to time of proposed transport projects. 
Road Safetyresearch studies related to road safety. 
Australian Shipping Commission- market research; planning for new shipping lines and trades; consideration of economic prospects and costing. 
Total expenditure per annum is in the vicinity of $3.9m. 
(a) Air Transport Group, Department of Transport 
Aviation MedicineDirector of Aviation Medicine. 
Airports DevelopmentSenior Assistant Secretary (Airports Development). 
Airways Engineering- 
The nature of research and development plans and programs in this area is undertaken in accordance with Air Navigation Regulations, known Departmental policy and Australia's commitment to the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and is approved at the appropriate levels, (iv) Air Safety- 
The authority for this activity is derived from the Air Navigation Regulations and the extent of the activity is controlled by the Secretary, Department of Transport, acting through his delegate the Assistant Secretary (Air Safety Investigation). 
Surface Transport Group, Department of Transport 
Transport EconomicsResearch and development work in this sphere is carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics and originates from three sources, viz: direct reference by myself; references from myself arising from decisions of the Australian Transport Advisory Council; requirements of a general nature to provide inputs to specific studies (controlled by the Director, Bureau of Transport Economics). 
Road Safety- 
The nature of the programs or projects in this area is decided by myself and my Department, taking into account the recommendations of the Expert Group on Road Safety, and having regard to requests which emanate from the Australian Transport Advisory Council and its advisory committees. 
Australian Shipping Commission- The work undertaken is decided by the General Manager or the Assistant General Manager of the Australian National Line. 
Save the Regent Theatre Committee (Question No. 896) 
-The answer to the right honourable member's questions is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) Detailed information is set out in the accompanying Table. 
As already stated by the Prime Minister, the Australian Government has taken a leading role in preparedness for civil emergencies, e.g., by the establishment of a Natural Disasters Organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no countries with which Australia is presently negotiating new Air Services Agreements. 
Since 2 December 1972 Air Services Agreements have been initialled with Fiji and Burma and an Agreement has been signed with Yugoslavia. These Agreements have not yet entered into force because this is dependent upon their ratification by the Contracting Parties. An Agreement between Australia and Malaysia came into force in January 1 973, but was initialled before December 1 972. 
Each of the above Agreements will allow Qantas, as the Australian designated airline, the advantage of transit and traffic rights to, from and over the other country party to the Agreement along the specified route concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, and 1 refer you to the general comments made recently by the Prime Minister on your series of questions. 
Yes. 
No. 
These specific noise considerations were not reproduced in report form but were only recorded on various internal minutes and as such the data were not in a form suitable for public release. However, there is no question of secrecy involved and I am quite willing, if the honourable member so desires, to provide whatever information we have on this matter to him or, for that matter, to any other person who requests it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, and I refer you to the general comments made recently by the Prime Minister on your series of questions. 
Yes. I presume the report was one made in August/ September 1970, by an interdepartmental committee exploring the need for and possible sites of a second airport for Sydney. The then Liberal/Country Party Government belatedly acted on the interdepartmental committee's recommendation to establish a joint committee of Australian and N.S.W. Government officials to look at the question. 
No. .(4) When, in 1973, 1 reviewed the situation with the outdated report of the interdepartmental committee, I saw no point in publishing it, as the Australian/N.S.W. Joint Committee was by then undertaking a completely new and more extensive study of potential sites for a second airport for Sydney. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) Details of vessels completed in Australian yards between 2 December 1972 and 14 April 1975 for which Australian Government subsidy assistance was g ranted, or for which construction was arranged through the S hipbuilding Division of the Australian Department of Transport, are provided in Table A. Details are also provided of completions of ship conversion projects for which subsidy assistance has been given. All vessels were constructed for use in Australian coastal and inland waters. Reliable data on other vessels constructed in Australian shipyards is not available. (5), (6), (7) and (8) Details of the vessels on order or under construction at Australian shipyards as at 14 April 1975 for which subsidy assistance has been sought, and vessels whose construction has been arranged through the Shipbuilding Division of the Australian Department of Transport are provided in Table B. Reliable data on other vessels on order or under construction in Australia shipyards is not available. 
Details of vessels completed in Australian yards during the comparable proceeding period to that shown in Table A for which Australian Government subsidy assistance was granted, or for which construction was arranged through the Shipbuilding Division of the Australian Department of Transport, are provided in Table C. Details of vessels on order or under construction in Australian shipyards as at 2 December 1972 are provided in Table D and may be compared with information in Table B. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See the answer to ( 1 ). 
No. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Currently the Bureau of Transport Economics is undertaking a study considering Fremantle, Adelaide and Melbourne as possible terminal ports in a land-bridge concept of cargo handling. 
If the right honourable member is referring to the container terminal, the South Australian Government has already made its decision and is already constructing a modern terminal for the use of container shipping. 
Education: Grants to independent Schools (Question No. 1773) 

 - Mr Speaker, for the last month - 
We have just had the sincerity of the Opposition shown in its refusal to allow tins debate to continue by moving that the question be put. If we had attempted to move that the question be put, Opposition members would have been screaming blue murder. However, on this occasion they had had enough of the debate. It has become obvious during the debate this day that the Opposition's unsubstantiated questions have been dealt with, first by the Prime Minister, then by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  and then by the member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who have shown conclusively that not one ounce of proof or truth has been brought to the attention of the Parliament by the Opposition today. In fact, all that the Opposition has relied on during the past month has been Press releases, statements and articles that have allegedly been prepared. 
Today there has been talk about a sum of $8m in sterling having exchanged hands. We have heard the member for Lalor state today that a member of his staff was offered amounts beginning at $3,000 and ending at $15,000. In making statements truthful or untruthful the newspapers were not concerned with the facts. Despite all the rubbishing and maligning of people that has taken place today and over the past month, not one ounce of proof has been brought forward. As the Prime Minister said, as reported in the Press last Monday, when he gave notice of calling this meeting of Parliament it was up to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to back up or shut up. It is fairly obvious to everyone here this evening that the Leader has not been able to bring forward any proof whatsoever of any impropriety on the part of anyone. 
The facts are that if the Opposition wants royal commissions or judicial inquiries it has to establish a  prima facie  case to start with to show that there is justification for holding such a judicial inquiry or royal commission. Where have members opposite produced proof? Members should look at the credibility of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  as revealed in the statutory declaration of  Mr Nagy  which was tabled by the member of Lalor this afternoon. In it  Mr Nagy  states that  Mr Harris  said to him that Cairns was finished and that the Government was finished, but that  Mr Lynch  had said that he would take up the loan when he became the Treasurer. Let us look at the facts of this matter. I have referred to a statutory declaration of one of the men who has been involved in these negotiations with the Treasurer or the Minister for Minerals and Energy, whatever the case may be. Let members opposite produce facts and figures about just what complaint they have. 
In any case, let us consider the past record of the Liberal and Country Parties when they were in government in this place. I realise it will not do members opposite much good if we look too closely at that. For example, let us consider what the former Leader of the Country Party  (Sir John McEwen)  said in his second reading speech on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill on 5 May 1970: 
That there are great resources of capital overseas willing for investment in Australia either as equity or fixed term lending does not have to be demonstrated. The facts of capital inflow speak for themselves. If we could get more capital from overseas in non-equity form, carrying a terminating liability for income payments abroad, our balance of payments would be the stronger and our industries less dominated from overseas. 
That is what the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the former Treasurer were interested in. They were interested in capital that could be terminated. They were taking the line that  Sir John  McEwen took in this Parliament on 5 May 1 970. Where have honourable members opposite changed their ground? They want still to be in the position where they can sell out a bit of the farm, as  Sir John  McEwen once mentioned. Honourable members opposite want to sell a bit of the farm each way to continue to exist. That is the way they want it. That is the way that they want it for their rich friends, just as the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is continually trying to get the price of oil increased. What for? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Shipbuilding Industry has the capacity to build ships up to 92 000 deadweight tonnes. Only four ships beyond this size have been temporarily imported to Australia. 
Any decision to extend existing facilities to build vessels beyond 92 000 deadweight tonnes rests initially with Australian Shipyard Management. 
To date no Australian shipbuilder has notified the Government of its intention to build ships beyond 92 000 deadweight tonnes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1969-70 there were 216 457 total movements at Bankstown. 
In 1970-71 there were 227 335. 
In 1971-72 there were 273 807. 
In 1972-73 there were 256 247. 
In 1973-74 there were 285 461. 
Records are not normally kept on individual runway use, but it is estimated that until 1972 about 30 per cent of all movements were using runway 05/23. Thereafter for various reasons, including an embargo on 05/23 being used above 10 knots cross wind, the use of 05/23 about halved to an estimated 1 5 per cent of the total. 
Aircraft movement area maintenance costs at Bankstown were: 
In 1969-70, $55,982. 
In 1970-71, $50,164. 
In 1971-72, $49,627. 
In 1972-73, $64,788. 
In 1973-74, $73,900. 
Maintenance is not costed on a runway basis, but when the 05/23 runway was looking after about 15 per cent of total movements it was estimated to require about 40 per cent of the total maintenance effort. 
-It is perfectly true that the William Holyman company has made several approaches to me concerning bringing new ships, or imported ships, on to the Australian coast. I have given the company a number of extensions of time with respect to a ship it already has on the coast- a ship that was built overseas and imported into Australia. I have cooperated with the company. The former honourable member for Bass, the Honourable Lance Barnard, spoke to me about this matter on a number of occasions and I co-operated with him and gave the company every assistance possible. It is true to say that at this stage I have not approved the importation of the ship from New Zealand that the company is desirous of bringing to Australia. The matter is still under consideration. It will be interesting to hear what the Opposition has to say on whether it believes in the importation of second hand ships to the disadvantage of the Australian shipbuilding industry. If the Holyman company is prepared to build a replacement ship in Australia, we will be able to give the matter more favourable consideration. 
I will deal now with the other part of the honourable member's question, which was about the freight rates that apply to Tasmania being crippling. Let me say to the honourable member that when the Party of which he is now a member was in government it did nothing whatsoever to assist Tasmania as far as freight rates are concerned. It continually increased freight rates and gave no assistance whatsoever in this place. As far as the actions of the present Government are concerned, the recent 40 per cent increase in freight rates was applicable throughout Australia. It was applicable not only to Tasmania but also to other people using the Australian National Line for the carriage of general cargo. That increase was necessary because of the increases that had occurred in port charges, the cost of fuel and the cost of labour and as a result of industrial disputes. Those matters placed an additional burden on the ANL and on other shipping companies. The real position, as the Prime Minister has said, is that the present Government will endeavour to assist the people of Tasmania. 
Let us look at the real facts. This year we will be subsidising northbound freight to the extent of $4m to $5m. That is $4m to $5m more than the Party of which the honourable member for Bass is now a member was ever prepared to pay. We are paying a subsidy of $ 1 m a year in respect of the  Empress of Australia.  That is $lm more than the honourable member's Party was ever prepared to spend. The carriage of wheat from the mainland to Tasmania will be subsidised to the extent of about $1.8m. Let us boil down the matter in facts and figures. Every Tasmanian family is receiving from the present Government a subsidy of about $80 a year. On a per capita basis that represents about $22 for every man, woman and child in Tasmania. As a result of action taken by the Whitlam Labor Government, freight rates are being subsidised. 
Representatives of the paper manufacturers saw me and said that they were being disadvantaged by the increase in freight rates. I asked them with whom they were in competition. They certainly are not in competition with any other Australian paper manufacturer, because there is none. I explained to them that if they were experiencing problems with respect to paper imports the way to go about overcoming them was to approach either the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission and to seek an increase in tariff protection. That is up to them. It is not up to the Department of Transport to determine the extent and the degree of disability that they might incur. As far as the other bulk commodities that are being exported from Tasmania are concerned, the Tasmanian exporters are not in competition with anyone else. Other Australian bulk commodity handlers have to pay the increase. There is no reason why the Tasmanian bulk section should not likewise be required to carry it. As far as southbound traffic is concerned, it was clearly established in a Bureau of Transport Economics study that was carried out late in 1972 and presented to the Parliament in 1973 that a considerable amount of the southbound freight comes under price equalisation and therefore Tasmania is not disadvantaged. All the bunkum that has been printed about the effect the increase will have on prices in reality cannot be borne out by the facts. 
So that the people would get a fair go the Government appointed  Mr Nimmo  to carry out a study of the requirements of the situation and what should be done about it. But the real answer to the problem is the establishment of an Inter-State Commission so that the facts and figures can be established and so that all the details can be brought out. It is the Opposition which is frustrating the establishment of an Inter-State Commission. In fact if the Opposition had allowed the legislation to go through the Senate, the Inter-State Commission at this stage would have been operational and would have been in the position to carry out a detailed investigation into any disability from which Tasmanians suffer and which the Liberal and Country Party governments in 23 years of office were not prepared to tackle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, and I refer you to the general comments made recently by the Prime Minister on your series of questions. 
Yes. 
and (4) Yes.. Under the provisions of the Third Schedule of the Airlines Agreements Act 1972, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is obliged, after the end of each financial year, to furnish to me for presentation to the Parliament, full financial information in respect of that part of its business and that of its subsidiary companies as relates to the operation of air services. Accordingly, since the date when this requirement came into force, I have tabled before Parliament the annual accounts of Ansett Airlines of Australia on two occasions, first in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 1973,. and then more recently, in respect of the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2324) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
116. 
At the Premiers' Conference in February of this year, the Premiers were asked what additional road funds they required in 1974-7S to maintain their scheduled road programs. 
The Premiers asked for an additional $30 million, and this amount was made available. Of this, S3.96 million was allocated to Rural Local roads. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) As a non-smoker myself, I have been personally interested in the development of non-smoking areas in Australian domestic aircraft. In February 1972, Ansett Airlines and TAA agreed to set aside groups of seats in both first class and economy class compartments for non-smokers, who might ask to be seated in these areas when seats were being allocated prior to the departure of the flight. At that time 1 8 seats were set aside for non-smokers in DC-9 aircraft and 20 seats in Boeing 727- 100 aircraft. 
Since the introduction of non-smoking seats, which I might add were not widely availed of initially, both Ansett Airlines and TAA have carried out continuous market surveys to ensure that the provision of non-smoking seats has kept pace with social trends. In this regard, non-smokers are now provided with 27 seats on DC-9 aircraft, 30 seats on B727-100 aircraft and 36 seats on Boeing 727-200 aircraft, the number of seats being proportionate between first class and economy class compartments. 
I am sure that you will also be interested to learn that Qantas Airways has recently doubled its seat allocation for nonsmokers and now provides up to 108 non-smoking seats on Boeing 747 aircraft and 40 non-smoking seats on Boeing 707 aircraft. Although some other international airlines do provide slightly more non-smoking seats, it is pleasing to see Qantas adapting to passenger requirements. 
It must be recognised however, that a significant number of air travellers do wish to smoke and would undoubtedly object strenuously to measures preventing them from doing so. The airlines are of course sensitive to this as, indeed, they are to the position of the non-smoker. The arrangements which they have introduced for the segregation of smokers and non-smokers is essentially a compromise. Nevertheless, it is an encouraging development in line with social trends and one which I am personally keen to see pursued further. 
As the level of community reaction against smoking increases, as hopefully it will, the arrangements made by the airlines for the accommodation of smokers on their aircraft will unquestionably reflect this changed community attitude. We might look forward, perhaps, to the assignment of smokers to seats in smoking areas, segregated from the majority of non-smokers. For the present, however, the airlines are endeavouring to ensure that their passengers, both smokers and non-smokers alike, are subject to the minimum of inconvenience 
ABC Rock Station 2J J  (Question No. 2466) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No Australian Government assistance by way of loans has been provided. 
The Australian Government has provided financial assistance by way of non-repayable grants to the Victorian Government towards the improvement of Urban Public Transport under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 and the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) 
Act 1974. Details of the assistance approved for railway projects in Victoria are as follows: 
Assistance approved: 1973-74, $8.97m; 1974-75, $10.08m; 1975-76, $8.38m; 1976-77, $5.55m; 1977-78, $3.56m. Total $36.54m. 
It is expected that additional amounts will subsequently be made available in the future years of the program. 
Under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 the Australian Government has allocated $26m over the three years 1974-75 to 1976-77 for a transport planning and research program by the States. Of this total allocation $175,550 has so far been provided for Victorian railway projects. 
The Australian Government also provided $1.0m for 1973-74 under the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Act 1974 of which $4,700 was allocated for Victorian railway planning and research projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) On 13 May 1975, you sought details as to international aircraft movements into and out of Perth. The following schedule lists the information you have sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am unable to provide more recent information as the last survey of vehicle usage by the Australian Bureau of Statistics was in 1971. 
In Victoria in 1971, the number of casualty accidents per motorcycle kilometre was approximately seven times higher than the rate for cars and station wagons. 
3 ) In 1 97 1 , no other State or Territory published casualty and accident data by type of vehicle. In the absence of this data, it is not possible to comment on the degree to which the Victorian data would be representative of the other States and Territories or Australia as a whole. 
Based on the data provided in the answer to question No. 1808, the ratio between the motorcycle and car and station wagon casualty and accident rates is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Bill 1975, which is to approve the Agreement for the transfer of the nonmetropolitan South Australian Railways to the Australian Government. Honourable members will, I am sure, recall that I introduced similar legislation relating to this transfer, and the transfer of the entire Tasmanian Government Railways, during our last session and that this legislation passed all stages. The Tasmanian Agreement was approved by the State Parliament and, as a consequence, the former Tasmanian Government Railways became the Tasmanian region of the Australian National Railways Commission on 1 July 1975. In the case of South Australia the State Legislative Council rejected the transfer legislation and a State election ensued. The Dunstan Government was returned and the South Australian legislation approving the Agreement has now been passed. It now only remains for this Parliament to approve the Agreement again, for the legislative requirements of the transfer to be met. 
It is necessary for the Australian Parliament to again approve the Agreement because section 2 (2) of the earlier Railways (South Australia) Act provided that that Act would not come into operation unless South Australian legislation approving the Agreement came into force on or before 1 July 1975. The first of July was an appropriate date because it coincided with the commencement of the financial year and also was the date proclaimed for the Australian National Railways Commission to come into existence. The Act was not passed by the South Australian Parliament by this date so the earlier Australian Act could not come into operation. Honourable members will notice that the present Agreement is in fact the one the Parliament previously approved. The reason for this is that the Australian and State governments are concerned that the people of South Australia should not be penalised financially by the initial rejection of the South Australian legislation. This Bill therefore approves the existing Agreement with effect from 1 July 1975 as did the State legislation approving the Agreement. 
Honourable members will be aware that it is very unusual for an Agreement to be approved retrospectively. During my years in Parliament I do not recall this being done, but in the present circumstances I am convinced that it is warranted. The main argument against retrospectivity is that the rights of third parties could be adversely affected. However, in the present situation, during the interim period provided for in the Agreement, the State authorities will be deemed to have continued, and will continue, to administer, maintain and operate the nonmetropolitan South Australian Railways under State laws but subject to direction by the Australian National Railways Commission until the declared date, which is expected to be in about 12 months. As a consequence third party rights will be protected. 
The State will, however, benefit from the retrospectivity in the following ways: Firstly, there will be retrospective confirmation of the payment referred to in clause 16 of the Bill so that the amounts in question can be taken into account by the State in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 1975; secondly the State will be freed and discharged from 1 July 1975 from debt repayments and interest in relation to the debts set out in the sixth schedule referred to in clause 19 of the Agreement; and thirdly, under clause 20 of the Agreement the State will be freed from 1 July 1975 from losses incurred on the operation of the non-metropolitan railways. With the passing of this Bill a date can be set for the non-metropolitan South Australian Railways to become part of the Australian National Railways Commission- the first mainland railway system to do so- and a further major step will have been taken towards the creation of a national railway system. 
On a number of occasions in the past I have spoken about the need and benefits for a national railway system- twice in the previous session of Parliament, the first on the introduction of the Australian National Railways Bill 1975 and the second on the introduction of the previous Railways (South Australia) Bill. I do not propose to discuss these benefits in any detail again except to remind honourable members that a national railway system would have the means of overcoming the disadvantages inherent in the operations of State railway systems. Railway problems can be tackled in accordance with national priorities. Long overdue improvements and economies can be made. Our first task will be to prepare a program of improvements for the South Australian region of ANR, a program that will be carefully evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics to ensure that maximum benefits are obtained from the finances that will be provided. 
It is fitting that the first mainland State railway to be transferred to the Australian Government should be in South Australia because the South Australian non-metropolitan railway system is the system most readily able to be integrated with the present system operated by the Australian National Railways Commission and will enable the benefits of the Australian Government's transfer policy to become apparent quickly. As South Australia has common borders with all mainland States and rail connections with all mainland States except Queensland it will form the central core of a national railway system that can be built on in the future. 
I come now to the actual provisions of the Bill. I have circulated explanatory notes on the various clauses of the Bill for the benefit of honourable members and I have reproduced the notes on the Agreement that were circulated when the Agreement was previously approved. As the Agreement has been available to honourable members for some months and its provisions are well known, I will confine myself to a brief description of some aspects of the legislation. On the whole the legislation is very similar to the previous legislation. 
Clause 3 repeals the previous Railways (South Australia) Act 1975. Clause 5 is the clause which approves the Agreement. Clauses 6 and 7 are the clauses where retrospectivity is imparted concerning the vesting of land and other property in the Australian National Railways Commission. Clause 16 confirms that the $10m required to be paid to South Australia has in fact been paid, under Appropriation Act (No. 6) 1975. 
In conclusion, this Bill is one of the most important pieces of transport legislation introduced by any Australian Government. Because of it the mainland railways will be able to take the first step into a new era of rail transportation, where the emphasis will be on meeting the nation's needs in fair competition with other transport modes. I venture to predict that before too long the other States will realise the benefits to be gained from a wholly national rail system and will follow the lead given by South Austrafia. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
-Recently members of my Department had discussions with the principals of the Department of Transport in South Australia who advised that they expected to complete the sealing of the Eyre Highway during 1975-76. There have been some problems with some of the contractors, one of whom had to relinquish his contract which in turn has been taken up by other contractors. So that part of the work is proceeding quite satisfactorily. At the moment, apart from the 3 earthwork contractors, the South Australian Highways Department and the contractors who are doing the priming and sealing have 6 tankers working on the job. As I said to the honourable member earlier, it is anticipated that the construction and sealing will be completed this year. It is part of our objective to ensure that the Trans- Australia Railway is then in competition with the road hauliers as well as sea transport so that there will be a truly competitive position between these modes of transport. On top of that we want to use the equipment that is being used on sealing the Eyre Highway to get under way with work on the Stuart Highway, which was part of the Prime Minister's election policy and promises. Once we can get the equipment released from work on the Eyre Highway it can then be used on the Stuart Highway. 
The honourable member asked whether there are any procedural matters holding up completion of the Eyre Highway. No, as far as this Government is concerned all the approvals that are necessary under the national highway program have been put through and there is no reason why work should be held up by reason of finance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The article mentioned had not previously been drawn to my attention, nor to the attention of relevant officers of the Department of Transport. 
The article distorts many of the facts and is in error in respect of others. 
As the matter came neither to my attention nor that of relevant officers of the Department of Transport in a period exceeding two months after publication it is reasonable to assume that the article was not a source of substantial public apprehension. In view of this lack of evidence of public apprehension attributable to it, I see little merit in now giving further recognition to the article by way of a public statement of its errors and inaccuracies. 
-It is perfectly true that the honourable member for Bowman, the honourable member for Brisbane,  Senator McAuliffe  and one or two other honourable members have made representations to me on this matter, and that the  president  of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council,  Mr Egerton,  has done so also. All these people have written to me concerning the possible closure of Evans Deakin Ltd. 
-In quite friendly terms. The position is that they have written also to the Prime Minister who sent me a copy of a letter which he addressed to the Premier of Queensland last week and in which he has asked the Premier whether he would be prepared to make available a copy of a study which has been done in Queensland on the basis of the development of a shipping and shipbuilding complex at the mouth of the Brisbane River. I do not know the outcome of the Prime Minister's letter. Obviously the Premier has not replied; if he had done so the Prime Minister, as is his usual procedure, would have sent me a copy of the reply. The Prime Minister also drew to the attention of the Premier the fact that since 1972 Evans Deakin could have tendered for 32 ships involving 26 different projects, but it did not do so. It tendered in 12 cases and this involved 16 ships. On each occasion it was not the lowest tender. 
Honourable members will recall that when Walkers Ltd shipyards closed last year the Prime Minister made an offer to Walkers and to the Queensland Government for a 3-way or a 2-way arrangement between the Australian Government and either the company and/or the Queensland Government to take over Walkers shipyard and operate it. This offer was rejected by both the Queensland Government and Walkers. The Prime Minister has now sought the opinion and the views of the Queensland Government in relation to a similar project in respect of which discussions are taking place at the present time between the New South Wales Government and the Australian Government concerning the Newcastle State Dockyard. The Prime Minister also drew to the attention of the Queensland Premier the fact that only recently the Australian National Line called tenders for three or four 15 000 ton bulk ships. This would involve about $70m worth of work. They have not bothered to tender for that contract either. So taken all round I believe that this Government has done all in its power to assist, to ensure that this shipyard is kept in operation and to make sure that work is available for the men there. 
in reply- I wish to reply to just a few points raised by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  He asked a number of questions which I shall endeavour to answer. The first one that he was concerned about was in relation to wheat silos. Naturally in the agreement we take over all existing conditions, contracts, assets and liabilities. The South Australian Railways had an agreement with the owners of the wheat silos; that agreement will transfer to the Australian Government. Clauses 6 and 7 make the Agreement retrospective; so the situation is that the owners of the silos are fully protected. I do not know whether the point at issue is whether they want an Australian Government landlord or a South Australian Government landlord, but they are fully protected. 
-Yes, of course. From our point of view, their assets and rights are fully protected. The honourable member referred to the Sixth Schedule and to the variations in interest rates therein. When the honourable member asked about the period of the loans involved I tried to obtain the information, but it was not possible to do so immediately. If the honourable member wants the information I can obtain it from the Treasury. That information is not readily available. There are fluctuations in the interest rates and these fluctuations occur because of the commencing dates of the loans. We know the maturity dates, but we do not know whether the loans are for periods of 20, 30 or 50 years. 
-Yes, loans that the South Australian Railways has negotiated. The honourable member referred also to the closure of lines. That situation is protected under the terms of the Agreement in respect of the closure of lines and reductions in services. I refer the honourable member to Part II of the Schedule and to section 9 in particular. It reads: 
The Australian Minister will obtain the prior agreement of the State Minister to- 
any proposal for the closure of a railway line of the non-metropolitan railways; or 
the reduction in the level of effectively demanded services on the non-metropolitan railways, and failing agreement on any of these matters the dispute shall be determined by arbitration. 
The arbitrator shall, in addition to the factors referred to in sub-clause (2) of clause 23, take into account the level of public demand and the need for the railway line and services referred to in sub-clause ( 1 ) of this clause. 
In reality the position is quite clear. Before we can close a line we must secure the agreement of the State Minister. If we cannot get agreement, the matter goes to arbitration and the matters to be taken into consideration there are clearly spelt out. 
The honourable member for Gippsland was concerned about proposals with respect to roads. He referred to the Australian National Railways Act. I point out that the Government accepted a provision which he and I negotiated. That provision is contained in the Act in words that he and I accepted. We agreed to amend the former Act so as to meet the Opposition's requirements. I have no intention of welching on that agreement. 
-Of course. Once the Australian National Railways takes over the non-metropolitan section of the South Australian Railways it will become part and parcel of the Australian National Railways. 
-It is in the Australian National Railways Act, which is the important thing. It is a section which the honourable member for Gippsland and I negotiated, he on behalf of his Party and I on behalf of the Government. The conditions that will apply are clear. It says that we can operate road services incidental to the operation of a railway. In fact we believe that the system of road transport from Melbourne to Port Augusta for the transport of cars for car manufacturers was carried out illegally. The same applies with respect to coordinated road and rail transport to Alice Springs and northwards. This is now being provided for legally under terms which the Opposition's shadow Minister and I agreed. I do not propose to welch on that agreement. I think I have dealt with the points that were raised in the debate by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
My colleague the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  raised the matter of the future of people now employed by the South Australian Railways. An amalgamation is taking place. Men already employed by the Australian National Railways, formerly the Commonwealth Railways, have their conditions prescribed. There will be an amalgamation of the various systems which will all become part of the Australian National Railways. The conditions of employees of the South Australian Railways are adequately protected. They have been negotiated with the trade union movement. The Government has said to those trade unions whose members are employees of the South Australian Railways: 'These are the conditions in the South Australian Railways and these are the conditions in the Australian National Railways. You can take your pick. After you take your pick, all new employees coming into the service will come in under Australian National Railways conditions. Those coming over can take their pick'. In my lifetime I have seen many transfers of employees which have involved trade unions as well as rearrangement as a result of amalgamations. It is surprising how quickly difficulties are worked out of the system. People leave and people retire from an industry, and before long everything is settled and there is no longer any problem. I think that situation will apply in this instance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I am astounded that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  should come into the Parliament today and raise such a matter for discussion as a matter of public importance after the shocking, hopeless record that he had as Minister for Shipping and Transport in the former Government. The former Government did nothing- I underline the word 'nothing'- to assist Tasmania with freight rates. Let us just look at his charming, magnificent record. In August 1970 he approved of an increase in freight rates on all Tasmanian trade of 1216, in July 1971 an increase of 12!6 per cent on Sydney-Tasmania freight, and increase of 8 per cent on Melbourne-Tasmania freight, in August 1972 a 12 per cent increase on SydneyTasmania dense cargo freight, a 25 per cent increase on Melbourne-Tasmania dense cargo freight- these are all in the one whack- a 20 per cent surcharge on hazardous cargo, a 17 per cent increase on newsprint, the removal of a 22 per cent concessional rate on heavy cargo and the removal of an 18 per cent concessional rate on industrial machinery. 
The only response of the then Minister for Shipping and Transport was to ask a Senate committee to look at the matter. What did the Senate committee, which his Party, the then government of the day, controlled with its numbers, find? It found that the increases introduced by the Australian National line at that time were justified. What was the response? What was the answer to the problem? The former Government had no answer to it other than to commission a bureau of Transport Economics report. The Bureau's report entitled 'Assessment of Tasmania's Interstate Transport Problems' was presented tohe Parliament by me. If the honourable member for Gippsland had been the Minister the report would have been stuck under the table. No one would have ever known what it contained because the former Government did not believe in putting out reports and letting people know just what were the findings and what were the results of studies conducted by the BTE or anyone else. All that report, for which the former Government was responsible for setting in train as its only answer to the problems of Tasmania, did was to bring attention to where the problems did exist. 
In the 1972 election campaign the Prime Minister  Mr Whitlam)  spelt out that when the Australian Labor Party became the Government it would take the appropriate action to ensure that Tasmania did not suffer any disadvantages in the transport of freight in comparison with the movement of freight between capital cities such as Sydney and Melbourne. We have moved on that. He said that we would set up an Inter-State Commission. But where have we got with the Inter-State Commission? It is locked up in the Senate, which is controlled by the Liveral and National Country Parties at the present time. It is locked up there and they will not let it loose. If ever there was a need to have it. It could examine not only the problems of Tasmania but also the farcical matter concerning Western Australia that the honourable member for Gippsland threw in on the side. 
Let us get one point clear. On the Western Australia trade between the west coast and the east coast Associated Steamships Pty Ltd cannot compete with rail. At the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in Adelaide on the first Friday in August when I raised this matter with my State colleagues, the Ministers for Transport, for Western Australia, South Australia and New South Wales, they all said that they were making a profit on the handling of containers on the east-west operation. The Australian National Railways Commissioner,  Mr Smith,  informed me likewise. We gave him a long grilling on the Thursday before the ATAC meeting so as to be certain of 2 things- firstly that the railways can cany the cargo and, secondly, that they are operating profitably. Three 
State Ministers said that their systems are making a profit and the Australian National Railways Commissioner said that he is making a profit on the east-west trade. So what do we do? Do we then subsidise a shipping operation to make it profitable and to be in competition with State and Australian National Railways' systems? I say to the honourable member for Gippsland: Spell out where you are going and never mind sitting there laughing because you know as well as I do that you have not got the answer to the problem that exists. 
The honourable member for Gippsland brushed over the problem of the cost involved in getting cargo to Darwin. He made passing reference to it. But what is his solution to the problem? He is like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Leader of the Opposition has no solution to the economic problems of today. We listened to a pathetic speech by him last night about what he was going to do. The honourable member for Gippsland is in just as big a mess with transport, as his record shows. He was one of the most pathetic Ministers for Shipping and Transport that this Parliament unfortunately has been burdened with. What did he do? The answer is nothing. 
I come back to Tasmania. The Prime Minister said that we would move on the question of freights. We have. Look at the results of what we have done. There have been periods in the last 2 1/2 years when Tasmania has had freight problems, when there has been a bank up brought about because the Tasmanian industry was unable to forecast its requirements. It did not make the information available either to the Union Steam Ship Co., to ANL or to William Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd for that matter. I will deal with the question of the  Wanaka  in a moment. I will deal with the honourable member for Gippsland too. The Tasmanian industry was unable to forecast its requirements. It never got a better deal from anyone than it got from us, because every time there was a bank up I made sure there were ANL officers in Tasmania to confer with the people and to put ships into Tasmania. We took them off other runs. We used the  Empress of Australia  to assist the movement of cargoes. When Tasmania had a problem we assisted it to do something about it. 
To deal with the problem in the long term we placed an order in 1973 for a Seacoaster. That ship will be launched within a couple of months. This is all a result of the lack of planning by the honourable member for Gippsland when he was the Minister. These are the problems which I inherited; these are the things I have done. We have placed an order for a Seacoaster which will be launched within the next couple of months. We knew there was a need so what did we do? We purchased overseas the  Melbourne Trader,  a 5000 ton ship, so as to provide additional tonnage in the trade. That ship was brought into operation in February-March of this year because the honourable member for Gippsland as Minister failed to plan for it and we had to pick up problems which he left as a tragic Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
What have we done to assist the trade? The  Empress of Australia  was losing money and we put a subsidy of $lm a year on it in the 1973 Budget. The former Government could have and did not. What did it do about the  Straitsman?  It was not prepared to give Captain Houfe any assistance whatsoever. In Opposition we had a look at the position. We were given wrong information. I still believe that the  Straitsman  was not the right ship for the trade, but at the same time we assisted the Tasmanian Government, which wanted to retain the  Straitsman.  We wanted to get rid of it and bring on a ship we considered was more specialised for the trade. The State Government decided that it wanted to retain the  Straitsman  and so we loaned it the money, by way of a special grant, to buy the ship. The former Government was not prepared to do anything with Captain Houfe, with the  Straitsman  or with the Tasmanian Government. We could have and did. It could have and did not. This is the whole story of the tragic time when the honourable member for Gippsland was in office as Minister for Shipping and Transport. We loaned funds to acquire the  Rah.  The Tasmanian Transport Commission is so well equipped with ships that it now has the  Joseph Banks  on the market for sale. This is because we gave it assistance. We went on with the agreement to provide funds for  Grassy.  This is what has been going on. 
I summarise very quickly the things we have done. We tried to set up the Inter-State Commission. The Opposition is frustrating it by holding it up in the Senate. We knew we would have problems with it so we asked  Mr Nimmo  to conduct an inquiry and report to us. My Department has assisted him in every possible way. My Permanent Head, who is a former equivalent of a  Deputy  Secretary in the Canadian Department of Transport, advised him where to go in Canada to look at problems similar to the Tasmanian problem. All the way through we have assisted him by providing consultants, and advising him on where to go and what to look for to assist him in bringing down a report. Unfortunately that report will not be brought down until late this year or early next year. 
On the question of subsidy, certainly we increased freight rates last year but north bound freight was not required to pay the increase. Certainly we have increased freight rates this year by 40 per cent but that is completely justified and if honourable members opposite want details I have the facts and figures here. Even though we have increased freight rates on south bound and on north bound traffic, in each case we have subsidised it. Section 17 of the Australian Shipping Commission Act provides that when the Government directs the Australian National Line to provide an unprofitable service it has to subsidise ANL and so pay for the service. The previous Government was not prepared to do that. We did it. The previous Government could have and did not; we could have and did. We are now subsidising north bound freight rates to the extent of $4m to $5m. We have provided $ 1 m in respect of the  Empress of Australia  and have covered an additional loss of $1.7m on the  Australian Trader  and the  Empress of Australia.  That is a total of $2.7m. Certainly the amount provided under the wheat equalisation scheme has climbed to $1.7m. This could be reduced if the Tasmanians would adopt a more reasonable approach to it. Taken all round, we are providing subsidies to Tasmania on freight rates which will reach about $9m this year. 
Now let us look at the Opposition's pathetic record when in office. Its assistance was nothing. The best it could do was call for a report. The Senate Committee which it set up said that increases were justified. This Government is giving every household in Tasmania the equivalent of a subsidy of $80 or, in other words, $22.50 per person. There have been comments on the effects of the 40 per cent increase in south bound freight rates. The fact is that the increase in the consumer price index in Hobart has been less- I emphasise the word 'less'- than it has been in any other capital city in Australia. These are facts which the honourable member for Gippsland cannot answer. In the pathetic wordy speech he delivered here a while ago he spelled out nothing. 
I said that I would give a breakdown of costs which resulted in the 40 per cent increase in freight rates, and these details were included in a Press release I put out at the time. The breakdown shows that terminal and stevedoring charges went up by 38 per cent, a cost of $2. 8m; oil bunkers went up by 125 per cent, a cost of $1.4m; interest charges went up by 35 per cent, a cost of $.4m; ship operating costs went up by 15 per cent- that is a cost for which we are responsibleand cost $1.6m; administrative and cargo costs went up by 1 5 per cent, a cost of $ 1 .4m. It is for those reasons that the increases had to be made. It is perfectly true that the Government estimates that industrial stoppages cost the ANL $3m on general cargo operations this year and something like $6m on its total operation. 
In the few minutes available to me I want to deal with the  Wanaka.  Wm Holyman &amp; Sons Pty Ltd is basically owned by the Union Steam Ship Co. It is one of the major shareholders in Holyman. Who owns the  Wanaka?  It is the Union Steam Ship Co. There is the Union Steam Ship Co. in New Zealand and the Union Steam Ship Co. in Australia but it is still the Union Steam Ship Co. It is the same company which owns Holyman and it is the same company which owns the  Wanaka.  Who is fooling whom? Who is the humbug here? He is certainly not on this side of the House. I think it is the honourable member for Gippsland who has come in here to try to peddle this story. Why does he not tell the whole story? In 1971 he approved the  Mary Holyman  coming on to the coastal service on the condition that it was replaced within 2 years with an Australian built ship. I have given the company extension after extension to assist it to get over its problems. The previous Government required rebuilding within 2 years. That would have meant by 1973. It is now 1975. 1 am a terrible man, am I not, with horns and a tail- the lot? When we talk about the  Wanaka  we are talking about the Union Steam Ship Co. because it has a major shareholding in Holyman and owns the  Wanaka.  These are the facts. 
In respect of oil tankers, I challenged the honourable member for Gippsland while he was speaking to produce proof that I had issued a permit for six 70 000 ton tankers without a replacement. No such permit has been issued and no such permit will be issued without an understanding on replacement of those ships in Australian yards. I wish the honourable member for Gippsland would get his facts clear. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-I plead not guilty to the allegations contained in the honourable member's question. The fact of the matter is that in the last 3 years the Australian Government has negotiated programs with the State governments totalling some $207m of which our commitment was $138m. The details in rounded figures are that in the first year of the program, 1973-74, we allocated $31m to the States and they spent $12m, while in the following year, 1974-75, we allocated $66m of which they spent only $32m, leaving a surplus for that year of $34m. Knowing that this year budgeting would be tight, officers of my Department had discussions with each of the State departments and as a result of those discussions the States informed us that they could spend only $43m this year on approved programs. Honourable members are aware that in this year's Budget a sum of $43m is provided for the upgrading of urban public transport. 
So we come back to the old question: For 23 years there was a Liberal-Country Party Government which did not give one cent to the States for their public transport systems. Apparently that created no crisis. In the  2h  years we have been in office we have made money available to the States in the sums I have just mentioned and apparently that creates a crisis. This shows the humbug that this Government has to put up with from State Ministers. Last Friday in Sydney I met State Ministers and said to them that if they were having problems with regard to the expenditure of the $43m allocated they should put together a program showing where we could reallocate that money on a one off basis and I would be prepared to have a reasonable and sensible look at it and, if need be, take it back to the Cabinet and ask the Cabinet to review the whole position. This is the situation at the moment. It seems that if we give the States nothing we have no problems but if we commit ourselves to large expenditure, as we have done, then we have problems. 
At the same time we have rolling stock manufacturers talking about having to lay off people. For 23 years the Liberal-Country Party Government gave nothing for rolling stock. Last year we allocated enough money to build 500 high speed bogie wagons. This year there will be money for 800 wagons. Apparently this creates a problem, whereas if we do nothing there are no problems. It is the old story of whenever there is a problem blame the Feds. This is what is taking place at present. I challenge the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party to stand in this place today or on any other day and say that they will increase the amount we have already, allocated to the States for public transport. Let them say straight out: 'Yes, we will increase that'. Last Friday I said to gentlemen from the same parties: 'You have 2 policies, a State policy which is to blow it up and spend all you can and a Federal policy which is not to spend anything'. 
-I have seen claims and I have also seen very expensive Press advertisements by Budget Rent A Car Systems Pty Ltd claiming that Avis Rent-A-Car has been receiving preferential treatment at the hands of this Government. The facts are that in 1969 the former Liberal-Country Party Government accepted a tender on a 10-year basis because of the large capital outlay that was necessary - 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads titled National Highways Linking Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra, 1975. Due to the limited numbers available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. In addition, copies of supplementary documents referred to in the introduction to the report have also been placed in the Parliamentary Library, although these documents are not now being tabled. 
We are most fortunate that it was a new moon last Thursday and that the full moon is still about 10 days away. 
-Otherwise we would have had a real performance tonight. 
When any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a Member who is addressing the Chair or a Member who is present, the  Speaker  shall intervene. 
I ask you to carry out your functions as Speaker fairly and impartially. 
-If the honourable member finds them offensive- factual but offensiveI withdraw them. 
-I withdraw. 
-According to my tide chart there was a new moon last Thursday. That is factual. It is a pity that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did not go on and refer to the time that he and the former member for Macarthur tried to break into Garden Island during the last war and the then Minister left them rotting in boob all night. 
-The Bill provides $3m to carry out a widening of the Tasman Bridge so that instead of there being 4 traffic lanes there can be 5 traffic lanes. One of the things which has struck me about the debate tonight and this afternoon is the irrelevant matter that has been brought into it. Honourable members opposite have really been clutching at straws, making irrelevant and irrational statements which they cannot back up with facts. For example, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in leading the debate had to rely for his speech on 2 newspaper cuttings, one of which was almost 5 months old, about some mythical survey that was carried out by some individual but which had very little relevance to the facts of life. Let us look at what has been done by this Government in an endeavour to overcome the problems that have been created by this unfortunate and tragic accident. Nobody has yet suggested that it was not accidental or that it was the fault of this Government that the Australian National Line ship collided with the Bridge. We should also look at what has been done by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  to overcome the problems created by this unfortunate accident. I refer to the new government department offices that have been set up on the east side of the Derwent River so that people will be less inconvenienced than they would have been if we had disregarded them and had no regard for their problems. 
I give full credit to the honourable members for Denison and Franklin for what they have done. They have not run around asking questions and going on with all sorts of nonsense such as we have heard from the Opposition here tonight. As a result of the work of these men a community health service has been provided, an office of the Department of Social Security has been established, new roads have been put in to service the area- I will deal with the Old Beach Road at a later stage and will tell the House just what did occur in regard to that road- grants have been made to the Clarence Council, an office of the Department of Labor and Immigration has been set up as well as Social Welfare offices. All told more money has been made available to the east side than ever before to try - to overcome this unfortunate problem. One cannot knock down a bridge over a major river like the Derwent and carry on as though nothing has happened. These honourable members have done something practical about the problems. They realise that it will not be repaired for some considerable time. It was a major job to build it in the first place but its replacement will be an even greater job. 
I listened to the garbage that was dished up to us a short time ago by the honourable member for Mackellar who talked about the Army moving in and putting up a Bailey bridge overnight. Of course that is something we would do during a war when thousands of people were losing their lives, but we are talking about peacetime. The former member for Bass, the  Hon.  Lance Barnard, had the Army, which came within his Department, to have a look at that proposition. And what was the advice that the Army engineers gave to the Government? They said that it was not feasible to put a pontoon bridge across the river. They said that a pontoon bridge was not a proposition over a river that wide and which would have to carry that amount of traffic. In this situation the aluminium pontoons would have been exposed to salt water where normally they would be used in fresh water on narrower rivers. We are talking about a river over which a pontoon bridge was not a proposition. The Government took the only action that was possible and, in conjunction with the Tasmanian Government and the Tasmanian Public Works Department, put a pile bridge across as a temporary measure. That is all it can be. If we are talking in terms of permanent structures, why waste the money of the people replacing and renewing spans that were knocked out in this tragic accident? This has to be a temporary structure. The piles will be installed and I hope it will not be too long before this temporary bridge is removed and people will be using the new or repaired bridge. 
The honourable member for Gippsland said that when this bridge was completed or restored certain things would happen and he mentioned some of the bottlenecks on the approaches to the bridge. Some people have awfully short memories. If I remember rightly, the honourable mem- ber for Gippsland or one of his ilk was Minister for Shipping and Transport at the time when the bridge was built but his Government never said to the Tasmanian Government at that time: 'What you are doing is ridiculous. What you are doing will create bottlenecks'. But the Opposition is pretty good after the event. That is the situation. The honourable member for Gippsland was the Minister who approved of the plans. So any bottlenecks that exist on the approaches to the bridge are not this Government's doing, but the doings of the former Government. So when honourable members opposite talk about what should be done, they should not cast any aspersions at us. At least we are trying to get down to a national road system. With regard to the Amalgamated Metal Workers strike, we have heard a lot of words from the Opposition, but we have not heard one remark from the honourable member for Gippsland on this. I interjected consistently during his speech, trying to provoke him into giving us an answer as to what he would have done. 
-I know I was naughty.  Mr Speaker,  finally, I am pleased to say, called me to order so that my interjections are now recorded in  Hansard.  I kept asking the honourable member for Gippsland what he would do, and even at this point, some hours later, he has not come up with the answer; neither have any of his supporting speakers come up with an answer. Why did he not come up with an answer when I was asking him for the answer? For one simple reason: he was confining his speech to the Press articles that had been written 5 months ago and with which he has not kept up. 
Let us go back to the. real position: When this accident occurred, it caused a great mess of broken piling underneath the bridge decking, all of which is in deep water where men can work only for about half an hour before they have to surface. This is a most difficult problem that has beset the engineers. I think they have gone about their task in a pretty methodical way because what they do has to be permanent. I believe that the designs and plans that they have put together are permanent, practical and something that can be put into operation. When one compares what has been done by the Tasmanian Government and this Government with the bungling by the Victorian Liberal-Country Party Government in connection with the Westgate Bridge, one will see the mess that the Victorian Government has made. Once again, unfortunately, many members of my union lost their lives in that disaster as a result of engineering bungling brought about by the Victorian Liberal-Country Party Government. Honourable members opposite should not talk to me about bungling. Let us recall what Bethune, the former Liberal Premier of Tasmania, did to the Bell Bay to Launceston railway. The original estimate was $4.75m but the final cost of it was almost $30m. Honourable members opposite should not talk to me about bungling when they consider the mess that was made of the Bell Bay to Launceston railway. 

 -Mr Speaker, with due regard to you, I will accept your ruling. But members of the Opposition drew attention to the alleged bungling that is taking place. I think that the Tasmanian Government and this Government have done an exceptionally good job in ensuring that people can at least get some form of transport as quickly as possible. We arranged for them to buy ferries. Sure they made a mistake with one of them; it was a bomb. But there is an old saying that you never buy a car from your friend and you do not buy something from a friendly government either. That is what happened as far as one of the ferries is concerned. But at least the people involved were having a go to provide the people of Hobart with some transport. That is more than the people across the way would have done. 
With regard to Old Beach Road, I had discussions with the Premier very shortly after the unfortunate accident and we came to a clear understanding. The result was that Old Beach Road was resurfaced. It was previously a dust track and I drove over it to find out what condition it was in and what the people would be subjected to. As a result of the action that we took, there is now a road- admittedly it is a long way round but at least it is a road- which will enable people to move around if they want to use it. The Derwent River is a long river and it does create problems so we did move to do something about it. Landing craft have been provided so that in the event of emergencies requiring police, ambulance, fire brigades or services of that type there are facilities to transport them very quickly across the river. Honourable members opposite should be fair, honest and sincere and stop playing politics by trying to boost up the Warden of Clarence Council who is a Liberal candidate who will oppose  Mr Ray  Sherry, the Labor sitting member for Franklin, at the next general election. Honourable members opposite are trying to boost that man's reputation but he has no possible hope of unseating the honourable member for Franklin 
-I know the honourable member did not mention the Liberal candidate but I mentioned him for the honourable member. 
-He is the Warden of Clarence Council. He has Buckley's chance of ever getting into this place, because Ray Sherry the member will be here after the next election. 
-I am not. There has been some criticism of the manner in which the Government has handled the engineering side of this situation. The honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)'  referred to the proliferation of committees that have been set up in association with this work. The fact of the matter is that this Government has endeavoured to bring in as many experienced people as possible to assist. This includes a former Secretary to the Treasury who was appointed by a Liberal-Country Party government-  Sir Roland  Wilson. We did not play politics. We acknowledged that he was the best man for the job and we appointed him to do the job. One of the  deputy  secretaries of my Department,  Mr Phillips,  was posted to Hobart to do a job there. We received a letter of thanks from the Premier acknowledging the work that  Mr Phillips  had done in assisting to organise what had to be done in Hobart. It is necessary at times to appoint committees. The committees get on with the job. They involve the local people in what has to be done. That is what we set cut to do so that at least people would know what was under way. 
There has been criticism of the consulting engineering firm of Maunsell and Partners Pty Ltd which has been engaged by us. They have done a lot of consulting work as far as this Government is concerned and likewise they were consultants to the former Government. 
-I thank the honourable member for Gippsland for acknowledging the fact that we probably hired one of the best consultant firms available in Australia. According to the honourable member for Bass, that is a crime. It is wasting time. We got the best men that we could possibly get for the job to get on with the job. Maunsells has carried out its study. It is a very complicated engineering study and it has got on with the job. The engineering firm of John Holland (Constructions) Pty Ltd has already been advised that it has won the contract for its job. A contract has not been signed but over the past 3 months Hollands has been getting on with the job of removing debris where necessary from the floor of the river. It has been setting up its shore establishment so that as soon as the company is able to get on with the job it will do so. The company has been using 2 barge crane rigs to enable it to get the temporary crossing completed so at it can get with the permanent work. It does not matter which way we look at this situation, the facts are that this Government has done a first class job in providing alternative cross river transport, in providing facilities on the east side of the river, and providing access by way of road and by surfacing the Old Beach Road and paying for it and telling the Government in Tasmania to get on with the job and to get it out of the way. In comparing that record with the bungling that took place under the Bethune Government in regard to the Launceston to Bell Bay railway and the way in which the Liberal-National Country Party Government handled the Westgate Bridge tragedy in Victoria this Government has plenty of which to be proud. 
In conclusion, I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  this table which shows the amount of assistance which the Australian Government has given to Tasmania and is either directly or indirectly involved with this bridge collapse. 

<graphic href="096131197509093_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows that in 1974-75 $6m was spent on the repair of this bridge, providing replacement facilities and the like. The estimated expenditure for this year, 1975-76, is $ 13.9m. The estimated overall assistance at this stage totals $62m. Is that an indication that this Government has no regard whatsoever for Hobart and Tasmania and its problems? Any government that is prepared to put that sort of money into restoring, building up and providing the necessary replacement for what has been damaged and what has to be put there for the future gives me no indication that that government has no regard whatever for Hobart or Tasmania as a whole. The Government's actions are typical of all the things that it has been doing to assist Tasmania to cope with its problems. There is the money that has been provided in other avenues- railways and the like - 

 Mr NEWMAN (Bass)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to point out that I used as my authority speeches that had been made in this Parliament, particularly by a former member for East Sydney. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I have seen reports in various Sydney newspapers and one of the things that strikes me about them is the approach that newspapers have taken to this matter. The  Sydney Morning Herald  and the Sydney  Sun  put out a factual statement on what it was all about. An aircraft manufacturer has developed a short take-off and landing aircraft and so that it can sell the aeroplane it is talking in terms of having a floating airport built on Sydney Harbour. That is all right if one has an aeroplane to sell and needs somewhere to land it. Then the Sydney  Daily Mirror  in a leading article said: 
Sydney is one of the few cities in the world which has what amounts to an inner-city airport. So why on earth does the Australian Government want to foul up our Harbour by proposing a runway on it for short take-offs and landings? 
I have not even seen any official report about this proposal. As I mentioned earlier, it is a matter that has been floated by an aircraft manufacturer who is trying to sell an aeroplane and the only way he can sell it is to build a floating landing strip in Sydney Harbour. I think it is a ridiculous proposition for Sydney and I hope that the newspapers adopt a more reasonable approach to it. If anyone wants long odds about such a landing strip being installed I am thinking about opening a book on it. 
-Conflicting statements on this matter have been put out by the Premier of New South Wales. The Prime Minister wrote to the former Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, in February 1973 and suggested that if discussions concerning the transfer of responsibility for the New South Wales railways were held they might be to the mutual satisfaction of both governments. The Premier replied very shortly after that, in about March 1973, and agreed to the holding of exploratory discussions on a non-commitment basis. Further unofficial discussions were conducted. The New South Wales Government proposed that the terms of reference should include, for example, an examination of the question of whole or part transfer. That was agreed to. It also suggested that the parties to the discussions might identify the areas where increases in operating efficiency could be achieved by transfer of its railways to the Australian Government or by joint action on a cooperative basis between the 2 governments. This was likewise accepted in the terms of reference. 
Having approved the terms of reference, we got down to some joint meetings in April and September 1974. Departmental officers from both the New South Wales and Australian governments met and started to put together a report. Unfortunately there was a change of Premier in New South Wales in January 1975. Of course, one of the first things that the incoming Premier had to do was to establish the strong man role of 'hate the Feds' and 'have nothing whatever to do with the Australian Government'. So he terminated the discussions. It was not the action of the Australian Government; it was the action of the New South Wales Government. 
The position now is that the Australian Government is still prepared to sit down with the New South Wales Government to discuss the complete or partial transfer of its railways. If the Premier wants to get the guidelines on such a transfer he can refer to the terms of the agreements between the Australian Government and the South Australian and Tasmanian governments which have already been tabled in this Parliament Legislation concerning the transfer of the railways in those States has been through this House. In fact, the legislation concerning the South Australian railways has been brought forward on 2 occasions. There is any amount of precedent to which the Premier of New South Wales may refer to find out what the position is. I re-emphasise that we are still prepared to enter into negotiations with the New South Wales Government for the total  t.  partial transfer of the New South Wales railways to the Australian Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The letter was answered on 8 September 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The letter was answered on 1 0 September 1 975. 
-In April 1974, following discussions which the then Chairman and the General Manager of the Australian National Line had with the steel mills in Japan, the Australian Government decided to place an order in Sweden and in West Germany for the construction of two 120 000 ton bulk ships and two 140 000 ton bulk ships for the carriage of iron ore or coal from Australia to Japan. A clear understanding was arrived at that if we had the ships we would get the work. So we went ahead and placed orders on that clear understanding. 
I think that what honourable members have to understand is that in 1973-74 about 65 million tons of iron ore and coal was transported from Australia to Japan and that not one ton of those minerals was carried in Australian ships that were permanently on that trade between Australia and Japan. A small amount of the minerals was carried occasionally by ships which at the time were being positioned in Japan for some particular reason. We think that what we are doing is fair and reasonable, particularly when honourable members realise that freight rates on coal and iron ore carried between Australia and Japan are roughly half the rates that Japan pays for the transport of coal and iron ore from other parts of the world. So the Australia- Japan trade is one of the cheapest transport areas for Japan. In any case, the 4 ships to which I have referred would carry only about 7 per cent of Australia's total exports of coal and iron ore to Japan. I think it is not unreasonable that we should get into this trade. 
The Australia Government is committed to a policy of ensuring that 40 per cent of our exports are carried in Australian bottoms, and that is the way in which we are working on this question. At the moment there is a problem because of a downturn in freight brought about by the world economic situation that exists today. Tankers of total capacity of thousands and thousands of tons are tied up at present. The same thing can be said about bulk ships. The whole system of freight is under strong pressure because of the amount of tonnage that is being tied up throughout the world. There will be continuing discussions between Australia and Japan 
For the information of honourable members I present a report dated April 1975 by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: A Review of Public Transport Investment Proposals for Australian Capital Cities, 1974-75. Due to the limited numbers available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Par.liamentary Library. 
i wish to deal with some matters that have been raised by various speakers in the debate this afternoon. I refer first to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who complained very bitterly about a report that was put together by the Cessna Flying Club Incorporated which was critical of the Government. The honourable member quoted from a letter. I had acknowledged that letter. Obviously the Cessna Flying Club had given to the honourable member for Gippsland a copy of my letter to it. I seek leave of the Committee to incorporate in Hansard the letter from the Cessna Flying Club to me, dated 8 September. In that letter, the Cessna Flying Club thanks me for all that I have done and acknowledges that the report that it submitted was not altogether factual. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? 
Yes, he agreed to its incorporation. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Cessna Flying Club Inc. Para:eld Airport South Australia 5 106 Telephone 258 22 11 
The  Hon. Mr C.  K. Jones, MHR, Minister for Transport, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 8th September, 1975. 
Dear  Mr Jones, 
We would like to thank you for your letter dated August 26th, and we have noted your comments therein. 
In particular we would like to express our sincere appreciation for the meeting, which followed your letter, between our sub-committee and your Messrs. Smith, Graham, Evans, Barclay and Phelan and which was held at the Civil Aviation Institute on Monday night, 1st September, 1975. 
This meeting, minutes of which will be circulated as soon as possible, certainly was a successful move inasmuch as it enabled us to gain a clearer insight into the implications of the Cost Recovery Policy and the understanding which you apparently have of the serious state of general aviation at present 
Following information presented to us by  Mr Chris  Smith, I would like to correct two allegations made in our report which concerned: 
availability of departmental information to the various industry associations, and 
consultation between the department and the industries on matters of policy and operations expenditure. 
We were satisfied by  Mr Smith  that the various associations have been given a free flow of information by the department and have been consulted by the department on the majority of matters which would affect their operation. 
Regrettably our inaccurate assertions indicate that of recent months there may have been a breakdown in the flow of information between these bodies and their members, which we will promptly undertake to rectify, inasmuch as we are able. 
As we now understand the Minister and his Department not to be insensitive to the serious predicament which faces general aviation, we as private pilots hold greater hope for fair and lenient treatment under the Minister's policy. 
However, we feel we should reiterate some of the points made in our report and which we still maintain are fundamental to our case. 
We believe that the Australian Government has a basic national responsibility to provide an airways system for the purposes of intrastate, interstate and international communication, national defence and national emergency. 
We also believe that general aviation is not responsible to pay for the magnitude of systems and personnel required by the above services and partially brought about by the twoairline policy. 
If the 'user pays ' philosophy is to be employed then we see no responsibility to meet the cost of services and facilities which we are unequipped and unauthorized to use. 
Finally, we would point out that any increase in charges will, in proportion to the magnitude of increase, reduce the number of general aviation users, which will be counterproductive to your aims. 
Having made these points I would like to conclude by again expressing appreciation for our recent meeting and extending an invitation to the Minister to meet with us, either on this subject or just socially, when next he is in Adelaide. 
Yours faithfully, W.J.MEEKE President 
-I thank the Committee. The next point that the honourable member for Gippsland raised concerned the cost of aviation today. I do not know whether the honourable member can live with the losses which are being incurred and the degree of subsidy that is being poured into the aviation industry today by this Government, as those funds were by former governments. If the honourable member can live with that, I am pleased to hear that he can. But I cannot live with it. I do not intend to; neither does this Government. I would like honourable members to realise that in 1973- 74 aviation in Australia was subsidised by the general taxpayer to the tune of $65. 8m. In 1974- 75, notwithstanding the fact that this Government had introduced some new increases in air navigation charges, increased rentals and taken other similar action, the Government still had to subsidise the industry to the extent of $80.5m. 
Let me give honourable members the fact of this matter. Without going into all the detail, in 1973-74, costs were $ 140.86m. Revenue in that year was $74.99 lm. In 1974-75, costs were $ 173.605m while revenue was $93.049m. Honourable members can see from those figures the great amount of money that has been poured into the aviation industry by this Governmentthat is, by the taxpayers as a whole. We do not propose to go on putting that sort of money into this industry. There has to be a day of reckoning and the day of reckoning, I believe, has arrived. We are trying to get the industry to be more realistic and more practical in its approach to the problem. There is a great deal of underutilisation of aircraft in general aviation. Everyone wants to be like Ansett Airlines of Australia. I do not blame them for trying to be. But those in general aviation must face up to the facts and to the costs of the industry in which they are engaged; otherwise we wm continue to subsidise and subsidise. 
The honourable member for Gippsland asked what we were going to do about the situation and how we would increase the recovery from the industry to 70 per cent of those costs involved? In this respect, the 2 airlines agreement is something to which we have had recourse. When air navigation charges were increased from 10 per  cent to 1 5 per cent, it was agreed that that agreement would be reviewed in 1975 to determine how we were going in seeking to reach the point when 80 per cent of the cost of our investment in the aviation industry was recovered. Under that arrangement, this year the agreement is up for review and investigation. Further discussions and consultations on it will occur. These will take place at a later stage- within a month or so- and will be between the Government and the airlines. That is the position as far as we are concerned. 
Let me deal now with another point that the honourable member raised when he spoke about terminal rentals. Once again, I cannot understand the attitude of the honourable member for Gippsland. I will deal with the 2 major air terminals in Australia today. I mention first the Sydney international terminal. In 1973-74 in respect of that terminal, the Australian Government received by way of rental $532,551. The direct costs of operating that terminal were $2,16 1,377. Let me repeat those figures: The rental was $532,551 and the direct operating costs were $2,161,377. 
-Of course. But Medibank is something of value and assistance to every man, woman and child in the community. I exclude from that statement the doctors who instead of making millions out of it are making just a utile bit less than they were. But they are still well and truly doing aU right out of Medibank. Let us return to international air travel. We are speaking of a total number of international air travellers of 3 million, not 13 million. The honourable member for Cowper and the Opposition are more concerned with 3 million people than they are with 13 million people. We know that. The honourable member did not have to interject to tell us that in order to defend his friends. Let me return to the facts of life about the Sydney international air terminal. I said that the rental received amounted to $532,551. The cleaning bill for that year amounted to $525,908, and within 12 months it had risen to more than $750,000. So the amount received in rental was not even paying the costs of cleaning the terminal. Maintenance of the terminal amounted to $442,695, and electricity and gas cost $267,873. The sum of money that was being put into the Sydney international air terminal by the general taxpayers was an amount that no reasonable and sensible government could possibly provide. 
Representatives of the airlines came to see me to complain about this proposal to increase rentals. When I drew their attention to the degree of over-capacity of aeroplanes, for example, on the Pacific route and said that they could reduce fares by about $50 or $60 or even more per passenger, they were not interested in that aspect. They came to me to complain about increased air navigation charges and terminal rentals which represented about $9 per passenger. They were more concerned about saving that $9 for themselves than about saving $50 for the passengers. The figure of $50 was the absolute minimum amount that could have been saved by a cutback in aircraft frequency and capacity. But all that the airline representatives were interested in was complaining about what the Government was doing, about the way in which the Government was requiring the airlines to meet a fair and reasonable percentage of the operating costs, so that an air terminal such as the one at Sydney would not be subsidised to the degree that I have just outlined. 
The same position applies with the Melbourne airport. In 1973-74 direct operating costs amounted to $2,559,737, whereas the rental received totalled $1,366,846, which was a little more than the rental received at the Sydney air terminal. The same situation exists in Melbourne and Sydney. If honourable members wish to look at the facts and figures I have them here. They clearly set out the degree of subsidy that is being paid in relation to local airline terminals, which benefits the international and domestic airlines. So much for those points raised by the honourable member for Gippsland. 
He also raised the matter of urban public transport. I believe that this Government has an excellent record in what we have done in the urban transport area. Already we have approved of programs that will cost $207m, of which the Australian Government's contribution will be $138m. Let us look at the real facts concerning what has happened in the urban public transport area in the States during the last 3 years. In 1973- 74 we allocated $3 1.09m for urban public transport. Of that amount, the States spent $ 12.52m. I repeat those figures: In 1973-74 we allocated $31m and the States spent $12m. In 1974- 75 we allocated $66. 15m for urban public transport, plus $ lm for urban public transport in the provincial cities of Geelong, Wollongong and Newcastle, making a total of $67. 15m. Of that amount, the States spent $32.49m. 
Before the Budget for this year was drawn up we wanted to know from the States what they intended to do in the urban public transport area. 
We did not want to get into the situation where, like last year, an amount of $34m remained unspent at the end of the year. We conferred with the States. The answer which they gave us was that this year they could spend $43m on approved programs for urban public transport, and that included an amount of $2.5m for escalation in costs. The States decided that they could spend $43m on approved programs for urban public transport this year. An amount of $43m is provided in the Budget this year for the States to enable them to upgrade urban public transport. These are the facts; they are not the emotional garbage that was churned out by other speakers in this debate. 
I refer to our attitude on public transport. We have deferred for one year any further development of the Australian urban passenger train, but I have reached an agreement with the State Transport Ministers. At a meeting which I held with them in Sydney on last Friday week I informed them that I was prepared to continue with this Australian urban passenger train project. I said that we should take it to the stage of completing the design, putting it out for tender and evaluating the tenders so that money could be provided for the project in next year's Budget. That work has been done. With the Australian urban passenger train, we are trying to produce a carriage that will enable the train to have a rate of acceleration at least double that of trains that are in service in Australia today. It will be comparable with urban passenger trains in service overseas. This is the train that we have set out to develop, and I believe that with the co-operation of the State governments- I emphasise that point- we will be successful. The officers of the railway systems have worked particularly well with the officers of my Department That is why we have reached the present stage in the development of this project. 
I turn to rolling stock. Last year the Government approved of a program to build 500 new high speed bogie wagons. That will cost more than $10m. This year we have called tenders for the supply of another 800 wagons, which will cost between $20m and $30m. I am not at liberty to give honourable members any information about what tenders have been received at this point or what the amounts in the tenders are. This is what we have set out to do. This will provide additional rolling stock. The 2 lots of 500 and 800 wagons will be made available to the States under a leasing arrangement which has already been discussed and negotiated with them. That is in hand. In this way we will be able to assist the States. 
The honourable member for Gippsland wanted to know what we have done about oil tankers. Sure, I have not changed my view that Australia should be importing at least 40 per cent of its crude oil imports in Australian tankers. Unfortunately, we overlooked one point, and that is that the Trade Practices Act is applicable to Government instrumentalities and Government authorities, such as the Australian National Line. We have to introduce into this place an amendment to the Trade Practices Act so that we can do some of the things that we want to do with oil tankers. That is the situation with tankers. 
The honourable member for Gippsland also referred to granting leases to Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. Yes, we did that because we considered that the tenders which had been submitted were not satisfactory and we got a better proposition from Commonwealth Hostels. So much for the points raised by the honourable member for Gippsland. I think that I have dealt with all of them. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  raised a few points concerning shipyards. He referred to the fact that Adelaide Ship Construction Co. Pty Ltd and Walkers Ltd have closed their shipyards, and that Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has made an announcement about closing its shipyard. Why did not the honourable member come up with all the facts? The Adelaide Ship Construction Co. Pty Ltd closed shortly after we came into office. Any problems that it experienced were the fault of the honourable member for Gippsland, the former Minister for Transport. The owner of Adelaide Ship Construction Co. Pty Ltd was also a major shareholder in a shipping company that placed an order with the Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd at Whyalla which would have kept the shipyard of the Adelaide Ship Construction Co. Pty Ltd going. The honourable member for Griffith can not tell me that if the Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd had been fair dinkum, that if it had wanted to keep the shipyard of the Adelaide Ship Construction Co. Pty Ltd open, it could not have given the order for the construction of that ship to that shipyard, but it did not do so. 
As a result of the efforts of the former honourable member for Bass,  Mr Lance  Barnard, and my own efforts, Walkers had 3 ships on order when it decided to close down. Those 3 ships were valued at $8.25m. Walkers closed down for a number of reasons. One of those reasons was the continual flooding of the shipyard. Another was the fact that ship building had not been profitable for Walkers and that it could have put its money into other things. We made an offer to 
Walkers and to the Bjelke-Petersen Government. We were prepared to enter into a 3-way arrangement with them to keep the shipyard going. Walkers and Bjelke-Petersen were not prepared to be in it. They were not even prepared to lease the shipyard to us until the whole place had been completely wound down and some of the equipment, etc., had been sold. They were prepared to take up our offer some months later. 
As far as Evans Deakin Industries Ltd is concerned, let us get the facts. When I became the Minister for Transport after December 1972 Evans Deakin at that stage had one ship under construction, namely, the  Robert Miller.  We made sure- this Government, with the assistance of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and myself- that Evans Deakin got the contract for the  Santa Fe  drilling rig. We bent over backwards. We gave undertakings that in normal circumstances we would not have been prepared to give. We gave assurances. When Evans Deakin did not have the necessary financial backup to guarantee the completion of that rig we gave the guarantee for that. When that firm was not the lowest tenderer we made sure it got contracts. What has happened since then? Evans Deakin could have tendered for 26 projects involving 30 ships. It did not tender for them. Just recently when the firm made the announcement that it was to close down it could have tendered for three or four bulk ships valued at about $70m. Those tenders were put out by the Australian National Line. Evans Deakin did not even bother to tender for the ships. So do not tell me that it is fair dinkum. On top of that, Evans Deakin submitted tenders for 16 ships involving 12 different projects- there were a couple of doubles in the projects- but not on one occasion did it have the lowest tender. Do not tell me that it is fair dinkum. As far as we are concerned it is not. 
Both the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  raised the matter of Brisbane Airport and what the Liberal-Country Party Government intended to do. It is quite remarkable. For 23 years there was a Liberal-Country Party Government and a Liberal Minister for Civil Aviation who could have done but did not do anything about Brisbane Airport. In aU of those 23 years they did nothing about it. We had the international 'Igloo' which the previous Government knew should never have been allowed to stand. Yet it did not do anything to replace it. We have done something. The new terminal will be open before the end of this year at a cost of some $4.75m. We have done something about the road system around the airport- the antiquated road blocks and dead ends that one drives into trying to get out to the air terminal in peak periods. We declared as export roads the access roads to the airport and we have provided the money so that those roads can be upgraded and so that people can gain access to Brisbane Airport. 
As far as noise levels are concerned, I am astounded that the honourable member for Griffith talked about aircraft being more noisy today than they were a few years ago when the LiberalCountry Party Government was in office. The facts of the matter are that aircraft are much quieter today than they were even two or three years ago. So there is much less noise from aircraft today. The honourable member for Griffith was concerned about the Flying Doctor Service and suggested that the increased air navigation charges are putting the Flying Doctor Service out of business. They are not. Given average use of an aeroplane- I am talking in terms of general aviation now- air navigation charges at present do not exceed more than 2 per cent to 4 per cent of its running costs. I emphasise that- between 2 per cent and 4 per cent. In some cases where an aircraft is not used to its maximum the percentage could be as high as 6 per cent. But the average percentage would be between 2 per cent and 4 per cent. Fuel costs represent about 20 per cent, engineering costs about 34 per cent, and interest and depreciation as much as 22 per cent of the cost of operating an aircraft. That is the real answer why general aviation and the Flying Doctor Service are in trouble today, not because of air navigation charges. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  made reference to the Australian National Line and asked why the Government did not subsidise ANL services to the Northern Territory as it did the Tasmanian services. It must be interesting for the people in Tasmania to hear what the honourable member for the Northern Territory has to say about that. When the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  went to Tasmania a meeting he held was attended by about 25 people. It is no wonder that Tasmania will not wear the National Country Party in any circumstances. The real fact of the matter is that the honourable member for the Northern Territory is obviously critical of the $4.9m we are providing to subsidise shipping services to Tasmania. 
The honourable member was critical of it and was complaining about it. He asked why this $4.9m was provided in the Estimates. For the honourable member's information, last year the ANL lost $ 1.32m on the Darwin service plus $500,000 for nonoperational reasons- strikes and other matters such as that. I say to the honourable member that the Darwin services arc being subsidised to the extent of $ 1.82m, so we are doing something about that service. We realise that there is a problem. We could have increased the charges much more than we did. Unfortunately we had to increase the charges because our costs were increased and we had to do something practical about it. Notwithstanding those facts, Northern Territory services are still being subsidised to the extent of $ 1.82m by way of direct subsidy or by way of carrying the losses. I believe I have dealt with the points raised by the various speakers from the Opposition. I thank the honourable members from the Government side who brought out other points concerning their electorates. 
For the information of honourable members I present financial statements relating to Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2586 which appeared in  Hansard,  5 June 1975, page 3545. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2789 which appeared in  Hansard,  5 June 1975, page 3546. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Grants to Universities are made as and when required for specific research projects. The grants are, in effect, payment for work undertaken and performed by Universities on behalf of the Department and are, therefore, nonrepayable. 
Financial assistance is provided annually to subsidise the operation of the Australian Shippers" Council. 
Secretariat grants are made to the Royal Federation of Aero Clubs of Australia and the General Aviation Association (Australia). They are non-repayable. 
A special gliding grant is made to the Gliding Federation of Australia mainly to reimburse the Federation pan of its costs arising from its responsibilities under the Air Navigation Regulations. This grant is non-repayable. 
None. 
Developmental air services subsidies are paid to support financially uneconomic air services under prescribed conditions. 
Financial assistance is made available to registered Australian shipbuilding yards in accordance with the provisions of the Ship Construction Bounty Act 1975. 
Non-repayable grants of 50 per cent of the cost of approved maintenance works are made on licensed aerodromes owned or operated by private companies or individuals and used by regular public transport services. 
The Australian Shippers' Council is advised of the amount of money provided when the matter has been determined by Parliament. 
The availability of assistance to Australian shipbuilders was advertised in the Australian national press in April, 1974. Copies of the POliCY Statement on Shipbuilding issued by the Australian Government in December, 1973 are provided to representatives of the shipbuilding industry as required. 
The Department of Transport is at present preparing a brochure which will outline the Government's shipbuilding assistance arrangements. These brochures will be available for circulation to the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
Aerodrome Maintenance Grants are notified by means of the Department of Transport's Aerodrome Local Ownership Information Booklet and by 'correspondence to and direct contact with all aerodrome owners/operators. 
Other grants or subsidies are generally announced through a press release or by direct contact with the organization concerned. 
Because of the diverse nature of the activities involved and the specific liaison maintained by the Department I believe the arrangements I have outlined above should be continued. 
Complementary information is available in the handbook on Australian Government financial assistance available to local governments, voluntary organizations and community groups, which is produced by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The domestic airlines do not make continuous checks comparing provision of non-smoking seats in Australian aircraft with those provided in aircraft by overseas domestic airlines. Their main efforts are directed towards ascertaining the requirement of the Australian air traveller. This is done through the careful monitoring of reports by booking clerks and hostesses on expressed passenger preferences, and evaluation of written correspondence from the travelling public. It is interesting to note that passenger complaints arise from both smokers and non-smokers. Currently around 30 per cent of seats are allocated as non-smoking seats, which, as far as can be ascertained, is comparable to general airline practice throughout the world. 
It is true that the first row of seats in the first class section of jet aircraft is allocated to smokers. This is done to maintain flexibility in seating arrangements. For instance, if only two rows of seats are required for first class passengers then smokers and non-smokers are provided for equally. However, if all the front seats were designated non-smoking then the situation could arise where first class passengers wishing to smoke could not do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for some significant advances in the conduct of our sea-going industry. Most of these advances are being made on our initiatives, although at least one- that concerned with ship owners liability- should have been made long ago. The International Convention on the Limitation of Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships was made in Brussels in 1957. It came into force internationally in 1968 and could and should have been implemented here as quickly as possible thereafter. It is necessary to allow ship owners a limitation system, at the least for the practical reason that they need some defined level to which they can insure. But, up to the present, the limitation levels and the system have been those established in the old British Merchant Shipping Acts of 1894 and 1900. One of the thoroughly objectionable aspects of that existing law is that an owner may limit his liability in respect of his own crew members. The 1957 Convention allows for a signatory state to exclude such action and this is one of the reasons- perhaps the most important reasonwhy that Convention should have been applied in Australia years ago. This Bill,  Mr Speaker,  seeks to apply it. 
When we came to Government, and I came to the Transport portfolio, I said that I was not satisfied with many aspects of marine safety. My views were tragically supported by the loss of the vessel  Blythe Star  and the subsequent loss of life. My Department, with the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy, conducted a most diligent and exhaustive search for survivors, but were terribly handicapped by having no knowledge of the vessel's precise voyage intentions and by the fact that no requirement existed for vessels to report position during the course of voyages. What I found after this occurrence was that my Department had for some time been trying to arouse interest in a ship movement reporting scheme, but without any real success. I found also that someone had very clearly underestimated the co-operation that could easily be obtained from shipping companies. I had no difficulty in getting co-operation, and the ship reporting system which, by this Bill, is to be translated into law, has been operating on a voluntary basis for the best part of two years. 
I know that I am, at this introductory stage, anticipating my more precise exposition of the several measures which this Bill proposes. What I want to emphasise, however, is the great, the vital importance of these proposed amendments. Even now, I do not say that this Bill represents the last word on the Navigation Act. It will adjust some anomalies. It will bring further amelioration to the seafarer's lot. It will realise upon several of our significant safety initiatives. But more does remain to be done. The Navigation Act, and all of the administration it enables, has for too many years been viewed with indifference. This Bill, important and far-reaching as it is, is but the first tangible expression of our determination to make up for those years of indifference. 
Coming now to that more precise exposition of the several measures in this Bill, I should explain that I shall deal with these by groups, and in the order in which these are treated both in the Bill itself and in the comprehensive explanatory notes which I have circulated. The first group to which I shall refer are those amendments which deal with vessels and other structures engaged in the off-shore industry, in activities associated with exploring or exploiting the natural resources of the continental shelf of Australia, or the sea bed of the Australian coastal sea. In the Bill, these terms are given the same meaning as in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, and the provisions of the Bill relating to the off-shore industry are therefore placed on the same constitutional basis as the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. 
The Bill draws a distinction between the small craft that service oil rigs, etc., and seismic and hydrographic survey vessels on the one hand and the large oil drilling rigs, derrick barges and mineral recovery vessels on the other. The vessels that fall into the first of these two categories are referred to in the Bill as 'off-shore industry vessels'. Those falling into the latter category are termed 'off-shore industry mobile units'. The Bill applies the Act to all vessels that engage in our off-shore industry irrespective of where they are registered. I think 1 should underline the words 'irrespective of where they are registered' because they are important, having in mind some of the accidents which have occurred. It makes consequential amendments in a considerable number of the sections of the Act to deal with the special procedures that have been adopted in this industry. For example, the traditional 'articles of agreement' which are entered into between the seamen and the master will be augmented by the new concept of 'contract of sea service' which provides for an agreement between the seamen and the employer to serve on any vessel under the control of the employer. This concept has been in use in the industry for some time and has proved eminently satisfactory to all parties. 
In respect of off-shore industry mobile units the Bill makes provision for special safety and other marine or navigation-type requirements to be imposed by regulation or direction on all such craft operating in the off-shore area. I should explain that such requirements- that is, those that are made pursuant to the Navigation Act- will not go to the techniques and the working of the craft in the exploration or mining senses. But because the craft are at sea, it is essential that thensafety, and the safety of the people on board, from the hazards of the sea be provided for. A provision is included to ensure that such regulations or directions do not have effect to the extent that they are inconsistent with the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and regulations or directions thereunder. This is designed to take account of the present obligations under the offshore petroleum agreement entered into with the States not to alter the scheme of legislation set forth in that agreement. 
Another of the main alterations which this Bill introduces is in respect of visiting British ships. Part II of the Act deals with crewing matters and, until recently, was in line with similar provisions in the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act, with both laws applied to a visiting British ship whilst in Australia. The United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act has been very substantially changed and it would create technical problems for the master and crew of a ship and the staffs of Mercantile Marine Offices, who administer the relevant provisions of the Act, if the Australian law were to continue to apply to such vessels. The Bill makes the necessary adjustments in this regard. These are explained in the notes which I have circulated, under the heading: 'Clause 7'. The present anomaly dates from 1973, when the relevant United Kingdom legislation came into force. The legislative adjustment appears to be somewhat overdue, but the practicabilities have been cared for by an Order in Council under section 422a of the Act. 
I referred in my opening remarks to a vital aspect of the Bill- that is, that it gives legal effect to the ship movement reporting scheme, which was introduced following the loss of the vessel Blythe Star, and which has been operating on a voluntary basis for some time. The scheme ensures that positive action is taken to search for a ship in the Australian search and rescue area if more than 24 hours have elapsed since the ship last indicated that all was well. It will also, in the event of a ship being in distress, enable the Marine Operations Centre of my Department to know immediately what ships are in the area and which of these would be best suited to assist in the emergency. In addition to the safety improvements, the provisions will bring about a significant saving of search and rescue resources by providing a datum on which to concentrate a search in the event of a vessel being overdue. 
To my knowledge no such legislation exists anywhere else in the world. Information about the system has been circulated to members of the Inter-governmental Maritime Consultative Organization, where it has aroused considerable interest. In addition, Australia has proposed to IMCO that a uniform ship movement reporting system should be an integral part of any internationally-agreed search and rescue plan. Details of how the scheme works in practice are given in the notes on clause 68 of the Bill, which are included in the explanatory notes I have circulated. I do not refrain from expressing the Government's pride in the system. In other directions we are intent on aiming for total safety of life at sea- that is our target, and always will be. But we have to recognise that for all our striving to that end we may not reach it- accidents at sea can still occur. Against that misfortune we are determined that no time will be lost in rescuing seafarers subjected to accident. We are confident that what we are doing here is the prototype for a world-wide system to deprive the sea of victims of its dangers. 
The Bill also allows Australia to give effect to 2 international conventions, the texts of which are set out in the first and second Schedules to the Bill. The first of these is the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972, which will be given effect to on the widest possible basis by clause 67 of the Bill. This Convention is expected to come into operation, internationally, towards the end of next year and Australia must be in a position to sign it before that time. I have already made some reference to the second convention- the International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships, 1957, which is given effect to by clause 74 of the Bill. Although this Convention came into force internationally in 1968, the law in Australia, in relation to the limitation of shipowners' liability, is still the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Acts of 1894 and 1900. 
One of the main practical effects of clause 74 is to increase the amounts to which a shipowner will be able to limit his liability, unless he is held to be actually at fault himself, in respect of all claims arising out of specified occurrences to which the Convention applies. The existing low limits of about $28 per ton in the case of personal claims and $15 per ton in the case of property claims are to be increased to the equivalent of the Convention limits- about $175 and $56 per ton respectively. I should say here that even these new limits are, in my opinion- and indeed I am supported by a body of world opinion- still far too low. We have been actively participating in an international review of the 1957 Convention and will continue to press for liability limits which are realistic in the context of present values. 
In giving effect to this Convention Australia, like the United Kingdom and a number of the European shipping countries, will exercise the option provided for in the Protocol of Signature to exclude the application of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph ( 1) of article 1 of the Convention. This in effect means that shipowners will have unlimited liability in respect of damage to harbour works, and for wreck removal. At the same time as Australia gives effect to this Convention it will absolve shipowners from liability in respect of certain property claims set out in the new section 338 to be inserted in the Navigation Act. As I have already remarked, however, by virtue of new section 59A shipowners will be prevented from limiting their liability in respect of claims by crew members. I think the only remarkable thing about that measure is that an owner's ability to invoke limitation in respect of his own crew members has been allowed to persist for so long. 
On the subject of international conventions, the Bill also repeals or revises certain provisions that were contrary to 2 International Labour Organisation conventions to which Australia is already a signatory. Thus, although it does not permit us to sign any further ILO maritime conventions, it removes sections repugnant to the Conventions on Forced Labour and on Seamen's Articles of Agreement. 
Another group of amendments being inserted by the Bill, relating to certificates of competency for ships' officers and masters, springs from our initiatives for recognising modern advances in maritime transport. These are being inserted to provide for the new certificate structure which the Department of Transport has been developing over recent months in full co-operation with all the unions concerned, with owners, and State marine authorities. The introduction of these new developments will be timed to fit in as closely as possible with the new training that will be provided by the Australian Maritime College, which the Government is in the process of establishing. My colleague, the Minister for Education, has already introduced legislation to enable establishment of the College. As the Prime Minister announced not long ago, the College will be set up in Launceston, and will provide for the most modern professional education of the several categories of seafarer. This will be one of the most important and far-reaching steps yet taken in recognition of modern advances in maritime transport. It is a step, alongside this new certificate structure, which has the approbation of all the sections of the industry. Some machinery amendments have been made to the manning provisions to facilitate the introduction of the new certificate structure. 
The remaining amendments of the Bill fall generally under the heading of 'miscellaneous' and comprise a variety of amendments which it is opportune to make in this Bill. Some of these are of a purely drafting or machinery nature and are set out principally in Schedule 7. Others, however, are of more importance, but because of the notes that have been circulated and which explain the amendments in some detail, I shall refer to only one or two of them, in a very brief way. One of these amendments is to extend the reference in the Act to the owner of a vessel to include a reference to the operator, except in a few special circumstances. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that where a duty or liability is imposed by the Act on the owner, and in cases where the owner is only remotely concerned with the operations of the ship, for example, if he has executed a bare-boat charter, then responsibility for ensuring that that duty or liability is discharged is imposed on the person who is directly concerned with the relevant operations, as well as on the owner. Conversely, a benefit conferred on the owner will also, in appropriate cases, be available to the operator. 
Another amendment is to provide for the Minister to make orders in relation to detailed technical requirements to be applied under the Act, so that such requirements can be quickly implemented, and varied without delay, in the light of casualties, failure investigations or technical developments. As an example of what is intended, it may be recalled that, after some recent marine casualties, I announced that I would introduce a requirement for every ship to carry an approved operations manual. Ships vary greatly in their lay-out, their construction, their characteristics, and it is simply not possible to embrace by regulation every safety requirement necessary on every individual ship. It is essential therefore that for every vessel there be prepared a detailed operations manual, to be amended of course in the light of experience, and approved by ministerial order, quite rapidly. 
In the Bill, apart from prescribing penalties at appropriate levels for newly created offences, the opportunity has been taken, where sections are otherwise amended, to update certain maximum monetary penalties for existing offences against provisions of the Act and regulations and to increase some general penalties. Other penalties will need to be brought into line at a later date. However, and as I have remarked already, this Bill does not purport to be a general revision of the Navigation Act. That will follow when the Government has received the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry, which is at present critically examining the basic concepts contained in the Navigation Act. Our maritime trade, and our initiatives for securing a proper place for Australian ships in Australia's trade, are of such manifest national importance that we cannot continue the previous indifference towards our maritime law. I trust that the explanatory notes on the various clauses, which I have circulated, will assist honourable members to appreciate the significance of the amendments being made by this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is not available within my Department. However, I am advised by the Victorian Oatgrowers Pool and Marketing Co. Ltd in the following terms: 
The wheat referred to was sold to a number of different buyers at a number of overseas destinations. It was shipped by parcel freight, part and full charters. The number of vessels used during the period was 25 but the names of the ships used is a matter of commercial confidentiality as this could lead to the disclosure of the buyers names. 
(a) The names of charterers are also a matter of commercial confidentiality. However, vessels for wheat (or any other grain) may be chartered by the buyer, shipper or the original supplier depending on the terms of sale (that is to say wheat may be sold ex silos, on wharf, f.o.b. or c.i.f). Each charterer negotiates his own terms with the owners of the vessel and depending on the negotiations a chartering commission may be or may not be payable to the charterer. 
The Victorian Oatgrowers Pool and Marketing Co. Ltd received $13,453.71 in chartering commission as a result of their chartering negotiations for one full and three part wheat cargoes which are the only vessels for wheat in the said period for which the Company was entitled to chartering commission. 
See answer to (2) (b). 
The Victorian Oatgrowers Pool was not entitled to despatch money in any of the vessels used for wheat in the relevant period. 
The Victorian Oatgrowers Pool was not liable to pay demurrage for any of these ships. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$115,000. 
Staff vacancies; Tenders; Business concessions; Notices to Mariners. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
. The cost to the Government of the programs has been as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council for the year ended  30  June 1975. 
For the information of honourable members I present two reports entitled 'An Exploratory Study of Canberra-Goulburn Airport' and 'An International Airport in the Canberra-Goulburn Region to Serve the City of Sydney- Assessment of Likely Effects on the Environment'. 
Due to the limited number available reference copies of these reports have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
-in reply-I did not intend to speak in reply to this debate because all the points brought up, firstly by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  were adequately answered in my second reading speech when dealing with limitations. Those matters have all been spelled out. The limitation of liability of the owners of sea-going ships has been spelled out in the second reading speech. Obviously the honourable member for Gippsland read that speech because he quoted extensively from it. All those things were spelled out so why should I go through the exercise of explaining them again and again? The Australian maritime industry should have had this legislation amended long ago because the convention was ratified in 1968. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  talked a heap of garbage with regard to the States. He had nothing to say and he just warbled and warbled on about the lack of consultation between the Australian Government and the States and how we have to be cooperative with them. I have just checked with some officials of my Department and they advise me that we sent copies of the second reading speech and of the legislation to each of the States. I have received no response from them. None of them have yet - 
-The honourable member for Gippsland should not be too anxious to interject. He should wait until I have finished my remarks. 
-I know that it is late. I sent copies of the speech and the legislation to the States. I have had no response from them. They have not written to me objecting to any parts of the legislation they have not written to the Department objecting to any parts of the legislation. The honourable member talked about all these shocking complaints by the States. I have not received any. We have had consultations with them; we have used the avenues of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, and the Australian Association of Port and Marine Authorities. During the last meeting that I attended of the Authority, there were discussions on this matter. Certainly there was no agreement and the whole position is that it is not possible to get any agreement from the States, in particular, Victoria. Victoria is the most obstructionist State Government in this country. 
The honourable member talks about cooperating with the State but we can get no cooperation from Queensland, New South Wales or Victoria in particular. We did have consultation with them and on the terms of this Bill we believe that we have an understanding and agreement with the West Australian Government. So when the honourable member for Stirling speaks in the vein in which he spoke here tonight, it is absolute garbage. He did not know what he was talking about. If the States have had any objections to this legislation, they certainly have not written to me. They certainly have not corresponded with my Department. They certainly have not indicated to me in any way that they objected to the legislation. These are the facts and not the garbage that we have had to put up with from the honourable member for Stirling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The honourable member's letter was answered on 1 5 October 1975. 
-There is no evidence that the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger,  has in any way involved himself personally. The United States, through the normal diplomatic channels, has raised the matter of our air navigation charges, alleging discrimination against its international carrier, Pan American World Airways Inc. As far as we are concerned there has been a formal request for consultation which will take place later this year. There is no foundation for the suggestion that I have seen in newspapers of late that a levy has been imposed on Qantas Airways Ltd by the United States Government, or for that matter that I have called for discussions. The problem of air navigation charges is world wide with the increase that is taking place in the cost of constructing airports and providing all of the sophisticated machinery and facilities that are now necessary to cope with the large aircraft using airports today. 
The British Government, I believe, has increased charges recently by about 35 per cent. There has been a complaint, I believe, by the United States Government to the United Kingdom Government against this increase, once again alleging discrimination. We could go on for quite some considerable time about the question of whether we are charging fair and reasonable air navigation charges. It might be interesting to see the result if the airlines decided to reduce the number of flight frequencies to the point that people would use the aircraft that are available. I believe that the American national flag carrier Pan Am has been operating on the Pacific route with a load factor of something like 40 per cent. If it were to cut back its flight frequencies more people would be on board the aircraft in use and it could then aim for a more reasonable price structure than exists at the present time. I have with me a table which clearly sets out landing charges and related charges imposed on airlines operating in a number of countries. I ask the Opposition to give me leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. It clearly sets out the true position as far as air navigation charges are concerned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled:  'The Economics of an Australian Landbridge'.  Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The House will recall that in my second reading speech delivered last April I specified in some detail the need for, and the proposed operations of, the Inter-State Commission. Honourable members will be aware that the Bill for the reestablishment of the Commission has been before this Parliament since that time. I wish to announce that, in the light of deliberations after the Bill was introduced into this Parliament, the Government has decided to withdraw clauses 13 and 17 of the Bill. Also, following negotiations between the Honourable P. J. Nixon, the honourable member for Gippsland, and spokesman for the Opposition on transport matters, and myself, on behalf of the Government, certain further amendments to the Bill, seventeen in number, have been agreed to. These amendments were moved by the Opposition in the Senate and were agreed to by the Government. These are the amendments now before honourable members. I commend them for approval. 
I am pleased to be able to record these developments which will lead to the reappearance of this Commission after so many years to work in the field of interstate transport. The Bill, as amended, will result in the reestablishment of an Inter-State Commission with strong powers of investigation in matters relating to interstate transport. The Government expects the Commission to make a positive contribution to actions by this Parliament in promoting the development of Australia's transport system. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
Very briefly in reply I want to clarify a few points raised by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  First and foremost, the Senate had nothing whatever to do with the amendments that we are accepting here this morning. The Senate was in a position to obstruct and to carry out the role that it has carried out so well during the term of office of this Government- the role of obstructing important national legislation. The amendments were amendments agreed to by the honourable member for Gippsland and me during an exchange of opinions. He put up propositions that were looked at, that were amended and that with the assistance of the parliamentary draftsman were knocked into shape and put into the correct parliamentary form. Quite  frankly  I thank the honourable member for Gippsland for his assistance and for the co-operative manner in which he has worked with me and my officers in putting this Bill together. I also want to thank the officers of my Department for the manner in which they have worked on the amendments to this Bill and on the original drafting. Let us get the picture clear. I think the honourable member for Gippsland wants as much as I do an interstate commission that will be in a position to investigate transport because he realises that it will be to the advantage of this country and because it should never have been allowed to lapse in the manner in which it did during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. That is the position. We picked up the responsibilities  of  government to carry out an investigation into transport. We brought in the initial Bill. It was a wide-ranging Bill. That is the way in which it should have been drafted. That is the Bill that should have been brought into this Parliament and carried by this Parliament. But if we cannot reach an agreement with the Opposition, which has the numbers in another place and which has deliberately set out to obstruct legislation, we have to achieve the next best thing, and this is the next best thing. 
We still have a transport commission- an interstate commission- which will be able to investigate transport to the degree which this Government wants. As I said, we would have liked to go a bit further. We could not, so we have what we want- an interstate commission to investigate and report to the Parliament on transport. It will be of great value and assistance to transport in this country, whether it is used by this Government or some future government. Reference was made to  Mr Nimmo  's report into transport charges to and from Tasmania. I might even have a look to see whether we will ask the interstate commission to carry out an investigation because I do not want to see  Mr Nimmo  carry on his investigation into the future and never bring down a report, like the inquiry into repatriation which is an absolute disgrace. So I agree with that part of what the honourable member for Gippsland had to say. 
I will consider what he had to say about appointments. Let me make one thing very clear. The honourable member for Gippsland made some caustic remarks about trade union representatives whom I have appointed to various commissions for which I am responsible. Honourable members can rest assured that I intend to continue appointing trade unionists to all these commissions. Let us have a look at the people whom I have appointed. Let the honourable member for Gippsland or any other member of the Opposition take to task any one of those men who have been appointed. They are all men with the highest credentials and integrity that have been appointed to these positions. Such people will continue to be appointed to commissions. We appointed another such person last Monday. That appointment will be announced at some later stage. Have a look at the people we have put on commissions. We have set out to put people on commissions who can contribute something. All this garbage that is tossed out from time to time about Party hacks, about jobs for the boys, is absolute distortion and lies because all the people that we have put on to these various commissions are men who are able to make a contribution. 
Invariably so many of the people who were appointed by our predecessors have been left on commissions. None of them have been maliciously dismissed. We brought in an age retirement requirement which provides that when the people on these commissions reach age 65 they are not reappointed. I think that is the time when everyone should retire. The people who replace the men who retire are men of great integrity who can bring something to the job. When the honourable member for Gippsland stoops to those tactics of questioning the integrity of the people whom we appoint to these commissions he really besmirches the case he presents and the co-operation he extended to me in redrafting these Bills. We have an Inter-State Commission that is practical, that will work. We have an Australian National Airlines Commission Bill that was amended after negotiation and discussion with him and other members of the Opposition and that does work. It does not go as far as it should go. It allows monstrous inquiries like the one that was conducted in Western Australia into TAA's entry into services there. It was a politically loaded inquiry. 
-Of course it was a politically loaded inquiry.  (Quorum formed)  All that the amendments to the Australian National Airlines Commission Bill did was stop the people of Western Australia from getting cheap air travel. That is all that was done by the setting up of a phoney commission by a phoney government. I thank the honourable member for Gippsland again for his co-operation with the officers of my Department. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  The Road Accident Situation in Australia in 197  Owing to the limited number available at this time, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question 3 1 10 (Hansard, 1 October 1975, page 1598). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) See the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media on 4 December 1 974 (Hansard, page 4590). 
-In recent weeks there has been a lot of innuendoes of dishonesty and malpractice on the part of various Ministers, who, it has been alleged, have done all sorts of things, but up to this point no member of the Opposition has been prepared to spell out in detail just what has taken place. As the Prime Minister said here a short time ago in reply to a question about  Mr Khemlani,  it has all been innuendo. The honourable member has asked me about the procedure concerning ladies launching ships and what sort of gift they receive. I have been associated with ship building as a worker in the industry, as the shadow Minister for Transport and as the Minister for about 30 years. My understanding is that the usual practice has been to invite the launching lady to accept a gift of about $300. 
-A gift to the value of about $300. Sometimes it might be $200 or $400. I understand that when the honourable member for New England was the Minister for Shipping and Transport his wife launched the  Australian Endeavour  in Germany and she received a diamond and sapphire necklace valued at $10,000. In Sweden at the launching of the  Allunga-  these were both Australian National Line ships- she received a diamond bracelet valued at $6,000. The position is that when a Minister's wife is launching a ship, he and his wife are always consulted about the extent of the gift and they are asked to suggest the sort of gift they would like. My wife has been asked to launch a number of ships and in fact she is launching one next Saturday week. They are always asked and they are always told the approximate value of the gift. I think that the average value has been about $300. The acceptance of 2 nice old handouts worth about $10,000 and $6,000 is a bit like the honourable member's attitude to the misuse of Avis cars, which cost the Australian taxpayer about $1,500 and which even to this point, although the Minister for Administrative Services - 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. I also claim that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has misled the Parliament. 
-I will - 

 -Mr Speaker, I - 
-I did not hear what the honourable member for Hotham said. Does the honourable member for New England, who is interjecting, claim that the honourable member for Hotham - 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for New England. I quote from a newspaper article in the Albury  Border Morning Mail  of Tuesday, 8 June 1971. The article is headed: 'They said "thank you" with $16,000 in gems' and reads: 

 Mrs Rosemary Sinclair, wife of the former Minister for Transport and Shipping, said in Albury yesterday she had received gifts of jewellery totalling - 

 -Mr Speaker, the honourable member for New England was suggesting that I had misled the Parliament. 

 -Mr Speaker, with the concurrence of honourable members I shall table the document. I shall incorporate it in  Hansard  if honourable members opposite want me to do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to appropriate funds for payment to the States to cover the Australian Government share of cost increases on projects already approved under the Urban Public Transport Agreement. The amount to be appropriated is $2.5m. This amount is in addition to $71.91m which was appropriated by the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 and $66.1 lm appropriated by the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974. This brings the total of Australian Government financial assistance available to the States to $ 140.5m for the improvement of public transport in our major cities. The Urban Public Transport Agreement provides for the Government to meet its share of cost increases. The Agreement provides not only for normal escalation through increases in material and labor costs but also for increases resulting from variations in the works of approved projects. The amount of $2. 5m will enable the Government to meet its obligations under the Agreement on projects which have either been completed or are due for completion in 1975-76. 
During this year's Budget preparations the Australian Government was forced to make some difficult decisions. We were placed in the position of cutting many of our worthwhile programs. Under these circumstances the Australian Government decided it would be unable to support the commencement of any new projects under the Urban Public Transport Agreement. An amount of $40.3m is included in the Budget Estimates to meet the Government's commitment to projects approved in the previous 2 years of the program. When added to the $2.5m for escalation this brings the total Budget allocation for this year to $42.8m. 
Before honourable members opposite start talking about cuts in the program, we should take a look at the facts of the matter. In 1973-74, the States spent $ 1 8.5m on the 1 973-74 program, our share of which was $ 12.3m. Because the enabling legislation had not been passed, no payments were able to be made in 1973-74 but the States showed their faith in responsible government by spending in anticipation of the Australian Government's eventually being allowed to pass the legislation which authorised the payment of its contributions. Last year the States spent $49.5m on approved projects in both the 1973-74 and 1974-75 programs and the Australian Government contributed $33m towards that expenditure. This year we have made available $42.8m for those programs, so there are no cuts to existing programs. 
The reason the legislation was held up in 1973-74, preventing payments from being made, was the double dissolution of Parliament in April 1974. I have some figures which indicate just how much the States have overestimated their capabilities to spend money in the early years of the program. In 1974-75 the Australian Government provided $67. lm, which included carryover from 1973-74, but the States were only able to attract grants of $45.3m. The Government's overriding aim is to improve the standard of living of the people of Australia. In a context where inflation and unemployment can threaten the standard of living of all Australians, the Government must look closely at the position of efficient economic management against its social role and seek an effective path between the two. The Government has chosen the most equitable path in this situation. Even without new funds being provided and with performance on some projects lagging, there will still be major steps forward in urban transport improvements this year. The Australian Government assistance of $42.8m will enable a number of major projects to proceed uninterrupted this year and several significant projects will be completed. 
In Sydney, the contract for the supply of 106 double-decker suburban rail cars when completed this financial year will have involved expenditure of more than $13m of Australian Government funds. The widening of the Glenbrook tunnel has been completed. In Melbourne there are 2 major rail upgrading projects due for completion: Duplication of the SunshineDeer Park West line and quadruplication of the South Kensington-Footscray line. These involve about $2m of Australian Government funds this year. This will bring the total of Australian Government expenditure when completed to over$5.5m. 
In Brisbane, sufficient funds have been allocated to enable the railway electrification program to continue at 5 times the rate of expenditure of last year. We have also provided sufficient funds for Queensland to continue construction of the Merivale Street railway bridge across the Brisbane River, a project which will cost $ 17m, two-thirds of which will be provided by the Australian Government. In Adelaide we will see the continuation of the Christie Downs railway extension and duplication project. In Perth, a number of projects have already been completed including the Adelaide Terrace bus lane and a bus transfer station at Rockingham. Bus transfer terminals at Kwinana and Innaloo will be completed this year. In Hobart, funds have been provided for the continuation of existing contracts for the purchase of 96 new buses at an approved cost of $3. 6m. These contracts should be completed in 1976-77 and involve an Australian Government contribution of $2.4m. In fact, in each State capital we will see either new railway rolling stock or buses, all with the financial assistance of this Government. 
In addition to financing the projects I have mentioned, we are considering proposals from the States to fund other significant projects this year from within the Budget allowance. At a special meeting of Transport and Road Ministers in Sydney on 29 August, I advised State Ministers that I would be prepared to consider such proposals. This will enable the States to re-assess their priorities in 1975-76 and will provide breathing space to enable them to catch up on those projects which have fallen behind. At the same time, the States will have the opportunity to re-allocate their share of 1975-76 funds to projects of particular significance, especially to rolling stock and bus acquisitions. I challenge honourable members opposite to say that they would have given more to the States for urban transport. Let them speak of their record, a record of 23 years in which not one cent was provided for urban transport improvement. The sorry state of urban transport in capital cities is a monument to their neglect. 
Our initiatives in the field of urban public transport are not restricted to financial assistance to the States for capital improvements. We have several other programs. Because of the additional planning burden placed on the States by the capital assistance program, the Government also decided that it was appropriate to assist the States on planning and research projects. This program was first introduced under the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Act 1974, under which $340,000 was paid to the States last year in respect to projects commenced in 1973-74. The most significant project initiated under this program was the inner city Bee Line Bus service in Adelaide. A 12-month demonstration of this line was undertaken and during this period the services now attracted a daily patronage of 4500 riders. This is certainly attracting people back to public transport. 
The research program is now incorporated under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 which appropriated $26m for payment to the States on roads and urban transport planning and research. Last year under this program we paid the States a total of $5.5 lm which was $ 1.80m going to New South Wales; $ 1.41m to Victoria; $0.55m to Queensland; $0.89m to South Australia; $0.7 lm to Western Australia; and $0.1 5m to Tasmania. This year we expect $ 10.72m to be paid to the States, which will be $4.23m to New South Wales; $2.73m to Victoria; $ 1.34m to Queensland; $1.1 5m to South Australia; $0.97m to Western Australia; and $0.30m to Tasmania. This program recognises the major need for more sophisticated planning and research into roads and urban transport. In this year's program, provision is made for the acquisition of an experimental electric bus to operate on the Bee Line service. 
As I foreshadowed in introducing the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974, the combining of roads and urban transport planning and research under the one piece of legislation was a forerunner to a combined capital assistance Bill. Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced at the June 1974 Premiers' Conference that we would be introducing legislation which would bring together capital assistance on roads and urban transport. The Prime Minister stated that it was proposed to legislate 18 months in advance of the legislation coming into operation in order to assist the States with their forward commitments. Unfortunately it is now not possible to meet this deadline and it will be the Autumn session of 1976 before the legislation is introduced. One factor that has contributed to this delay is the desire of the Australian Government to give all interested parties an opportunity to comment on the proposed arrangements. If meaningful comments are to be made, however, the basic information must be freely available. Consequently I will be releasing the Bureau of Transport Economics reports on resource allocation and on urban public transport investment and the Bureau of Roads report on road needs as soon as they become available. In addition, I will table and widely circulate a Green Paper which will examine the policy alternatives and administrative arrangements that could be adopted for the new legislation. 
Of course, my commitment to release these reports and papers assumes that funds are available to meet the cost of printing. In these incredible times that may well prove to be an unjustified assumption. Following the release of these documents, views will be sought from State and local governments, the transport industry and from users. The Australian Government sees this initiative as a further step in the development of co-operative planning arrangements with the States. It could be that the principle adopted in the current urban transport arrangements whereby the Australian Government is given representation on a State body concerned with the forward planning and development of policies relating to urban transport could be extended. Perhaps similar bodies concerned with planning and policies of transport outside urban areas could also be established. For our part I will be looking for means to provide for States contributions into the development of policies for the national roads network. 
Turning to the development of the Australian urban passenger train, honourable members will recall that in excercising Budget restraint we decided to defer proceeding to stage 3 of the project which provided for the design and construction of a prototype. At the 29 August meeting of Transport and Road Ministers, I explained that there would be no Australian Government funds to meet new commitments for the time being, but that funds had been provided to meet commitments that already existed. This project is another example of co-operation between the Australian and State governments. Consequently I proposed to the State Ministers that we should continue to co-operate throughout this period of financial restraints. This co-operation would enable the continuation of the project 'in house' without creating any new commitments prior to the commencement of stage 3.I am pleased to say that the State Ministers agreed to the continuation of support for the project. 
Another initiative aimed at improving urban public transport is the development of a standard urban passenger bus. Prompted by the number of different buses being purchased under the urban public transport improvement program and the substantial delays in the delivery of these buses, the Department of Transport along with State and private operators and unions, have examined the possibility of development of a standard bus specification. To date, 2 highly successful seminars have been held at which a draft specification was discussed. The seminars' recommendations were submitted to transport and roads Ministers and approved at their August meeting. Discussions are currently being broadened to include bus manufacturers and a further meeting has been arranged for 3 December. I expect the standard bus exercise to lead to the development of a more comfortable and technically improved urban passenger bus. This bus may prove to be less costly than continuing current practice of placing orders for buses overseas. That is another example of cooperation between the States, and industry as well, with this Government, co-operation for which we are grateful. 
As a complement to the Urban Public Transport Improvement Program, the February 1975 meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council resolved that my Department should organise a seminar on the marketing of urban transport. The prime objective of the seminar is to bring together public transport operators, representatives from consumer organisations and delegates from marketing organisations to examine methods that could be used to 'sell' public transport in Australian cities. About 100 people are expected to attend. The seminar was to be held in Melbourne 24-26 November. The deferment of consideration of the Appropriation Bills by the Senate, and the consequent uncertainty of the availability of funds to the Australian Government, has forced me to instruct my Department to postpone the seminar until 29-31 March 1976. 
-That is perfectly true. This is just another instance of blatant disregard for the administrative process by the Opposition in its unjustified and senseless action in falling to pass the 1975-76 Budget. 
In conclusion, there was a twofold basis for the Government's decision to limit new appropriations to $2. 5m for escalation and variations and to provide $40.30m out of funds already appropriated. On the one hand, States have been unable to spend the funds which had been made available to them; and on the other, there has been budgetary restraint. Notwithstanding budgetary restraint, we have offered States the opportunity to spend the allocated funds in thenbest interests. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide an additional $64m in Australian Government financial assistance to the States for road works in 1975-76. The Bill also increases the quota of matching expenditure which the States are required to make under the roads legislation approved by this Parliament in 1974. This increase in State quotas will equal in percentage terms the increase proposed in Australian Government grants. Finally the Bill will also amend the 1974 roads legislation to allow the States a slight but necessary additional measure of flexibility in transferring funds between the road categories specified in the legislation. 
The measure now before the Parliament amends 2 Acts, the National Roads Act 1974 and the Roads Grants Act 1974. Of the additional $64m to be provided by the Australian Government, $23m will go to national roads. The remaining $41m is to be made available for use by State governments in accordance with the Roads Grants Act 1974. Funds provided under the 1974 roads legislation cover both urban and rural roads and benefit both State and Local Governments. The total increase proposed for 1975-76 represents a rise of about 17.8 per cent over the previous year. This is in line with the overall increase in State works and housing programs accepted by the State Premiers at the June Premiers Conference. In view of the current budgetary situation it is an increase which I think even members of the Opposition will have to agree would be hard to better, unless of course they wanted to make irresponsible promises. 
The roads legislation enacted by the Australian Government in 1974 is a genuine attempt to allocate available funds to roads in accordance with needs rather than in accordance with the amount of pressure brought to bear by interest groups. For the first time the Australian Government has been placed in a position where it can ensure that roads are considered as part of our national transport network. We make no apology for insisting on a greater degree of control of Australian Government funds than was done previously. Road improvements should be compatible with other Government objectives as well as with the development of other transport modes. 
In spite of the generous provision for roads in the 1974 legislation, the real value of the 1975-76 program is now inadequate through the effects of cost increases. The roads industry has been beset by some high cost increases which could not be foreseen. Direct and indirect labour costs account for about 60 per cent of road costs. Some of the awards for major employment groups in the roads industry increased by as much as 33 per cent in a 12-month period. A major material component in road construction is bitumen which is derived from imported crude oil. At one stage the price of imported oil products increased by 80 per cent over a 12-month period. It is important to keep in mind also that Australian Government assistance for roads amounts to between 36 per cent and 40 per cent of the total roads program. 
We have taken a number of steps to counteract the effect of these very sharp increases. An extra $30m was provided directly for roads in 1974-75 following the discussions with the State Premiers in February this year and a part of a special unallocated grant of $40m which was agreed at that meeting was also used by State governments for road works. An analysis of Regional Employment Development scheme projects approved in 1974-75 showed that amounts of the order of $25m went to roads or related projects. Grants to local governments from the Grants Commission have been another significant boost. In 1974-75, rural local government councils received $30.6m from the Grants Commission, of which an estimated 70 per cent is understood to have gone to road works. In 1975-76, rural councils will receive $46.6m from the Grants Commission- an increase of 52 per cent- and it is expected that 70 per cent will again be used for roads. 
Therefore, it is beyond dispute' that the Australian Government is facing its responsibilities in this area. I regret to say that the same thing cannot be said, certainly with regard to rural local roads, in the case of a number of State governments. There has been a continual barrage of criticism by these State governments. But what they have been doing is evading their responsibilities by trying to make out that every slow-down or job lost in roads has been because of alleged cut backs on funds by the Australian Government. 
The Australian Government announces its allocation of funds for each category. But some States go to quite extraordinary lengths to avoid revealing their financial allocations, in particular, for roads in local government areas. 
-My word it is true. I have had some information. For example, in New South Wales the State Minister has revealed his Government's spending on rural local roads, and there the level was a low $1.4 million in 1974-75, compared to $ 16.87m allocated for rural local roads by the Australian Government. 
I am gravely concerned at prevailing State attitudes to road financing. National highways were mainly classified as rural arterial roads under the previous Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. When the Australian Government accepted full financial responsibility for national highways, very substantial amounts of State funds should have been released for other roads. This amount is estimated to be of the order of $80m in 1975-76. This includes an estimated $31m saving by New South Wales, $ 17.3m by Victoria, $12m by Queensland, $12m by South Australia, $6m by Western Australia and $4m by Tasmania. However, it would appear that State governments have been allocating these substantial funds almost exclusively to their own road authorities while local governments have been left to fend for themselves. 
In some States, there has been deliberate ma- .nipulation of road funds in a disgraceful effort to win cheap political advantage. For example in Queensland, prior to the State election late last year and again early this year, hundreds of men employed on road projects were either sacked or threatened with lay-offs because the Queensland Government withheld funds for local government and arterial roads. The Queensland Government claimed it was forced to do this because the Australian Government had not made available funds for roads. 
-I was able to prove conclusively at a meeting of the Queensland Local Government Association in Brisbane on 14 March attended by the Queensland Roads Minister as well as myself that in all but 2 cases claims by the Queensland Government on the Australian Treasury for funds for roadworks were settled within 7 days. Where there was a delay of more than 7 days, it was because the Queensland Government was claiming in excess of its pro rata monthly allocation. It is a pity that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  had not waited for the whole of the story. The trouble with the boys from the National Country Party is a very simple one and that is, that they are not prepared to face up to the facts of life 
Let us look at what is happening to State funding from another angle; that of State quotas. The Australian Government provided an additional $30m for 1974-75 with no corresponding requirements for States to increase their quotas. Naturally, there was no complaint from any of the States about this. But when I announced after the Budget that State quotas would be increased in proportion to the proposed Australian Government increase of $64m or 17.8 per cent the States claimed that they were being too rough. When I discussed this matter with State Roads Ministers, they strongly objected to any increase in their quotas. In other words, the Australian Government should increase its spending on roads, but the States should not be required to help shoulder the extra funds needed for roads. 
Would the Australian Government receive any thanks from the States if it agreed to wipe the increase in State quotas? On the basis of the extra $30m given in 1974-75, there is little to suggest that any thanks would be forthcoming. After the allocation of the $30m, without a proportionate increase required in State spending, the Australian Government was subjected to a continuous barrage of abuse from the States claiming that all their road construction and maintenance problems were the Australian Government's fault. They would not admit that the problem was their own failure to keep pace with increased costs as the Australian Government was making every effort to do with the funds it provided for roads. Before leaving this question of quotas, I would like to point out that when the Australian Government in mid 1974 decided to cut back road funds because of the overheated state of the economy, the States immediately asked that their quotas also be reduced. The Australian Government agreed readily to that request. 
Let me now speak to the main provisions of the Bill. It is divided into 3 parts of which Part I is Preliminary; Part II, or clauses 3 to 8, amends the National Roads Act; while Part III, clauses 9 to 16, amends the Roads Grants Act. The total increase in actual funds for each State for both Acts is as follows: 
New South Wales-$ 1 9.9m Victoria-$ 13.3m Queensland- $ 13.2m South Australia- $5.8m Western Australia- $8.8m Tasmania- $3.0m 
The detailed schedules, that is clause 8, for national roads categories, and clause 16, for the other roads categories, show how these State totals have been allocated between the various categories. With regard to national roads, clause 4 simply says that the additional amounts contained in the schedules in clause 8 of the Bill are to be added to the existing amounts in similar schedules of the existing Act. The $23m appropriated to national roads is allocated: $ 13.94m for the construction of national highways; $7.95m for the maintenance of national highways, and $1.1 lm for the construction and maintenance of export roads and major commercial roads. Similarly clauses 10 and 16 of Part III appropriate an additional $41m to be expended under the Roads Grants Act. The breakdown of expenditure is as follows: 
Construction of rural arterial roads and developmental roads $6.3 lm. 
Construction and maintenance of rural local roads $9.29m. 
Minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements $0.66m. 
Construction of urban arterial roads $ 1 9. 1 3m. Construction of urban local roads $4m. Construction of beef roads $ 1 .6 1 m. 
My original basis for discussion with State Ministers was for a pro rata allocation to all categories because inflation affects all categories proportionately. However, in some cases I have agreed to variations from pro rata. One consequence is that some categories in some States receive no increases. I emphasise that this is because of changes requested by State Ministers. Reasons advanced by the States for changes include unavoidable delays in planning and construction programs in the case of export and major commercial roads; the need for increased funds to maintain national highways; and the allocation of minor traffic engineering and road safety funds to other categories to maintain employment. 
Clause 15 increases State quotas in proportion to the increased Australian Government grants. Since the increased Australian Government grants are designed to meet cost increases, complementary increases are necessary on the part of the States if a reduction in the total road program is to be avoided, with consequential serious retrenchment of employees. Clauses 6 and 12 allow the States slightly more flexibility in seeking to transfer funds between different road categories within the year on the grounds of higher priority. The only ground for transfer at the present time under the existing Acts is the inability of the State to spend the funds appropriated to a category in that particular year. However, there may be a priority requirement to redirect a portion of the funds and the amendment meets this need. The amendment therefore allows the States to specify the amount to be varied. 
In conclusion, the Government is taking the steps necessary to avoid serious employment consequences. Rural areas would be particularly hard hit because the roads industry is one of the  bigger employers of labour and there are relatively few alternative employment opportunities. The current depressed level of rural incomes is of course already a serious problem in country areas. It is, in the view of this Government, essential therefore that the Parliament agree to the proposed increase in financial assistance to the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Since payments commenced in 1966-67, a total of SI 16,31 1.59 has been paid by Australian National Railways to employees suffering loss of hearing as a result of their employment with the Railways. 
During that period, the cost of supplying hearing aids to those employees where such aids were considered necessary was $1,1 17.32. 
-There was a holdup in granting William Holyman and Sons approval temporarily to import the  Wanaka.  Some time ago I drew the company's attention to the fact that it had entered into an agreement some years ago with former Ministers for Shipping and Transport going back to 21 November 1969 when it was given permission to import the  Mary Holyman.  The company gave an assurance to  Mr Sinclair,  when he was the Minister for Shipping and Transport, to  Mr Nixon  and later to myself. Finally we got an assurance out of the company that it would place an order for an Australian ship. Then I gave it permission to bring in the  Wanaka.  On 27 October I received a letter from  Mr K.  C. Holyman, the General Manager of the company, advising me that it was not the company's intention to proceed with the importation of the  Mary Holyman.  Since then I have had discussions with the Australian National Line which has informed me that it has sufficient tonnage available to service all the Tasmanian ports. 
Some months ago I arranged with the  Chairman  of the ANL to visit Tasmania and to talk to shippers there. They have a clear understanding as to what they will be exporting to the mainland and what tonnage will be required. We gave them an assurance that a certain tonnage will be made available every week on the basis of 2 ships to Bell Bay, to Burnie and to Devonport. The  Empress of Australia  will be operating its regular services between Melbourne and Devonport and before there is any change in the tonnage which has been agreed to there will be further consultation with the Tasmanian shippers. So I give the honourable member an assurance that there is sufficient tonnage. In fact a new ship,  Seacoaster  is being launched on Saturday and will come into service - 
-They will not be getting a $10,000 jewel. That ship will come into service in the middle of next year and will be available for the Tasmanian trade. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Now that it is an accepted fact that Lockheed Aircraft Corporation has paid bribes totalling millions of dollars to government ministers and commercial leaders in return for the purchase of Lockheed products is the honourable gentleman aware that when the domestic airlines were considering the purchase of new mainline aircraft in the late 1 950s Trans-Australia Airlines recommended the French Caravelle and Ansett Airlines of Australia recommended the Lockheed Electra? Was it generally accepted at that time that Ansett Airlines of Australia received much more favourable treatment than TAA did? Is he also aware of the strong rumours at that time that a senior Liberal Cabinet Minister had been compensated by Lockheed following the government's decision - 
We see once again the Government stonewalling its own legislation. The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. We are supporting it. We have put up 2 speakers because we are prepared to allow the legislation to go through. My reason for saying that the Government is stonewalling is that on looking at the Whips list I see that 6 Government supporters want to speak on it, for no reason other than to flap their wings and to talk about nothing when the legislation could go through. Why does the Government not get on with the job of legislating in this place instead of just talking and talking out time? That is all it is doing on this Bill. It is doing the same thing as far as the Address-in-Reply is concerned. Each day it is just wasting time. It is filling in the time of the Parliament instead of bringing in legislation setting out the policies which it is talking about and which it will implement. It has no real legislation, so it stonewalls what it has before the Parliament at present. 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Bill seeks to increase air navigation charges by some 1 5 per cent. I have in front of me a document which purports to be the Liberal-Country Parties' transport policy. It states: 
Because of the serious and detrimental effect the 80 per cent recovery policy is having on aviation a Liberal-National Country Party Government will immediately halt the program until proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery with other forms of transport are made. 
It is another broken promise already. The Liberal and National Country parties did not waste any time. They have not been here 4 months. The elections are only just over and here they arc starting to break their promises. This is another broken promise added to the long list for which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is becoming famous. 
This legislation provides for a 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges which will return to the Government a paltry $4m. As the former Minister who was loaded with the 80 per cent cost recovery I say that it is true that the previous Government had made a decision to increase air navigation charges to a point where there would be a return of some $30m extra this year. I ask honourable members opposite to have a look at the facts. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the cost recovery figures which indicate the departmental cost, the revenue and the deficit. The table shows what air navigation charges will cost the airlines and what they represent as a percentage of their revenue. I have already spoken to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who has approved the incorporation of the table in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="098131197603025_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  honourable members and the Minister. This table, which honourable members can read in  Hansard,  clearly sets out the real position in respect of what the deficits are and have been in respect of aviation in Australia. In 1971-72 the deficit was $53.2m; in 1972-73 it was $59m; in 1 973-74 it was $65.8m; in 1 974-75 it was $80.2m; and notwithstanding this increase of another 1 5 per cent it will still show a deficit of approximately $82m this year. We set out and were prepared to reduce that $82m by another $30m. The Fraser Government is prepared to waive that increase in air navigation charges whereby people would be closer to paying the cost of the services with which they are provided. The Prime Minister did not have any hesitation in deferring the increase in pensions for another month, which I believe represents $2 9m. He had no hesitation in increasing pharmaceutical charges or eliminating funeral benefits for pensioners. He did not waste any time in respect of cutting costs in these areas. But here was an opportunity for the Government to have gained some revenue. The Government could have increased air navigation charges and made the air traveller pay something akin to what it really costs the taxpayer. In that way the Government could have saved the pensioners the deferment of their pension increase for one month. The Government could have collected an extra $30m from air navigation charges to pay for the $29m which represents one month's deferment of the pension increase. 
It is obvious that the Government is hell bent on cutting social security payments and reducing the value of the pensions- the value we put into them. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  made a statement that our attempt to increase air navigation charges by the amount I have stated was a breach of the 2-airline agreement. All I suggest to the honourable member is that he read the agreement. If he does so he will find that an amendment to the agreement provides that unless the rate of recovery in 1975-76 comes up to the program we have discussed with the airlines procedures for review are available. So our attitude was not a breach of the agreement. The agreement already spells out what can be done and we set out to do just that. 
The airlines never stop bitching about the charges to which I was referring, and I include Ansett in that as the greatest bitcher of them all. He wants everything for nothing. He is not prepared to give anything. He will take as much as he can get and by God, Liberal-Country Party governments have really doled it out for him in return for the election payments he gives them, the sums he puts into their campaign funds. 
-Why does not the honourable member support the legislation, if he has the guts to do so, to permit a full inquiry into election contributions? Let each party declare from where it gets its funds. We will be in it but your mob will not because you are not game to let the people of this country know from where you get your election funds. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that the former Labor Government made a decision to construct and operate a 150 000 ton dock in conjunction with the Newcastle State Dockyard? Was complete and total agreement reached on all points with the New South Wales Government and was there only one outstanding decision to be made, that is, a decision relating to the geological formation underneath the proposed dock site? Did the former Government engage people to carry out the necessary drilling and testing? Has that report been received? What was the result of it? Was it favourable or unfavourable? When can we expect tenders to be called, bearing in mind that a considerable amount of material already has been purchased and financed by the former Australian Government? 

 - Mr Speaker, as it is customary that I should congratulate you on your election and appointment to the position of  Speaker  of this House, I do so with some pleasure because of the fact that I believe it must be a bitter pill for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to swallow to realise that after having defeated you as the Leader of the Opposition after 2 attempts he now has to accept you as the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. I think in that case,  Mr Speaker,  it is a matter that is well worth feeling pleased about. Also we realise that one of the members on our side of the House, the former  Speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  received an additional vote - 
-There are no worries,  Mr Speaker.  I will overcome the interruptions.  ( Government supporters interjecting) 
-Do not tease me.  Mr Speaker,  I repeat and draw to the attention of honourable members that the former  Speaker,  the honourable member for Corio, received one vote more than the number of honourable members who sit on this side of the House. This is quite interesting when one realises that in the Senate in 1974  Senator Justin  O'Byrne, the Labor nominee for  President  of the Senate, was likewise able to pull on side a Liberal or Country Party rat so that he could become the  President  of that chamber. So we had the self-same situation here, where someone in the Liberal or Country Parties was not prepared to accept the decision of those Parties and used the secret ballot to record a vote in opposition to one of the Government's own members. I think that is well worth drawing attention to. As you were one of the candidates,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I just wonder where that vote came from, or whether the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  was getting square again. 
Before the suspension of the sitting we listened to a very interesting address from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I was extremely interested to hear him tell honourable members in his most pompous manner how Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Limited had produced two first-class reports, how they had failed to do certain things, how those reports had not been presented to the Parliament within a certain time and how, because of this failure, they would have been deregistered by the stock exchange if they had been private companies. It is a pity that the honourable member did not apply the same interest and diligence in the business in which he was a senior partner and in which $2m of people's money went astray. It would be very interesting to see how he could apply that interest to the company in which he had so much responsibility. It is a pity that the great free enterprisers who enter the Parliament do not display such interest in the companies for which they are responsible. 
The two Bills before the House seek to authorise Qantas and the Australian National Airlines Commission- TAA- to borrow money to acquire respectively a Boeing 747 and a Boeing 727 aircraft. I find these financial arrangements most interesting. They give approval to Qantas to borrow 40 per cent of the cost of the 747 aircraft from the Export-Import Bank of the United States, 40 per cent from the banking institutions and it has to provide 20 per cent from its own resources. The Eximbank makes this money available at a rate of 9 per cent interest, repayable over 10 years by ten equal instalments over only the last 5 years. This is an indication of how the United States Government is prepared to assist American companies and American manufacturers to produce goods and sell them on the export market. It is a pity that Australian governments were not prepared to give the same assistance to their own Australian manufacturing companies. I do not want to deal with that matter in any great detail. 
I refer to some questions raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who led for the Opposition in this debate. He asked why the airlines were buying Boeing 747 and Boeing 727 aircraft when no clear case had been presented for their purchase. I have a letter which I received on 26 September 1975. I will read it because it clearly sets out the reasons TAA was given authority to purchase Boeing 727 200-series aircraft. The  chairman  of TAA wrote: 
The Commission's current Boeing fleet comprises six 727-76 aircraft and six 727-276 aircraft. The first two 727-76 aircraft were introduced into service over 10 years ago in November 1964. 
There are only four 100 series aircraft in service today that have hours in excess of 35 000, and these are the two hightime TAA and Ansett aircraft. 
There are a total of 43 B727-100 aircraft operating with flying times in the bracket 30 000-35 000 hours and four of these aircraft are also on the Australian register, i.e. 1 7 per cent of the 100 series having hours in excess of 30 000 are on the Australian register. 
The Commission's long-term fleet planning was based on having a minimum of eight B727-200 aircraft in the fleet on the introduction of wide-bodied jet aircraft, at which time 100 series disposal would commence and proceed according to capacity requirements. 
Having regard to our early 100 series having the highest hours in the world, - 
I emphasise those words- it is desirable that their phasing out of service be commenced at an early date. 
I hope the honourable member who asked the question when leading the debate on behalf of the Australian Labor Party understands just what the position is. Trans- Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia have the two longest ' flying 727 100-series aircraft in the world and, quite frankly, it is time they got rid of those aircraft. TAA is doing the right thing by buying a new aircraft because this will then allow it to sell the one they want to replace. In my opinion, Ansett should be doing the same thing. In other words, people flying with Ansett will be getting second best and not the best to which they are entitled in this country. Whilst the technical advisers in the Department of Transport were not prepared to say, and did not say, that these two aircraft were unsafe, they did indicate that it is no proud record to possess the two longestflying aircraft of their type and it was time that the airlines started to get rid of them. I hope that before long the Government will receive a request from Ansett to dispose of its existing aircraft. 
When I approved the purchase of the new aircraft it was on the understanding that if Ansett wanted to get rid of his aircraft he was at liberty to do so, and approval would be granted for Ansett to buy a 727 200-series aircraft as it had been granted for TAA. I should like to make that point clear to honourable members. When the facts were brought to my attention by the technical advisers I gave immediate approval. There are other reasons that the airlines should be permitted to acquire these aircraft. In another part of his letter the  Chairman  of TAA said that there is an improved ambient noise in the 200- series aircraft and that it complies with the FAA FAR 36 noise requirements whereas the 100- series aircraft does not. This is another indication that TAA has some consideration for the people who live near airports, Sydney and Brisbane airports in particular. It is buying the quieter aircraft that will make less noise and will cause less inconvenience to the people who live near the airports. These are important things to be borne in mind because aircraft noise is a major problem. 
I am not altogether happy that TAA is buying the 727 200-series. I should have preferred to see Ansett and TAA move into the wide-bodied jet era. It is time that they moved into that position in the Australian domestic services. I do not care which make they buy because there are a number of very good wide-bodied jets in the world today. I instance the Boeing, the Lockheed, the Douglas and the European Air Bus, aU of which would meet the requirements of Australian domestic services. These aircraft would reduce the congestion that exists in some of our major airports, particularly in Sydney. There are very few aircraft for which a holding exercise does not have to be taken in the early morning to allow other aircraft to land. These problems can be overcome by the airlines to a great extent by the purchase of the wide-bodied jet instead of, as in the existing proposition, purchasing the 727 200-series. A further important point of course is that the modern wide-bodied jet is a much quieter aircraft then even the 727 200-series aircraft. There is a lot to be gained for the people generally. I think they are more important than the companies and the people who want to travel by air. I think the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is still with us. He was here earlier tonight. I hope to see at a very early date his continuing our policies. We were trying to get out of the airlines a promise that they would move into the wide-bodied jets as early as practicable and as early as possible. 
I deal now with TAA. It has much with which to contend. The honourable member for Adelaide talked about the need to have a 2- airline policy. I do not dispute that. I think a 2- airline policy has very decided advantages for a country such as Australia where there is only sufficient room and sufficient traffic to warrant 2 airlines. At least let us have 2 airlines operating on an equal basis, not with the private operator being given vast advantages over the nationalised airline, TAA. Take, for example, the position in Western Australia. It is well and truly understood in the industry that the monopoly advantage which Ansett has over TAA in Western Australia is worth about $5m a year. It is not only an advantage to Ansett but also a disadvantage to the people of Western Australia. Liberal-Country Party members of this Parliament from that State have prevented the people of Western Australia getting a reduction in air fares of approximately 25 per cent. The people in Western Australia who travel MacRobertsonMiller Airline Services get a second rate service and an economy rate aircraft for first class fares. The Liberal-Country Party was the Party which prevented the Labor Party allowing TAA to operate in Western Australia, which would have given the people of that State an immediate first class service, with a reduction in air fares for those people who wanted to travel economy instead of, as at present, travelling in an economy class aircraft with an economy class configuration at first class rates. It is time TAA was put on an equal footing and was given equal access to the traffic in Western Australia. It is time it was given the opportunity to share the $5m in respect of which Ansett has had a very distinct and decided advantage over TAA. People talk about Ansett making a better profit than TAA. Do not forget the fact that Ansett has a $5m start in Western Australia. 
I have not time to go through all the details with respect to Qantas. If honourable members read the latest annual report of Qantas they will see that in the financial year 1973-74 Qantas made a record profit of about $17m. Last year, under adverse circumstances, it was able still to finish up with a profit for the year. It has been brought out already in the debate that this year it is expected that Qantas will lose about $20m. All I want to know from the Minister for Transport is why he sat on the regulations, which were made available to him or which were available on 1 1 November, Remembrance Day, until 24 February when he tabled them in this Parliament. Those regulations which were drafted by the Department of Transport protect Qantas from the unfair discounting that is taking place in Australia today. I do not want to name the airlines. Honourable members know them. Foreign airlines are discounting heavily in this country. The result is that instead of Qantas being able to carry its share of the traffic into and out of Australia these other airlines, by unfair discounting, are taking away from Qantas the people who in normal circumstances should be travelling with Qantas. I hope that the Minister will rigidly enforce these regulations. I know what they contain. 
-I cannot help that. At least he can read. I can see officials of his Department. They will, I know from past performance, convey to him what went on here tonight. I hope he will enforce these regulations to make sure that Qantas is put on a more reasonable basis. I hope these people who are indulging in illegal discounting are brought up with a very sharp jerk. I hope they get on with the job of selling fair dinkum in an equal market so that Qantas, instead of losing $20m, which is money belonging to the people of Australia, will be in a much better position to compete with the foreign airlines. 
The other matter which I wish to bring forward is the question of Australian industry participation. One of the things that concerns me about the order which has been placed by the 2 companies, TAA and Qantas, for the 2 aircraft is that the Minister gave no indication that there are any offset payments. I am talking about an Australian industry participation scheme by which the Australian aircraft industry has some part in the building of these aircraft. When a contract is signed to purchase an aircraft from an overseas country there is an exchange of contracts, between the builder and the buyer, by which the home country gets some share in the building of some part of the aircraft. At the moment there is no indication in these 2 Bills that such an agreement has been entered into by this Government. I have been reliably advised by people in the industry who are appreciative of what we did in the 3 years that we were in office and of the work which we were able to get for the Australian aircraft industry, that at present- this is the statement I have- there is a definite holding back by United States aircraft companies. I call on the Minister for Transport, one of the other Ministers or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to make a very clear and positive statement that the Government will rigidly enforce the same policies which we had. We were able to extract from the American aircraft manufacturers a promise that they would make available to Australian companies offset payments so that Australian workmen- Australian expertise- could be put into this industry and retained in this industry. 
An Australian company has submitted tenders for the supply of parts of an aircraft that is to be manufactured for the Douglas Aircraft Company Incorporated in the United States. They will be offset payments for future purchases by Australian airlines for DC9-50 aircraft or for DC10 aircraft if Qantas buys them. There is some suggestion that Qantas may be looking at them. These will be offset payments for them. This Australian company has put in a tender for US$6m worth of work. Its tender is more than competitive. At this stage, because the Government has not been clear and positive as to where it stands on offset payments, the Douglas Aircraft Company is holding back the announcement about the Australian company, which is competitive and whose work is more than satisfactory when compared with the work of overseas companies. Until such time as the Government says that it endorses the strong stand taken by the Australian Labor Party Government this company is in jeopardy of not getting the US$6m order. There is involved not only this US$6m order but also other flow-ons for which the company has already tendered. Its prices are still more than competitive with the overseas tenders which have been submitted. We are talking in terms not only of US$6m but in terms of much larger sums, a continuation of work for Australian people and the retention of this important Australian industry. So it is up to the Government to get on with the job. 
For some considerable time this company has been doing work for Boeing International Corporation, and doing it satisfactorily and competitively. What the Government has got to understand is this: Once Australian industry loses this work it will go to another company in another country. That country will then get the expertise, and its learners curve will come down. The result is that, by reason of the fact that the Australian company has lost contact and that it has lost the expertise which is so important in the aircraft industry, this country loses that type of work to an overseas company. So it is time that the Minister made a clear, positive statement- I emphasise this next point- and it is time that the Government endorsed the strong stand which we took and should say that unless we get offset payments for Australian industries the Government is not prepared to permit Australian airlines to buy the aircraft of these companies, and that we will buy them from other places. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to bring a matter to the attention of the Government, particularly to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I refer to the introduction into Australian shipping on 15 April of a Russian shipping line known as FESCO Australia Limited or the FESCO Australia Line. It is controlled by the Soviet shipping agency in Moscow which is known as Sovinflot. This is a nationalised organisation of the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It has set up agencies in all of the major trading countriesin the United Kingdom, in Belgium, in the Netherlands, West Germany, Portugal, Japan and Singapore. Now is has set up a similar line in Australia. Here it is known as Opal Maritime Agencies Pty Ltd of which the Russian Sovinflot agency holds 75 per cent of the shares and James Patricks and Company Pty Ltd, an Australian organisation, holds 25 per cent. Honourable members would realise that James Patricks and Co. Pty Ltd were brought into the deal because it is one of the large shipping agencies in Australia and its organisation could be used to get trade. 
The question that arises is whether there is a need for the FESCO Australia Line to enter the trade. There is no need for it. This trade already has adequate shipping tonnage provided by the existing shipping lines which have been servicing it for some considerable time. The Australian National Line already has 2 ships in the trade. I do not have time to spell this out in detail but ANL has two containerships in this trade. With two other ships it is servicing the South East Asian trade. It is also having a ship constructed in Japan to provide an additional service for the Asian and Japanese trade. All told Australia is very much involved in the Japan-Australia and the Asia- Australia trade. There is no need for this new shipping line to enter the trade. 
I have a list of the ports that this shipping line will be visiting. The first ship will sail from Vladivostok on 15 April and there will be a 15 per cent discount on the freight rates. If the Conference line and the other shipping lines reduce their freight rates by 15 per cent- and they will- we know from past experience that the Soviet line will reduce them by another 1 5 per cent, 20 per cent or 30 per cent. On the basis of that line's performance in other countries throughout the world, this 1 5 per cent discount is only the first bid and shippers can negotiate even greater discounts, if necessary. 
I bring to the attention of the Government and the Ministers concerned just what is happeningthey know of it- and the fact that there is no effort whatever by the Government to do anything about it. For example, some 3 weeks ago  Mr Swayne,  the  chairman  of Overseas Containers Ltd and the Australia- Japan Container Line, came to Australia especially to warn the Minister for Transport of just what was under way. I regret to say that, even though the Minister was aware that I would be speaking on a shipping subject today, I do not see him anywhere in the chamber. This once again indicates that he has no regard for what is happening, in the same way as he indicated to  Mr Swayne  I understand, that he was not concerned about the shipowners' problem; he was concerned about the shippers and their shipping problem. Also,  Mr Neville  Jenner, the  Chairman  of the Australian National Line, was interviewed on this subject. The article, published in the  Daily Commercial News and Shipping List  on Friday, 12 April, on that interview, stated: 
In an exclusive interview yesterday,  Mr Jenner  said the Australian National Line provided a top-grade service to shippers on a commercial basis. 
With this in mind, it naturally must be concerned about the threat of competition designed to entice away its clients. 
He said it was too early to comment further on possible effects of the Russian competition as the ships have not begun calling at Australian ports. 
He did say, however, that shippers would no doubt bear in mind the longer term situation and weigh it up against any immediate advantage which may be given from accepting lower freight rates offered at this time. 

 Mr Jenner was dealing with the subject about which I am talking. So  Mr Swayne,  the leader of one of the leading shipping interests of the world, and  Mr Jenner,  the  Chairman  of our own national shipping line, the largest Australian participant in foreign trade, expressed concern. Once again I emphasise the point that there has been no Government or ministerial response to the intrusion of the Soviet shipping line into Australia. This line trades not on the basis of competitive prices or the economic operation of its ships but purely and simply in order to have Russian ships in a particular country's trade. Every Western country today is concerned about this. 
When I was in Europe in June last year I was approached- because the discussions were more or less on a confidential level I feel that I am not free to name the people who spoke to me- by people who stated that all the leading people in European shipping are concerned about the way the Soviet Union is expanding its shipping operations throughout the world today. The Soviet Union is one of the minor trading countries and probably has less trade than most other countries; but it is the sixth largest shipping nation in the world today. I emphasise that point to the very few Government supporters who are sitting in the chamber now. Every country is concerned about the way the Soviet Union is expanding its shipping fleet. When I was in Europe I indicated to the people with whom I spoke that I, too, was concerned and was prepared to look closely at the matter and to talk to them at a future date. I am sorry to say that those people are not in a position at least to receive a sympathetic reception from a Minister of the Australian Government. This unsympathetic attitude is similar to the frigid reception the 2 shipping representatives got from the present Minister for Transport on this very important subject. 
I indicate clearly to honourable members that I am really concerned about the intrusion of the Soviet shipping line into activities in Australia. 
This line is developing a trade wherein it will take out of Europe on the Trans-Siberian RailwayI am talking now in terms of Asian, South East Asian and Japanese-Australian trade- as much of the container trade as it can and take it to the port of Nakhodka, from where it will be shipped to Japan, Australia, Singapore or whatever ports the line is servicing. It appears to me that the Government is not really concerned about what is happening. The Russians approach the matter on the basis of the trade being a foreign currency earner and part of an export industry. By this means they will earn export currency in the form of income from freight. They see it as a major part of their foreign policy to have a Russian presence in almost every country in the world. Yesterday the Minister for Defence replied to the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson).  Dealing with the United States, he stated that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence have said on several occasions that the use of facilities in Western Australia by the United States will be welcomed by this Government. From the attitude of the Minister for Transport and the Government as a whole, the Minister for Defence should have added that with the entry of FESCO into Australian trading we welcome our great friend the Soviet Union into Australian trade and its use of Australian ports, because that is what it means to have Australian ports used by Soviet shipping. 
All Government supporters in the AddressinReply debate on the Governor-General's Speech laid great stress on free enterprise. Where are the great free enterprisers today? What will the Government do about this? What will the Government's great free enterprise Minister do about it? Nothing. Up to this point he has given the Australian and overseas shipping lines the cold shoulder. They can look for no comfort from Nixon or this Government. Bilateral agreements similar to those of the airlines are needed. There should be an endorsement of the Geneva liner conference which provided for a 40-40-20 proposition whereby the exporting nation carries 40 per cent of the trade, the importing nation likewise carries 40 per cent and 20 per cent goes to cross traders. The resources, facilities and means to deal with this problem are at our disposal but the Government will not pick it up. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the personal explanation made in the House on 18 March by the honourable member for Macarthur, who sought to draw a distinction between himself and the other 1 1 partners in the stockbroking firm Patrick Partners. 
We have just listened to a very short address by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Likewise, I should like to make a very brief statement on this particular subject. The honourable member for Lilley is trying to perpetuate the old system of political, not economic, decisions on the location of airports. If an economic evaluation had ever been conducted on Tullamarine Airport, the Taj Mahal that was built there would never have been built. The airline industry and the aircraft industry would not have been loaded with the exorbitant cost of that airport. A terminal was built in Sydney for which there was some justification. But the former Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, put political pressure on the Prime Minister of the day,  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. In the construction of the Tullamarine airport, there were millions of dollars of unnecessary expenditure for an elaborate airport that even today,  Sir Reginald  Ansett has said on many occasions, is much too large, much too elaborate and it is one for which the airlines should not be expected to carry the cost. 
We come back to the point: Are we going to go on having political decisions made on the construction of airports or are we going to determine what is required and then determine the economic evaluation of the airports? That is what was done in all sincerity, in all justice, with regard to the Brisbane Airport. The Government of honourable members opposite was in office for 23 years but it did nothing. The honourable member for Lilley, as a former Minister of a Liberal-Country Party Government, did nothing with regard to the Brisbane Airport. It got to the stage where the igloo, or the international terminal, got to the point where structurally the Department was advised that the terminal should not be occupied and that it should be evacuated when winds reached a certain velocity. That is the situation that applied under a LiberalCountry Party Government. I direct that statement, through you,  Mr Speaker,  to the honourable member for Lilley.  His  Government did nothing about the situation. The Labor Party in office did something about it. Today a reasonable type of international terminal is operating as a replacement for the igloo that honourable members opposite put up with for 23 years. 
With regard to the economic evaluation of airports, let us look at the Launceston terminal. Launceston will never in a million years have sufficient throughput to justify the type of airport terminal that was built there. The same thing could be said about Perth in the early days. All of these airport terminals were built, not because there was a need for them, not because there was an economic justification for them, but purely and simply because they happened to be the home ports of Ministers. They happened to be in their electorates. 
-That is right. As the honourable member for Banks says, the Ministers were glorifying themselves. They were providing facilities far in excess of the city's requirement. The system which we as a Government introduced will provide reasonable investigation into these terminals. Nobody questions the integrity or the credibility of the Bureau of Transport Economics. If that body carries out an investigation into some transport matter and comes up with a decision and a recommendation, from my experience, there is not one government in Australia that would reject its report and recommendations. I give credit to the former Liberal-Country Party Government for having set up the Bureau. No government has ever rejected its report on the grounds that the findings were not factual and at no time has a government questioned the credibility of that organisation. 
I can see the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is just itching to speak. These people are interested only in the political side of the situation. If there is justification for this terminal to be built, then by all means the Bureau of Transport Economics' report will bring that out. We want to get away from those home town decisions in which former LiberalCountry Party Ministers have indulged in providing elaborate terminals in the various cities that they come from and that cannot be justified on economic grounds. I hope that we do not have any more airports like Tullamarine and that we do not have any more airports like Launceston. In all probability, if there had been an economic evaluation of the Sydney terminal, a 13 000 foot runway would not have been constructed. I believe that the needs of the industry should be properly and economically evaluated by a suitable body such as the Bureau of Transport Economics which can come up with these decisions. Let us stop these people from playing politics and get away from these home town decisions by Ministers. 
I thank the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  for all the kind remarks he made about the transport policy of the Labor 
Government. The progressive actions which he referred to were all taken by the Labor Government. As to the Bill to which the honourable member referred as such a marvellous piece of legislation in his view, I say to him: 'Please go and read my Bill of October last year and you will find that it is almost identical'. The honourable member referred to the study into transport taking place in Sydney at the present time. It is investigating whether Parramatta should be the base of the railways. The Liberal Party has been in office in New South Wales for 1 1 years. It has not yet got around to assisting public transport. The Liberal and Country parties were in office here for 23 years and they did not do one thing in the whole of those 23 years to assist urban public transport. In less than 3 years, the Labor Government made money available to the State governments and entered into negotiations and agreements with them for a commitment of $208m, of which our commitment was $140m. How long was the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  the Minister? How long were the Liberal and Country parties in government? In 23 years they did nothing to assist the capital cities of Australia with their urban public transport problem. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Mitchell referred in a sneering manner to the standard urban passenger train and to the standard bus. All I say to the honourable gentleman is this: For God's sake learn a bit about transport before you ridicule the things which have been done. The manufacturers of railway rolling stock and the manufacturers of bus rolling stock will state that thousands of dollars per vehicle or per carriage could be saved as a result of standardisation. Those parliamentarians who are seeking to gain a political advantage are opposed to the proposition. Let me tell the honourable member that the people who knew what was going on, namely the technical advisers in the Department, gave wholehearted and 100 per cent support to what was going on. All I say to the honourable member is this: Please do not play politics on an issue that should be non-political- on an issue that affects the people of this country, in particular the people in the cities. 
The honourable member for Mitchell said that in his electorate, which is one of the developing electorates of Sydney, industries develop because people go there to live. Roads that were once rural roads are now important urban roads. The councils cannot afford to finance the upgrading of those roads. I ask the honourable gentleman to look at one of the schedules in the Bill. 
We realised that fact 3 years ago. Honourable members opposite have not yet got around to that They are just starting to advocate that. They do not know it is in the Bill. That is obvious from the stupid statements they are making tonight. We provided $4m out of the $64m for that type of road. The present Minister has cut back the $4m to $1,310,000. Why do not honourable members opposite understand what is in the Bill before they speak on it? 
I have finished with the honourable member for Mitchell. I want to devote my time to what the Bill is all about. As honourable members would realise, it is an amendment of the 1974 Act. This Bill provides for an interchange of funds between the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act- for an interchange of funds between categories, something that has been taking place all the time. Unfortunately, in the original Act there was not the legal provision to do so. I congratulate the Minister and his Department for seeking to amend the Act so that the exchanges which took place prior to 1 1 November 1975 are validated by these amendments. It provides for that. It provides admittedly for less rigid programming, and takes into account $64m for an inflation adjustment. It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Transport talked about how they had given $64m for roads. I draw the attention of all honourable members to the Hayden Budget. That $64m was in the Hayden Budget. In actual fact, what this Government has done and will be doing as the result of a policy decision, not by legislation, will be to restrict the States to spending only $44m of the $64m in this financial year. They will get $20m in the next financial year. This Government has actually cut back spending on roads by $20m in this financial year. 
I am quite happy with the proposed amendments. I do not want to see the change that has taken place as far as the transfer of national highway funds is concerned. I shall deal with that matter in greater detail later on. The amount of $8,100,000 has been transferred from use on national highways to other categories of roads which are of much less importance. While I am prepared to agree that there can be a transfer of funds I totally oppose the proposition which the Minister is putting in the new schedules. The interchange of funds between categories has been taking place ever since the Act came into operation in July 1974. Ministers have come to the Australian Government and put forward propositions whereby funds could be changed from one category of road into another category of road. There is nothing new in that. This legislation validates something which has been going on for approximately the last 18 months. In relation to the submission of programs, admittedly the urban local councils were requested and required to put in programs. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  had programs under way with local councils. He was dealing with them all the time and with urban improvement programs. So where there are urban improvement programs which take in roads, the whole thing fits into a pattern. 
I draw the attention of the honourable member for Mitchell to the fact that the Government under the urban local roads section of this legislation will give every council in Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong in New South Wales- that is the State from which the honourable member and I come- approximately equal amounts of money irrespective of their requirements. The developed councils will get the same as councils in the area which the honourable member for Mitchell represents. It is the outer sections of my electorate and the electorates in the western suburbs of Sydney and of Melbourne which will suffer as a result of this equalisation. Every one of them will get equal amounts. So I warn the honourable member about this matter. The reason we wanted programs was to make sure that the recommendations of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, which drew to our attention the serious problems and anomalies in the outer suburbs of the capital cities, would not be passed over by this equalisation system which gives everyone an equal share of the money. 
I warn the members of the Liberal Party from the capital cities that the National Country Party is putting it over them once again. The tail is wagging the dog. Local government has not yet been asked to submit programs for rural local roads. When the proposition was put forward originally it was intended that the local councils would put in programs. They said: 'Look, we are quite happy with the way the money is being allocated. Why can we not leave it alone?'. So an agreement with the State Ministers was that the rural local roads programs would not be submitted and that we would accept the program of funds which the councils put forward on a broad basis. That was acceptable. So that the Australian Department of Transport would know where it was going and what was happening with this money local councils were asked to submit at the end of each financial year a list of the works and their cost so that we would know where the money had been spent. I do not see that situation as standing over anyone or making things difficult as far as councils are concerned. We accepted the councils ' proposition. 
As I said, the legislation is, in the main, almost identical with the legislation which was introduced in this place on 30 October 1975. Unfortunately, because of the coup on 11 November, it was not brought to fruition. I shall deal now with the policy decisions of the Minister that the States should not be required to submit their urban arterial roads programs. All I hope is that the States give the Minister for Transport more co-operation than they gave me. I did not receive much co-operation from the State Ministers, with one exception. Some were less co-operative than others. 
The Victorian Minister was the most unco-operative Minister with whom one could ever come in contact. Just because the Liberal Party in Victoria would not wear him as their Premier, he took it out on everyone else with whom he came in contact. Honourable members know whom I am talking about. Thank God, for the sake of politics and parliaments, that he decided to retire at the last election. 
-I would sooner talk about roads than about him. The previous Government received no co-operation whatsoever from most of the State Ministers. The Premier of Queensland told deliberate untruths. He laid off thousands of men at the time of the 1974 State election there and said that it was as a result of not receiving sufficient money from the Australian Government for roads. In fact, the Australian Government increased its allocation to Queensland by some $12m; Queensland reduced its spending by $800,000 and then accused the Australian Government of not providing that State with sufficient money. At a meeting of the Local Government Association of Queensland in Brisbane on 14 March last year I was able to produce evidence which proved conclusively that the Queensland Government was lying when it said that it did not receive money from us and that it had to wait for money. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  is not in the chamber. He was one Minister whom I found quite reasonable and easy to get on with. In 1 973-74 New South Wales provided $124m for roads. In 1974-75 it increased that amount by $600,000. The Australian Government increased its allocation to 
New South Wales by $18m. All that we heard from the Premier and the former Minister for Highways was that there was a shortage of funds for roads. I warn the Government that this is the type of thing State governments get up to when they are playing politics. They hid the fact that they reduced their allocations, or increased them by only minute amounts, when actually they were receiving substantial increases from the Australian Government. The States gave the Australian Government no credit whatsoever for that. I hope that the Minister for Transport gets a better deal from the State Ministers over his decision not to require them to submit programs for the spending of their money on urban arterial roads. I hope that they do not get up to their old caper of building freeways. If the Australian Government had not intervened 3 years ago, we would have seen Motorway 23 running through a beautiful park in Newcastle because the roadhappy, crazy Department of Main Roads showed no forward thinking and no real appreciation of the transport problem as a whole. 
To some degree I can understand the attitudes of State Ministers, because for 23 years when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government they did not receive one cent for upgrading their urban public transport systems. Let me give honourable members the figures again. Agreement was reached by the Labor Government for a $208m program over 3 years, of which the Australian Government contributed $140m. So the States are now in a position in which they should be thinking of things other than roads. On this whole question of transport there has to be cooperation between the States and the Federal Government. Roads in Australia are financed by 3 groups. Roughly one-third is financed by local government, one-third by State governments and the other one-third by the Australian Government. Surely it is time that each of those 3 groups was in a position to spell out their requirements and priorities concerning what they want done. 
I am pleased that the Minister has not deleted from the Act the requirement for the States to submit programs to him of the work that should be financed by Australian Government funds. I hope that he has seen what can be done and should be done with Australian funds in the development of roads throughout Australia. We are running out of time in this debate but I hope that in the Committee stage I shall be able to explain in greater detail my opposition to national roads and why the Government has cut down on what it is doing in this area. I hope that the Minister will be in a position to develop decent planning for national highways, rural arterial roads and urban arterial roads. I hope that he will not be using Australian Government funds to finance projects submitted to him by the Statesprojects such as the north-west distributor in Sydney, motorway 23 in Newcastle and the many other freeways throughout Australia. Reasonable thinking people can see the reasons for money not being provided for these types of roads. Planning in this direction is essential as far as we are concerned. 
I was amused to note in the Minister's speech his offer of co-operation to the States in urban public transport and in roads. All I suggest to the honourable gentleman is that he read my statement to the same Ministers which I made in August last year. I think that all that the Department did in producing the Minister's statement was to change the name at the top of the speech which I delivered to the State Ministers on 29 August last year. He probably substituted the name Peter Nixon in lieu of Charlie Jones. In fact, the other day a friend of mine in the Department of Transport told me that they now call the Minister 'Charlie Nixon' within the Department. But the facts are that the statement which I delivered in Sydney on 29 August last year is not different from the statement which the Minister delivered to the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Melbourne last month. It is obvious that this Bill will perpetuate transport policies which have been introduced over the last 3 years.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have sought the Minister's approval to incorporate a table in  Hansard.  I now seek leave to have that table incorporated. 
I am concerned with clause 8 of this Bill under which it is proposed to deduct $8. 1 m from the funds allocated to the National Roads Act and to transfer those funds into the Roads Grants Act. The reason I am so concerned is that the Commonwealth is going to take money allocated to the most important roads in Australia and transfer it to roads of lesser importance. Many of those roads have half a dozen or maybe a dozen vehicles a day over them yet we have highways that affect the whole of this country. The national highways, for example, will connect 150 towns, each with a population exceeding 2000. These highways will connect 9.5 million people in urban settlements. As at 1972 figures they will accommodate 4000 million vehicle miles. The national highways system comprises some 9800 miles of roads and the tragedy is that only about 100 miles of those 9800 miles of road are divided carriageways. There are nearly 6600 miles of single carriage roadway, and about 3100 miles of roadway that is completely unsealed. Where is a lot of this single carriage roadway to be found? It is on the major national highways in this country. The roadway for roughly half the distance between Sydney and Newcastle, the most heavily trafficked section of national highway in Australia, is a 2-lane operation. The same could be said of the highway between Sydney and Melbourne. There are large stretches of 2-lane highway between Albury and Melbourne. Yet this Government has seen fit to cut back the allocation for these roads by $8.1m. The previous Government allocated $ 1 3.94m for road construction, and this Government has cut back that allocation to $7.35m 
I do not think that honourable members should sit idly by and allow that to happen without taking the consequences into consideration. I have figures here which I have used on numerous occasions because they are figures which clearly explain the situation and nobody has yet challenged them. For example, the accident rate in 1970 on New South Wales rural highways was 3.2 accidents per million vehicle miles. Yet on the short section of highway between Sydney and Newcastle, better known as the Tollway, the accident rate was 1.4 accidents per million vehicle miles. On the Hume Highway in 1971-72 there were 838 accidents involving casualties. Most of these accidents resulted from failures in the planning of the road system- bad curves, bad hills and insufficient distance for motorists to see where they were going. One of my colleagues who drove from Sydney to Canberra on Monday night told me at lunch on Tuesday that he saw accidents involving 5 fatalities on the Hume Highway on Monday night. 
I warn the Government that it is failing to accept its responsibility to lift highways, the most heavily trafficked roads in Australia, to such a standard that people will not lose their lives on them. Honourable members opposite will say that accidents will still happen because of driver failure. However, a lot of the faults of drivers are due to the faults of engineers and the engineers' faults are due to government failure to accept responsibility to provide sufficient money for road construction. I warn honourable members, and I am interested to see a few honourable members from New South Wales in the chamber tonight, that at the present rate of expenditure, the Hume Highway will not be a minimum 4-lane roadway for another 120 years. That is how long people will have to wait to get a minimum 4-lane roadway. We saw an example of the very poor construction of the Hume Highway in 1974 when as a result of heavy rain the Hume Highway was almost impassable for a considerable distance south of the Collector turn-off. The road was just smashed to pieces. Together with members of the Department of Transport I went over a short section of the Hume Highway and saw what its condition was. The former Labor Government immediately provided some $3m for the maintenance and restoration of that section of the highway. On one occasion a truck driver said to me that he would have felt safer if he had been driving his truck through some of the ploughed-up paddocks rather than travelling along what is supposed to be the number one national highway in Australia. 
As I have said, this is money that has been reallocated to roads of minor importance. The former Labor Government has been accused of having drained money away from rural local roads. Let us get the facts. The fact is that as a government we did just that, we did take money away from urban local roads. But when we did it we also took other matters into consideration. I have in my possession a table which I have not shown to the Minister so I will not seek his permission to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  This table gives figures in respect of all States except Victoria. Someone needled me a while ago about Victoria. In respect of this table, Victoria showed its usual co-operation. It was not prepared to make any information available in respect of what it spent on rural arterial roads, which are now national highways, the same as it would not give to the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, the necessary information for the Bureau of Transport Economics to put together its report on urban public transport. The table discloses that in 1973-74, $65.4m was spent by New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania on rural arterial roads which are now national highways. We know that the Bureau of Roads made available certain information to the Department of Transport. I have this information which discloses that roughly half of that money was provided out of Commonwealth Aid Roads grants. So in actual fact half of that money as financed by the Australian Government. 
We said time and again: 'You no longer have the responsibility of providing this $65m for rural arterial roads because the whole of that cost is being financed. Use that money to fill the gap, the vacuum, which we created as far as rural local roads are concerned'. This is where the States used that money. This money should have been used on rural local roads. But the States did 2 things. Firstly they transferred some of it into their own arterial road program. Secondly, they did not increase their allocation for roads commensurate with the cost of living increases and the cost of road construction. So the States did not fill the vacuum which we created. They had the money to do it but they did not use that money for this purpose. I have quoted previously tonight,  Mr Deputy Chairman  - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In respect of the companies (a) Birmingham Small Arms, (b) Burns Philp Shipping Company, (c) Dunlop Rubber Company, (d) J. Arthur Rank, (e) P. &amp; O. Shipping Company and (f) Orient Snipping Company, (i) what contracts were in force between the Australian Government and each company during the period 28 April 1950 to 28 April 195 1, (ii) what contracts were entered into between each company and the Australian Government during the period 28 April 195 1 and 29 May 1954, (iii) what benefits were paid to each company in respect of each such contract, (iv) what other approvals, licences, leases, clearances, authorisations or other benefits were granted to each company during the period 28 April 195 1 and 29 May 1954 and (v) in each such case, what representations were made on behalf of each company by the Prime Minister or persons acting on his behalf. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost to the Government of the buffet dinner held at Government House on 10 May 1975, which was reported in the Vice-Regal notices published on 12 May 1975. 
If it was a private gathering, why was it reported in the Vice-Regal notices. 
If any Government expense was involved, what was the purpose of the gathering, and who were the guests present. 
Was  Mr Justice  Larkins among the guests. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has called and closed tenders for two 13 000-ton general purpose ships; that the Australian National Line has called and closed tenders for four 15 000-ton bulk carriers; that Howard Smith Industries Pty Ltd is on the verge of calling tenders for a 30 000-ton product carrier for coastal operations; and that these companies and ANL are in a position whereby they cannot place orders for those ships until such time as the Government has determined its shipbuilding policy? When can the industry expect to hear the Government's policy on shipbuilding, having in mind that Carrington Slipways has already laid off 20 per cent of its work staff, that the Whyalla shipyard is on the verge of laying off labour and that the Newcastle State Dockyard will shortly be in a similar position? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the retail or wholesale value of imported (a) comic books and (b) paperback novels during each of the last 5 years. 
I was astounded by the humbug and hypocrisy of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The Government Parties are still talking about what the Australian Labor Party did when it was in government. Let us look at the real question of unemployment. Unemployment today is no better than it was 6 months ago when the Liberal and National Country parties became the government. Basically they have done nothing about it. The honourable member for Lilley was greatly concerned about what the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions said about wage indexation last night following the address to the nation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that the Government would not get the co-operation of the ACTU unless the ACTU got the co-operation of the Government. This Government was elected on a promise of retaining wage indexation. What was the first thing it did? The first thing it did when the matter came up for consideration in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was to ask for a 3.2 per cent increase in wages rather than the 6.4 per cent as required under indexation. If the Government wants to doublecross people- that is what its action amounts to- I think it will get the type of co-operation to which a double-crosser is entitled. 
Like a lot of other people, I am trying to find out just what the Prime Minister did say last night. The medicine is to be doled out on Thursday night by the Treasurer. That is what the Prime Minister kept saying last night. He dealt with matters in an air-fairy manner. Many people were disappointed with what they heard last night. I know I stayed home to listen to what the Prime Minister had to say because one always has to know what the enemy is doing. I expected to hear something, but nothing was forthcoming. One thing that is obvious is that Medibank is under challenge from the Liberal and National Country parties. They are going to whittle it away. Once again they have been guilty of humbug. When the Labor Party endeavoured to impose a levy for Medibank the then Opposition used its numbers in the Senate to stop it. Now the same people in government are going to do the thing which they rejected only last year in the Senate. Because of the increased cost of Medibank and because there is no levy the Government is now accusing the former Government of being responsible for a huge deficit brought about by the obstruction of the Liberal and National Country parties in the Senate. Honourable members opposite have to face up to their share of responsibility for things that have gone on. Look at what the Whitlam Government did in the field of social security. Look at the improved benefits that were given to people who needed aid. Compare what we spent on education with the paltry, piffling amount spent by the previous Liberal-Country Party government. It spent $440m in its last full year as the Government as against $ 1902m allocated by the Labour Party in the 1975-76 Budget. Compare those achievements with the whittling away of the rights of people in which the Government is now indulging. No doubt a few more backhanders will be meted out on Thursday night by the Treasurer. 
This Government has nothing to be proud of. Its record came up for close scrutiny not in the opinion polls but in the cold hard reality of the ballot-box on 1 May in New South Wales. Its State colleagues got their ears belted off. It was only the gerrymander of electorates in typical Liberal-Country Party fashion that made the result appear so close after being dragged out day after day. The Labor Party polled the majority of votes in New South Wales. There is the real indication of what the people of this country think of the things the Government is doing. It is obvious why  Sir Eric  Willis called on the election some 6 months earlier than he need have. The Prime Minister had tipped him off- You had better get it in pretty soon, boy, or you will really get a lacing because after our mini-Budget comes down at the end of May and our Budget comes down in August you just will not win one seat'. That is the situation. I will be interested to hear how the honourable member for Lilley will justify the unpopular things which the Treasurer will dole out on Thursday night and again in August in the Budget. 
Some of the things that I want to deal with tonight in the limited time available to me relate once again to the tardiness of this Government in doing something for an industry in this country that employs directly and indirectly something like 5000 men and women. I am referring to the shipbuilding industry which is slowly but surely falling to pieces because of the need for this Government to decide what it is to do with ship building. Will it retain ship building or will it not? When this Government came into office the shipyards had orders. There was a need to place orders. Orders were in the offing, as I will outline in a moment. I want to deal with the policy expressed by the Government when it was in Opposition. I have a publication that was circulated by the now Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  which set out the whole transport policy of the then Opposition. If the ideas pinched from us were taken out of the document and only the ideas of the Opposition left in, the document would contain less than one page. I wish to deal with page 6. Under the heading  Shipbuilding  it states: 
An Australian shipbuilding and repair industry is essential to the national interest. The Liberal and Country Parties believe Australia must maintain an independent capacity to provide and service the relevant requirements of our commercial shipping and our defence forces. A Federal Liberal and Country Party Government will pursue policies which ensure the shipbuilding and repair industry operates as competitively and efficiently as possible. In this we will provide a building subsidy to protect our relatively small but vital industry. 
It is now over 6 months since the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  became Ministers in the Liberal-Country Party, first of all in the caretaker Government and then in the Government after 13 December. Even at this date, 18 May, it appears that they are no closer to presenting a policy and making a decision on what they intend doing in the shipbuilding industry. I sat in on 2 delegations from the State Dockyard, one from the shop committee executive and the other from workers from the plant who came to Canberra to approach the various Ministers in an endeavour to get a decision out of the Government. All that I heard from the Minister was unnecessary abuse of the men who had come here. He charged them with threatening to hold stoppages unless he saw them. That was not true. No such threat had at any time been levelled against the Minister. The Minister gave them aline of baloney that any Irishman would have been proud of, but at no point did he come up with one fact or one figure to indicate what his Government would do in regard to shipbuilding. I believe the delegation will be here again on Thursday of this week in an endeavour to get an answer out of the Government as to what it is doing. 
Already people from the Whyalla shipyard have been here trying to get out of  Senator Cotton  the Government's policy. It is obvious to me that the Government does not have a policy. It cannot make up its mind what it is going to do. On 29 April 1976 I directed a question to the Prime Minister. I set out some facts, asked the Government's policy on shipbuilding and when the industry could expect to hear the Government's policy on shipbuilding. I then outlined the situation in certain shipyards. This is the answer I got: 
I again thank the honourable gentleman for the information he gave the House. I will refer it to the Minister for Transport when he returns. 
The Minister for Transport was in New Zealand at the time attending a conference. I make no comment about that. The facts of the matter are that the question did not belong to the Minister for Transport; it belonged to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in another place. That question was asked on 29 April. At this date, 18 May, still no decision on the industry has come from the Government. At this date Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has two 40 000 ton bulk ships under construction. The first will be completed in May 1977 and the second in November 1977. Two trans-Tasman ro-ro ships are being built for the Union Steamship Company. They are to be completed in June 1976 and February 1977. Honourable members can see that there is a need for the Government to make an early decision on policy so that orders can be placed, otherwise that yard will be forced to start laying off labour at an early date. The State Dockyard in Newcastle is building a vehicle deck container ship which is to be completed in June this year. Two 25 000 ton dead weight bulk ships are being built for the Australian National Line, the first to be completed in November 1976 and the second in May 1977. Once again this yard is in a perilous position regarding employment and unless orders are placed it will have to lay off labour. By rights they should be laying off labour now. I know that the drawing office has completed all the plans necessary to fulfill these orders. They have done all the work in anticipation of getting the three or four 15 000 ton bulk carriers that ANL put out to tender some months ago. 
It is not a question of there being no ships to build and of there being no need for ships in Australia. There is a need for coastal shipping to be built in Australian shipyards. ANL has made a decision that it needs to replace its Lake class ships. If it does not replace them now the cost of the 20 years survey will be monstrous. The building of the ships will not be an economic proposition if another 20 years survey has to be carried out. ANL has made its decision. It will replace that class of ship with three or four 15 000 ton bulk ships. Tenders have been called and have closed for these three or four ships. It is up to the Government to make a decision on policy. BHP has called tenders for two 13 500 ton general purpose ships. Tenders closed on 28 November and as yet an order has not been placed because that company is waiting for the Government to make a decision as to when and where those ships should be built. I know where those ships should be built. 
-It is obvious where the interests of the honourable member for Riverina lie. He would sooner have the ships built in Korea, Japan, Taiwan or anywhere with cheap labour than here in Australia. He wants subsidies, phosphate bounties and the like for his rural producers but he is not prepared to give anything to the secondary industries of this country. There is nothing wrong in giving the superphosphate bounty to people who need it, but I am damned if I can see any sense in doling out $5,000 a year to the Prime Minister. Millionaire Mai does not need it. The people in the shipbuilding industry do need assistance. 
There is a need for shipping. The Bureau of Transport Economics did a study on the needs of the oil industry on the coastways. There is a need, within the next 5 years, to build a 20 000 to 30 000 ton product carrier to service the coast of Australia with oil products. ANL has a 16-year contract with John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd to build and to operate a 20 000 ton slab carrier. Eight ships should be and need to be built in an Australian yard. If only this Government would make up its mind. There is a need to replace the  Tambo River,  which was originally the  Takasako,  and the  Tolga.  There is a need to replace the  Iron Endeavour  which the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has had on the coast for some years now, sometimes operating full time and sometimes on a one-off one-overseas trip. There is a need for this work. All that honourable members opposite have to do is make up their minds and stop the Minister from foxing and clowning as he does when people who are concerned about their jobs and about the future of their industry come to see him. 
The Government has a responsibility to ensure the continued employment of some 2200 men at Whyalla, 1900 of them employed by BHP, 200 to 300 employed in the back-up industries which do the sub-contracting work, 2000 men employed at the State Dockyard and 300 to 400 men who provide the back-up to that particular industry. It is up to the Government to ensure that the countries which have cheap labour, about which the honourable member for Riverina is so concerned- Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Japan- are not building ships for Australian work at the expense of Australian workmen. The Government must stop the dumping on the Australian market of overseas built ships. There is a simple way out of it. It is better to employ Australians on building these ships than to employ people overseas. 
All the major overseas countries, including the United Kingdom and Sweden, are concerned with the dumping that is taking place. Japan has a serious problem because of the fall-off in the number of tankers and bulk ships being built throughout the world today, so Japan is prepared to build these ships for less than cost in order to use its shipyards to provide employment for its own people. Rather than find work for them this Government would sooner put Australian workers on the unemployment benefit and then call them dole bludgers. 
The previous Government found work for them and had shipyards in full time employment. Those are the facts. We accept that the Australian shipbuilding industry is labour intensive, which is unfortunate in a country which has probably the highest labour cost of any shipbuilding countries in the world. Other countries have highly capital intensive industries. It is time that the Government of this country did something about assisting to modernise and to bring Australian shipyards up to a standard where they can compete. I will not say for one second and I am not stupid enough to believe that the Australian shipbuilding industry can compete with Japan on prices. Japan has the most highly sophisticated shipbuilding industry in the world. It has taken away a lot of work from the United Kingdom and Sweden, which is another highly sophisticated shipbuilding country and which is highly capital intensive rather than labour intensive. 
I believe that the Australian industry is learning. The previous Government appointed a shipbuilding forum which went overseas last year. It contained representatives of management, trade unions and the men off the floor of the workshop. Together they looked at various shipyards throughout the world. The result of that forum has been a better understanding and realisation of just what is going on in shipyards throughout the world. As a younger man I was able to go overseas as a trade unionist and see what was going on. These people now have had an opportunity of knowing the position. There is a much different approach at the trade union level today. 
There is a need for the shipbuilding industry to get away from the multiplicity of trade unions. I see no reason why there cannot be a craft union and a non craft union in every shipyard. Jack Egerton and I were successful in Queensland in getting one industrial agreement which covered all the trade unions. The Liberal and Country parties have had 23 years to do something about it and they have done nothing. There is no reason why unions such as the Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia, the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union of Australia, the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia. the Transport Workers' Union of Australia, the Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association of Australasia and the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia in a shipyard could not be members of one union. The Liberal and Country parties have done aU they can to hinder and stop the amalgamation of trade unions, which is to the advantage of the industry in question. So we come to the point. There is a need for greater capital investment in the shipbuilding industry. There is a need for the Government to make up its mind. The Government has been in office for 6 months and a week now and has done nothing about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
How many cases were heard by New South Wales Supreme Court judges under the  Matrimonial Causes Act  1959- 1973 in 1975. 
In how many cases did a judge agree that a case would not be listed. 
In how many cases was the  decree nisi  made absolute forthwith. 
In how many cases was a  decree absolute  made no more than 32 days after the petition was filed. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Was  Mr Justice  Larkins the judge who arranged and conducted the expedited divorce hearing on 18 April 1975 concerning which the Attorney-General gave an answer on 23 March 1976  (Hansard,  page 869) and a personal explanation on 24 March 1 976  (Hansard,  page 94 1 ). 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What addresses were given for the petitioner and the respondent in the proceedings to which he referred in his personal explanation on 24 March 1976  (Hansard,  page 941). 
-I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring to a speech I made on 1 April in the grievance debate when I drew attention to the intrusion of FESCO, the Soviet national shipping line, into Australia 's overseas shipping by offering quite substantial discounts on freight rates. I ask the honourable gentleman: Is similar action being pursued by this shipping line in overseas countries where it is offering up to 40 per cent freight discount, which is causing much concern to both national and private shipping lines and also to the governments of those countries? Does he regard this intrusion by FESCO as part of the Soviet Union's foreign policy to have a major shipping presence in every country and on every ocean? Is he also aware that the United States Government, European governments, and only just recently the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, have all given an assurance that they will personally investigate this matter and do something about it? Finally I ask: What is the Government doing to ensure that it counters the intrusion of this Russian shipping line into Australian trade and, more importantly, into Australian ports and Australian waterways? 
I refer to the decision of the former Labor Government go build a navigational aid ship for the Department of Transport to service navigational aids between Darwin and Cairns. At this point I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the details of that ship. 
-Is the Minister for Defence concerned about the growing presence of Union of Soviet Socialist Republics shipping in the Indian Ocean? If so, does his anxiety cover naval, scientific and merchant shipping? 
-The Bill before the House at the moment will repeal the Road Safety and Standards Authority Act which I had the pleasure of introducing in 1975. The repeal of that legislation is a further example to everyone of the fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and this Government lack a transport policy. The Liberal-Country Party Government, during its former 23 years in office, displayed no initiative, no incentive and no real transport policy to endeavour to reduce costs and to make this country an easier one in which to move around. Unfortunately for Australia, we are returning to that era of 'let us hope that everything comes out all right'. Things just do not work out that way. They have to be planned, and unfortunately that is what this Government does not want to do. 
The decision of the Government to return the responsibilities of the Road Safety and Standards Authority to the Department of Transport is an economy measure with which I will deal in some detail at a later stage. I suggest to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that he might also dispense with the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. I know that the Government has announced that it will put them together under one authority. I agree with that decision and, once again, I thank the Government for taking up the decision that had been made before it came into office again on 13 December last year. That is a progressive and first-class decision. Why does the Government not get rid of the Australian National Line, the Australian Shipping Commission, TransAustralia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian National Railways Commission, the Federal Advisory Committee on Materials Handling and the Australian Shipbuilding Board? Why does the Government not hand the functions and activities of all those authorities over to various government departments? It might save a dollar here and there if it did that. Road accidents claim thousands of lives every year, at a cost of something like $ 1,000m. The Government will save a paltry $700,000 this year by putting the responsibility for the functions intended to be performed by the Authority back with the Department. As I said, that is a matter with which I will deal to a much greater degree later. 
The decision to set up the Road Safety and Standards Authority, which was taken by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975, was carefully considered and fully thought through as to just what was required and what we would and should include in the Authority. We referred the matter to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety so that the Committee could give us a report on what it thought. In other words, honourable members who had a keen interest in road safety were asked to give the Government a report on it. I took the opportunity, when overseas on a couple of occasions, to visit various government authorities and talk to them regarding what was being done by other governments in an endeavour to improve road safety. We put together all that information- the Standing Committee's report, the information which my Department was able to put together and the information which I was able to collect- and we came up with a decision to set up the Road Safety and Standards Authority. 
Likewise, we did not determine the Authority's location haphazardly or by accident. The Labor Government had made a decision to decentralise and to develop growth centres. The Albury-Wodonga growth centre, being located on the main road between Sydney and Melbourne, was the obvious place for it. At the same time, setting up the Authority in that location took it out of a capital city. We planned to locate a new airport alongside it so that these 2 transport facilities- the Road Safety and Standards Authority, with all the equipment that goes with it, and the airport- would be working side by side. We planned on ultimately taking away from Victoria the testing and training of pilots so that that would not create the problem it now does at Little River and Lara- two small towns in the electorate of Corio. That was all part of the overall planning. I hope that the Minister will read the files and put those first-class plans into operation. 
I give the Minister and his Country Party predecessor credit, first of all, for having become more interested in road safety than their predecessors were. They were subjected to great pressure from the community because of the increased number of deaths and accidents that were taking place on the roads. I also give them credit for having held conferences and for having brought people together on committees such as the Expert Group on Road Safety, but I am greatly disappointed that after receiving the report of the Expert Group in the middle of October 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government did nothing about its recommendations. Now, when it has another opportunity to act on those recommendations it is still doing nothing about them. In fact, it has taken a retrograde step. I have a feeling that the Minister for Transport would sooner be sitting on this side of the House today, taking part in the discussion, than sitting on the Government side and having to justify an unjustifiable decision that has been taken by his Government. Two of the 8 major recommendations of the Expert Group which was set up by his Government are worth repeating. One is: 
The Commonwealth Government should involve itself more directly in road safety and in other ways promote a more vigorous, co-ordinated and multi-disciplinary approach. 
This Bill is a clear example of what that recommendation advocates should not be done. It is a retrograde step, and the Government knows it. I do not propose to go through the 8 recommendations, but another important one that is worthy of mention is: 
An authoritative committee should be created to advise the Minister for Shipping and Transport on road safety research and information. This committee should take the place of the Expert Group. 
I agree with those recommendations. The Labor Government implemented them. The Expert Group recommended that money should be made available for road safety improvements and the like. In our first Budget we allocated $3m for that purpose. That was the first step. In the new roads legislation, brought in as part of the 1974 Budget, we made provision for$30m over the next 3 years. These were the recommendations of the Expert Group. The setting up of the Authority, the recommendation I readjust now, was another of its major recommendations. We carried out its recommendations, which we considered were first class. 
At this point I will give honourable members some information about what the Road Safety and Standards Authority was to do. In cooperation with the relevant State authorities, and other bodies with an interest in road safety, it would have formulated national safety standards for vehicles, highway engineering, traffic management and traffic law. It would have conducted research into factors affecting vehicles, roads, the road environment, road-user behaviour and the inter-relationship between them. It was also to establish a comprehensive information service and to develop a specific, scientifically evaluated, education and publicity program so that when money was allocated it would be spent and used in the best possible way. The specialised facilities available to the Authority would have enabled it to undertake high level research into key areas of vehicle safety, exhaust emissions and consumer protection. The extent and sophistication of the facilities would have been unique for a government authority concerned with road safety. There would have been a test track, impact test barrier, dynamic sled, experimental road system, specialised laboratories and related facilities. I saw a number of specialised road systems when I was overseas. People who had already made decisions on particular types told me that if they were starting afresh they would not adopt the same sort of thing. So one of the first jobs of the  chairman  of the Authority would have been to go overseas and ascertain the best type of equipment for the Authority to install. 
In regard to road environment, the Authority staff and interested bodies would have had access to off-road facilities which would have enabled comprehensive testing under controlled conditions of such things as breakaway poles, guard railing and crash barriers which would yield on impact and reduce the likelihood of injury to vehicle occupants. They were some of the things which were to have been carried out. Consumer protection was another most important responsibility of the Road Safety and Standards Authority. One has only to read the recently released report of the Australian Automobile Association to understand the need for such protection in Australia. 
-That is all right, but the Government is going backwards. That is what the Minister must understand. He does not agree with what the Government is doing. I believe he would like to be on this side of the House today. The report of the Australian Automobile 
Association clearly establishes the need for a body such as the one which we are now rejecting. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  referred to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. That report made mention of a hot line. This Parliament has not the constitutional power to enforce a hot line, but when we set up this body none of the motor car manufacturers were game to buck it. They know that there is a need for a body to be established to protect the consumers of this country. Even though we did not have the constitutional power to do it, we got away with it. The manufacturers know that there is a weakness in their set up. 
Another important responsibility of the Authority would have been to control pollution. The Labor Government was concerned with the quality of life in the cities. The Labor Party is still concerned with it. Unfortunately this Government is not. Tests which have been taken in all major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, show that at certain times of the day the level of carbon monoxide and oxidants exceeds by four and five times the World Health Organisation recommendations. We know that the motor car is responsible for 90 per cent of the carbon monoxide in the atmosphere in our major cities, 65 per cent of the hydrocarbons and 55 per cent of the nitrogen oxides. All these things go to creating unpleasant living and unnecessary conditions in cities today. They have an unpleasant effect on people. We were setting out to control this, but unfortunately the Government is putting the clock back. 
We know that the 6 State governments have their own road safety authorities, but there is no co-ordination. There is no understanding amongst them. They go their own happy way. There is no clear plan. We were setting out to achieve a plan by setting up an authority. The  Chairman, Mr Frank  Yeend, was a first class officer of the Department of Transport. He would have been able to do the job of  chairman.  The second member was Professor Cumming, a university professor, a man who has a personal interest in road safety. The other member was Clem Jones, the former Lord Mayor of Brisbane, a most dynamic personality. They would have been members of the Authority and would have been determining its policies. There would have been no political content in it. I believe that public servants can get on with the job. When I was endeavouring to put programs together to improve public transport I ran into trouble with Ministers, but I did not run into trouble with public servants. They were able to work together because they knew that what they were doing was in the interests of the people as a whole. The Minsters wanted to play pontics. There would not have been any playing of politics if the Authority had been running all these things. It was part of our overall policy in relation to transport, road safety and safety as a whole. 
The Authority was the first stage. There was before Cabinet a submission which was headed 'The Creation of a Statutory Authority for Transport Accident Investigation'. I hope that the Minister will take up this Cabinet submission, through the files of the Department of Transport, and get on with the job of creating, as the United States Government has created, a national transportation accident investigation board. The United States body was set up in 1967 to investigate air, sea, rail and road accidents. In Australia the Road Safety and Standards Authority is already established. The Australian accident investigation authority would be charged with the responsibility of investigating air, sea and rail accidents and, in the long term, road accidents. This country badly needs an authority that can investigate in an independent manner accidents which occur from time to time. That was the second stage of our plan. There is a great need for this sort of authority. Instead of having Caesar investigate Caesar, as we have when there is a rail accident- the railway investigates its own accident and obviously endeavours to cover up what is going on or faults on its part in the accident- the Authority would investigate. That is the whole situation as far as we are concerned. 
I have a table which sets out the number of road traffic accidents in Australia from 1965 to 1975. 1 do not think there should at any time be a discussion on road safety without the readers of  Hansard  being given the opportunity to see the figures clearly. Therefore I seek leave to have the table incorporated. 

<graphic href="099131197606022_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

-This table was prepared for me by the Statistics Group of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. It shows that in the 10 years between 1966 and 1975, 35 044 people lost their lives in road accidents. In the 10 years from 1965 to 1974, 864 553 people were injured in road accidents. With those figures at the back of our minds, let us look at what this Government is doing by repealing the legislation. This year it will save a paltry $700,000 in the Budget. How does the Government calculate the cost of the lives of people who are killed on the roads? How does it put a value on the lives of the 3691 people who were killed on the roads last year? Does it calculate that it is saving $700,000? I am afraid I cannot agree with the Government's method of determining the allocation of its funds. There is a need to spend money to save lives, to save people from being injured, to save people from being placed on invalid pensions for the rest of their lives because they have become vegetables, as we know that they do. Some persons do spend the rest of their lives on invalid pensions. Why? Because the parliaments of Australia are not prepared to put sufficient money into researching road accidents or developing a road system which will stand up to the speed and the type of vehicles that are using the system today. Yet to save a paltry $700,000 this Government is prepared to put in jeopardy the lives of the people who use our roads for pleasure or for business, including getting themselves to and from their place of employment. 
We estimated that the total cost of the Road Safety and Standards Authority would be $10m. That would set up the organisation to which I 

<graphic href="099131197606022_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

have referred. So we see the repeal of the legislation as a paltry penny-pinching action by this Government. It will kill more Australians, maim more Australians and put more Australians on social security, whether it is an invalid pension, a widow's pension or just a sickness benefit. I ask the Government to reconsider its decision because there is a great need to ensure a better road safety standard and system in Australia than the system which operates at the moment. Former governments with which the Minister has been associated indicated that they were aware of this need. In their time they could have done something about it. Unfortunately they did not. We did something very positive about it. I am completely opposed to the Bill. I hope that on this non-political issue honourable members will exercise their discretion and vote against the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Yesterday, in reply to the honourable member for Grey, he stated that if the Australian shipbuilding industry were to continue receiving shipbuilding orders there would have to be a substantial increase in productivity. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that 5 busloads of shipbuilding workers are in Canberra today to press their claims for work and continued employment? Will he now spell out in detail what his Government has in mind when it uses the term 'increased productivity'? Does this also mean that his Government is prepared to assist shipbuilders to modernise their yards which, in comparison with overseas yards, are in a very low state of productivity? Can he say when his Government proposes to hold discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the shipbuilders? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the existing flight paths for take-off and landing at Sydney Airport. 
In the event of a parallel North-South runway being built 1000 feet east of the existing 16/34 runway, as recommended by the Second Sydney Airport Committee, what would be the take-off and landing flight paths for this new runway. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What contracts were in force between the Australian Government and Gollin and Company Limited on 1 1 November 1975. 
What contracts have been entered into between the Australian Government and Gollin and Company Limited since 1 1 November 1975. 
In respect of each such contract, (a) which Minister had responsibility for authorising the granting of the contract to Gollin and Company Limited and (b) what representations on behalf of Gollin and Company Limited, were made by him or persons acting on his instructions. 
What approvals, licences, leases, authorisations, clearances or other favourable decisions have been sought by Gollin and Company Limited from Australian Government departments or authorities since 11 November 1975. 
5 ) In respect of such decisions, what representations have been made by him or persons acting on his behalf. 
What decision was made on each such application by Gollin and Company Limited. 
We have just listened to a raving, ratbag speech by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  about what goes on in the shipbuilding industry. He would not have a clue. He has never worked in a shipyard in his life. He referred to left wing unions and right wing unions. As a member of a Government committee he was most anxious to talk to the left wing unionists in Newcastle, Whyalla and other places. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on one point, namely, the industrial problems of the shipbuilding industry. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  referred to statements that I made when I was the Minister for Transport. I do not retract one of the statements that I made. Everything that I said was true. I set about doing something positive. Those opposite were in government for 23 years. They allowed this industry to deteriorate and be faced with many problems. Those problems have to some degree been rectified today. The Government has annihilated an industry that was in the course of rectifying its problems. The Minister asked what we did about the problems facing the industry. He released a statement last night that I had done nothing about the industrial problems. Let me say to honourable members opposite that they did nothing to assist amalgamation of unions. They frustrated our legislation in the Senate and set up legislation whereby it was almost impossible for unions to amalgamate. The Government created a situation whereby demarcation, resulting from a diversity of unions, could not be rectified. When we were in Government we tried to solve those problems. 
I refer honourable members to a publication put out by the Department of Transport called Shipbuilding Productivity and Industrial Relations in Australia. It is a report of the shipbuilding industry study mission in September-October 1974. Why did not the Liberal-Country Party Governments in 23 years of office come up with something like that? It took a Labor government with a Minister who knew something about what was happening in the industry to set about rectifying the problems facing the industry. The flow-on from this mission was a shipbuilding forum last year when further co-operation was built up between employer, employee and government. The outcome of that forum was that a shipbuilding council was set up and the parties were once again working together. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  who has the Whyalla shipyard in his electorate, can tell honourable members that when we were in Government and really doing something about the shipbuilding industry, industrial disputes did not occur so frequently. Like my colleague and friend in the New South Wales State Parliament,  Deputy  Premier Jack Ferguson, I am concerned and disappointed that the workers at the shipyards will be on strike tomorrow. I make no bones about it. I think it is a retrograde step. But I can understand the frustration of the men who have been working for the past 12 months in an endeavour to attain industrial stability. The  Chairman  of the Newcastle State Dockyard Committee, Ned Andrew, is a personal friend of mine. I know the work that that man has put in an endeavour to get some industrial stability, to stop unnecessary and stupid strikes that have taken place. The men on that committee now find that all their efforts have gone for nought and their industry is finished. The men employed in the shipbuilding industry will be on the dole in a very short time. We say to the Government: We did something positive to correct the industrial problems that beset this major and important industry. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been called to order on a couple of occasions in the last week because I called certain Ministers, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  liars.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will not allow me to use that term again, so I will not use it. I want to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that he is still telling untruths. I cannot say what I said about him the other day. I cannot repeat it. The Minister issued a statement last night which listed ships for which I allegedly placed orders overseas. In that statement he listed the  Australian Emblem.  You,  Mr Minister,  gave approval on 18 August 1972 for that ship to be built overseas. The Minister had better wake up to himself and learn what is going on around the place. I cannot call him a liar for making that statement but I think he has made a hell of a mistake in issuing it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Newcastle is aware of the Standing Orders. I think that is the third occasion on which he has made such an inference. It would be wiser if the honourable member proceeded with his speech. 
-I will not comment further on it,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I should like to put forward one point on the question that has been raised as to whether this Government is following the policies that were laid down by the Labor Government. That policy decision was made on 18 December 1973 and it was the result of an inter-departmental committee inquiry. The inter-departmental committee that was set up was not shelved. It reported and Cabinet made a decision by a majority vote- a very divided majority vote. The decision was made on 18 December 1973 when there was overemployment in Australia. We could not get a ship built anywhere in the world. The price paid for ships at that time represented the true cost of building them. When debating the Ship Construction Bounty Bill 1975 the present Minister for Transport, then in Opposition, as recorded at page 3256 of  Hansard  of 3 June 1975 said: 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill .... 
If the Minister is fair dinkum and intends to adopt all of our policies, why did he pick on this particular policy? Why did the Government abandon our decision to build the graving dock at Newcastle? Why did it abandon our 40-40-20 policy? Why did it abandon the decision to set up a Commonwealth-State shipbuilding corporation? Why did it get rid of the Road Safety and Standards Authority? Why did the Government abandon our policy of cost recovery? Why did it cut back expenditure on roads? 
If I had time, I could go on and on about the broken promises of this Government in relation to transport alone. The Government supported what we did and under totally different circumstances. When we made that decision we indicated that it would be reviewed in 3 years. In December 1976 it was to come up for review. I should like to place on record what we intended to do with the four 1 5 000 tonne ships in question that have been ordered overseas. The Government prefers employing Japanese labour to employing Australian labour. We had to make a decision on this matter when in Government. I submitted the matter to Cabinet last year for inclusion in the Budget. I am sorry to say that this submission and the proposition to purchase  James Cook  could not be accepted at that time because of the monetary problems we were facing. On 6 November last year, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who was then Treasurer, said that I could go ahead and purchase  James Cook  at a cost of $23m. The Minister knows that is a fact. He had to finally implement the decision. 
On 10 November the honourable member for Oxley and I made a decision in my room that we would not have these ships built overseas but that they would be built in Australia so that the Australian shipbuilding industry could be maintained. He requested me to put a submission to him that we go on with the job of building. We had no intention of putting Australians out of work. The fact of the matter is that it is a broken promise on the Government's part. I ask the Minister to read his Government's policy statement of May 1975 which was referred to by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Today's policy is certainly not the same policy as the policy of May last year. The Government has brought about the closure and the destruction of Australian shipbuilding. I did place orders overseas for 4 large bulk ships- two 120 000 tonners and two 140 000 tonners. But it was purely and simply because there was not one shipyard in Australia which could build ships of that size and you know it. You are only distorting the facts. 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is it true that most private health insurance funds are undercutting Medibank Private contribution rates for intermediate and private ward cover by in many cases in excess of $1 a week? Is it also true that while Medibank Private is required to pay the equivalent of State taxes to federal Consolidated Revenue it cannot draw on $2 10m of invested reserves to subsidise its contribution rates? Will the Government review the contribution rates set by Medibank Private and provide it with funds to match the reserves of the private funds or abolish the equivalent payment of State taxes so that Medibank Private can compete effectively with private health insurance funds? 
We have just listened to a speech about the oil industry. One of the strange things about that industry is that none of the companies is prepared to reduce the price of oil but we can obtain anything upwards of 10c a gallon off the price. Notwithstanding what the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has said, I think it is an industry which bears close investigation. The commission that was set up by the Whitlam Labor Government set out to do just that- to expose the inequalities within that industry and try to put it on a decent footing whereby the Australian motorist, the user of the fuel and oil would at least get a fair go from it. 
I rise to support the amendment proposed by the Opposition. So that every honourable member will know what that amendment is, I shall read it to the House. It is as follows: the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence 
I am certain that if this Government were put to an election today there would be a change of personnel in this place. Certainly we on this side of the House would be occupying the benches opposite. We all recall the manner in which the Labor Party was subjected to Press vilification in relation to unemployment and the increase in inflation in the year or 2 years prior to the general election and prior to the take-over by the Governor-General and the people who now form the Government. We were told that it was all the Labor Party's fault. The Murdock Press was the loudest crier of opposition to the Government. I shall read the editorial of the  Australian  on Saturday, 5 June 1976. How marvellous it is that this newspaper changed its views after the power and wealth of this country had unloaded a government that was in the process of bringing greater equality and fairness to the people of this country. The first paragraph of this editorial states: 
In 1974, led by the economic big six- America, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Italy- the world marched into the biggest slump since the 1 929 crash. It happened because the Arabs more than doubled the price of oil, the lifeblood of economic growth. 
It happened not, as the Murdoch Press had been saying for months and months, because of the tilings that the Labor Government was doing. The truth came out after it had achieved its objective of defeating a Labor Government. We have seen this type of thing go on over the years. The second paragraph of the editorial reads: 
Since then Australia, in common with most countries of the world, has suffered just on 2 years of recession, with low or nil growth, high interest rates, roaring inflation, low commodity prices and high unemployment It has been a terrible time and we have been among the more fortunate in that our standard of living has not dropped appreciably. 
Is it not remarkable that, having removed the Labor Party from government, it then admitted that the things which had happened in this country at that time were not the result of the policies of the Whitlam Labor Government, which set out to improve the standard of living of the people of this country? So we have to contend with this phoney Government, which is led by one of the most conservative, class conscious persons that this country has been unfortunate enough to have as its Prime Minister since Federation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  went to the polls on an unfair and untruthful policy. He went throughout this country telling lies about what a Liberal-National Country Party government would do. 
The policy he announced was supposedly designed to reduce the level of inflation and unemployment. Let us look at what has occurred in the period in which the Government has been in office. There has been no improvement in the inflation situation. There has been an increase in the number of unemployed. Figures which I will table in a moment clearly establish just what has happened. I seek leave to incorporate 2 tables in  Hansard.  They have been taken from publications issued by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and clearly show the position as far as the Australian unemployment situation is concerned. A comparison month by month of the figures this year as against last year reveals in every case that there has been an increase in the level of unemployment in the period in which this Government has been in office. In August of this year 267 886 people were unemployed. In August of last year the figure was 248 229. In July of this year the figure was 270 286 and for the same month last year the figure was 25 1 622. That is the trend for the whole of this year in comparison with last year. The policy announced by the Fraser Government at the last election of restoring employment and reducing unemployment was phoney. It is another of its broken election promises. This is shown clearly in those figures to which I have referred. If honourable members opposite take the time to sit down and read them they will see that they are the guilty people today. They have done absolutely nothing about the situation. In my electorate - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! Is the honourable member for Newcastle seeking leave to have documents incorporated in  Hansard? 
-Yes. I have sought it. I want to have incorporated both the document to which I have already referred and another one which spells out the unemployment situation in the Newcastle district. 
-It has the best member it has ever had. It is a pity the Riverina area does not have one as good. 
-Has the Minister for Transport issued a financial directive to the Australian National Airlines Commission to budget for a 15 per cent dividend this financial year? Will that directive put financial pressure on Trans-Australia Airlines to increase air fares? How can a government which is allegedly trying to control inflation justify that directive when the directive of the former Minister for Transport was for an 8.5 per cent dividend? Was the Minister's directive the result of pressure from Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and was the purpose of that pressure to allow that company to increase its profits? Does not the Minister consider that an 8.5 per cent dividend is fair and reasonable-- 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Yesterday the right honourable gentleman, in reply to a question by the honourable member for Higgins, gave a most provocative answer. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether any United States of America nuclear powered submarine or surface ship has ever been involved in any operational failure or accident resulting in any radiation leak in a port or on the open sea. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Transport, one of the things which concern me is the way in which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is allowing the Department of Transport to be run down. In the very short time in which he has been the Minister for Transport we have seen the way in which the allocation for public transport has been frozen, and I will deal with that at greater length when the relevant legislation comes before this chamber. We have also seen the way in which the establishment of a road safety and standards authority has been thrown over and the way in which the Government has not proceeded with the setting up of the Inter-State Commission to investigate the transport requirements of this country. It will be remembered that we accepted an amendment from the present Minister for Transport when the legislation to set up that commission was being debated. If ever a country needs an Inter-State Commission, particularly one concerned with transport requirements, it is this country with the length of our railways, sea lanes, roadways and airways, and the associated problems. The thing which really concerns me is that the Minister for Transport who is supposed to be a senior member of the Government- he is a Cabinet Minister- is allowing his Department to become a second rate Department as it was prior to 1972. 1 hear an honourable member on the Government side protesting that he is a good Minister. He may be a good Minister, but he is making a hell of a mess of transport, and that is what we are discussing here tonight. We are not discussing Peter Nixon; we are discussing the question of transport. 
One of the initiatives which we were on the verge of introducing- in fact, a Cabinet submission on this matter had been presented- was the setting up of a transport accident investigation authority. It is a project which I consider to be of major importance. It was the next major project which we were going to undertake. It is something in which the whole transport industry is interested. Over recent years there has been public comment on the issue of conflict of interest arising from the responsibility of the Department of Transport, on the one hand, for the regulation of transport, including safety, and for the provision of facilities and services and, on the other hand, for the conduct of certain safety investigations. At present several divisions of the Department of Transport are responsible for devising and/or applying transport safety standards, particularly in the air and marine fields. There is also a separate air safety investigation branch for investigating all aircraft accidents and air safety incidents. At present this branch acts under the delegation of the powers and responsibilities conferred upon the Secretary of the Department of Transport in the Air Navigation Regulations and reports directly to the Secretary. 
Where an aircraft accident has been investigated by the Department and the Minister considers it desirable in the public interest, he may appoint a board of accident inquiry to inquire into the causes of the accident and other specified matters. 
One can refer briefly to some of the accidents that have occurred in the aircraft industry over recent years. There was the Ansett Viscount which crashed at Port Hedland. There was no public inquiry into that crash. There was the Winton accident in respect of which there was a public inquiry. There was the confusion and the antagonism within the aircraft industry concerning the incident involving a Pan Am Boeing 707 at Sydney. There was the incident involving a Pan Am Boeing 747 when the late  Sir Donald  Anderson took to task the captain of the Boeing 747 about the ILS system. We must not forget the incident involving a TAA Boeing 727 and a Canadian Pacific DC8. All of these incidents should have been the subject of inquiry, of deep and detailed investigation by an authority in a position to make such an inquiry. 
Departmental investigations are made into accidents and hazards concerning ships, and through the Navigation Act the Minister is empowered to appoint investigators for this purpose. Also he can refer occurrences to courts of marine inquiry for public investigation when he thinks this is necessary. However, there is no separate branch to carry out investigations which are made by officers of the Department whose normal duties are concerned with the setting or application of marine safety standards. Once again in the field of shipping one has only to refer very briefly to the  Noongah  inquiry. It was a most unsatisfactory inquiry and a most unsatisfactory situation. The same thing could be said about the  Sedco Helen  disaster, the  Atlas  dredge, the  Blythe Star  and the fire on the  Amanda Miller  which destroyed the ship whilst it was on the slipway. Just recently there was the incident involving the  Cellana  in Sydney Harbour. That matter is at present under inquiry and I cannot say anything more about it. 
I turn to the railways. In the Australian National Railways accident investigations are usually made by the heads of branches involved acting either singly or jointly as may be necessary. In this way the authority examines its own accidents and there are no distinct institutional arrangements for handling such work. However, when accidents involve the loss of life the Minister may appoint a board of inquiry with powers similar to those of a royal commission. Turning to roads, there are virtually no investigations conducted by the Department of Transport in respect of road accidents. However, there are provisions in the Constitution which would authorise legislation to confer on an authority power to investigate a wide range of road transport accidents which could be held to come within the jurisdiction of the Australian Government. One has only to refer to the bus fatality in the Snowy Mountains region and to draw attention to the fact that an expert group on road safety in its report of September 1972 recognised the value of in-depth investigations of particular accidents or causes of accidents. That inquiry was initiated by the present Government. There is any amount of evidence to support the establishment of the sort of inquiry or tribunal to which I am referring. 
I propose that the responsibility for the investigation of accidents and some other hazardous occurrences in all modes of transport should be brought together under a single independent authority that reports directly to the Minister for Transport. I am not saying this in any disparaging terms to the Secretary of the Department, for whom I have the greatest respect. I appointed him to that position and I think that he is one of the best Permanent Heads in the Commonwealth Public Service. I congratulate the Minister for Transport for retaining him. I believe that the requirement for such an authority to report directly to the Minister would lead to the most efficient use of the technical and other resources available and also would be compatible with the integration of the Australian Government's involvement in the planning, development and regulation of transport. In the United States of America the National Transport Safety Board was set up for a similar purpose in 1967. It is virtually independent of the Department of Transport. Furthermore, the Canadian Government has indicated that it is likewise going to set up such an authority. When I was in the United States of America in 1975 I had reason to confer with  Mr Coleman,  the Secretary of the Department of Transport, who assured me that, even though it was not his Administration's decision, it was most satisfied with the way in which the Board is working and that he would highly recommend it to any government. 
Such a transport accident investigation authority could be responsible for investigating all aircraft accidents as well as marine, road and rail accidents which fall within the Australian Government's jurisdiction. It could also investigate other safety occurrences referred to it by the Minister for Transport. The authority could take over the accident investigation work currently carried out within the Department and the Australian National Railways. It could report on the investigations it carries out and be able to make such recommendations to the Minister as it deems appropriate to avoid accidents in the future. The major aim of this proposal is to make the process of investigation independent of the Department of Transport and kindred bodies. 
The authority could be empowered to conduct investigations in public and could be required to do so when requested by the Minister. That would avoid the need to set up individual independent boards or courts of inquiry for each occurrence, as happens under the existing legislation, and would ensure that staff experienced in public inquiries into transport matters is continually available. Furthermore, if this authority were established and became operative I should hope that the States would be prepared to refer some of their transport accidents to it for investigation. I am really setting out to try to achieve a means of getting away from the position in which one is appealing from Caesar to Caesar and in which Caesar is investigating Caesar. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I was misrepresented on 2 occasions, firstly by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and secondly by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  who has just resumed his seat, on the score of their allegations that I was responsible for the closure of 3 shipyards. That is completely untrue. The fact is that the Adelaide - 
-I am not debating the matter. 
-You did. 
-I beg your pardon,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The  position  is that I was misrepresented when it was claimed that I was responsible for the closure of Adelaide Ship 
Construction, the Walkers Ltd shipyard at Maryborough and the Evans Deakin and Co. Pty Ltd shipyard. Evans Deakin closed down the other day during the term of office of the present Minister for Transport. Adelaide Ship Construction closed down in March 1973 when the owners of the shipyard, the Adelaide Shipping Company, placed an order with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shipyards at Whyalla to build a ship for its fleet. 
-In respect of Walkers shipyard, it had orders for 3 ships and $83/4m worth of work when it closed down. The yard made the decision to close, not the Labor Government. We made an offer to go into partnership with Walkers but the Liberal and National Country Parties would not be in it. 
-I am not trying to do that. All I am trying to do is show you- 
-Sit down yourself you mug. 
-I have told you before that you ought to be locked up in a zoo. 
-I beg your pardon,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If I were to go into the details of the 3 shipyards mentioned it would take the best part of an hour and I know that you would not allow me to transgress to that degree, and I would not anyway. 
-The other point on which I was misrepresented concerned the question of policy, the Australian Labor Party's policy on shipbuilding, and it was said that it was my policy. I want to make it clear that it was never my policy. I opposed it as strongly as I could, and whenever and wherever I could. Let me make it clear that it was not Charlie Jones's policy. He was just as much opposed to it as the honourable.member for Grey  (Mr Wallis). 

 Mr ABEL (Eva'ns)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In many ways I join with the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  in what he has just had to say. I hope that he continues to pursue some of the policies that he outlined here this afternoon. But I take the opportunity of drawing his attention to a couple of little factors. First and foremost, both the honourable member for Braddon and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who I regret to say is not in the chamber - 
-I cannot help that. It is his Bill which is in the Parliment at the present time. He did not pay the shadow Minister for Transport the usual courtesy of being present. The fact is that he is not in the chamber. If he comes in later that will indeed be an improvement; at least he will know what is being said in the Parliament. 
The Minister for Transport and the honourable member for Braddon said that it was a criminal offence that I restricted orders on rolling stock to a year to year basis. If the honourable member for Braddon and the Minister had done their homework and researched the position- I know the Department of Transport would have advised the minister that the words in his speech were incorrect- they would have realised that the real reason for the year to year approval of rolling stock was clearly and simply that we were developing a standard urban passenger train. Eighteen million dollars had been approved by the former Labor Government to get on with the research and development of the prototype. When the prototype was approved we would then have been prepared to approve long term rolling stock programs. That was the concept behind the whole idea. Therefore we worked on the basis of year to year approvals until such time as we got the standard carriage under way. 
-As my colleague says, honourable members opposite would not know. But the Minister knew it because he would have been advised by the Department- I know the Department well enough for that But he was not prepared to spoil a good story by using facts. In other words, what is wrong with a little white lie or, rather an untruth? 
The vehicle emission controls that are attached to motor cars today and to which the honourable member for Braddon rightly drew attention, were the result of a decision of the Whitlam Labor Government. I hope that the honourable member for Braddon will continue to display interest in road safety. The way we kill people unnecessarily on Australian roads does necessitate Australian Government involvement. It was the honourable member's Government that disbanded the Road Safety and Standards Authority which we set up and which was recommended to this Parliament by an expert group. When the honourable member's Government was in office it saw fit to ignore the report. We put it together. The Labor Government established the Authority and the honourable member's Government disbanded it. I just hope that the honourable member for Braddon will be sincere, and fair dinkum and help put the Road Safety and Standards Authority back where it should be- in operation and doing a job in an endeavour to protect the lives of the people. 
A lot has been said about the 1972 Bureau of Transport Economics report,  Economic Evaluation of Capital Investment in Urban Public Transport.  Let us get the picture clear. That study was forced down the neck of the Minister for Transport by the State Ministers for Transport. He was jammed into the position of having to agree to it at the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting. They tried and tried on a number of occasions, and finally in 1971 he was embarrassed into a position of having to agree to it. I asked honourable members to read the summary of the report. It will show how reluctantly the bridegroom was dragged to the wedding. It was really a shotgun marriage. This report was prepared as a basis for the report of the Standing Committee of Advisers to the Australian Transport Advisory Council on urban public transport needs in this decade. It states: 
The role of the Bureau of Transport Economics was constrained by the circumstances of the study to a survey on capital expenditure considered necessary by State authorities for the period 1973-74 to 1977-78, a social benefit cost evaluation of selected range of investment proposals and a supporting review of statistical and financial data. 
What happened to the Victorian Government? It would not co-operate. It would not make any information available. In fact, the then Victorian Minister for Transport canvassed the other Liberal State Ministers of Transport in an endeavour to get them to drop the whole idea. He went to them and said: 'We do not want to be part and parcel of this'. But they did not agree with him, and I am pleased to say that the study went on. Now the Federal Minister for Transport has claimed in his second reading speech that the urban public legislation that the Labor Government put through was his legislation. Let us get a few more facts on the legislation. As honourable members know, the report is dated June 1972. A Liberal-National Country Party Budget was introduced in August 1972. Not one cent was included in it to provide assistance for urban public transport. Honourable members opposite could have done something but did not do anything about it when they had an opportunity. Do not let them tell me that they did not have time. I was elected a Minister on 18 December 1972. Cabinet authorised me to go to the February 1973 meeting of ATAC in Hobart and make an offer to the State Ministers of Transport on what we were prepared to do to improve urban public transport. The difference between the Labor Government and the Liberal-National Country Party Government that preceded it was that the Liberal Government could have and did not, and the Labor Government could have and did. 
Look at how Fraser has broken the promises he made in the election campaign last year and at what has happened in the short period since the election of 13 December last year. When the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  was Prime Minister he made a promise on urban public transport in his election speech. Incidentally, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  put a more generous proposition on urban public transport and the present Minister for Transport wanted to put him in prison because he divulged at that time the contents of the document to which I have referred. I am pleased to say that certain responsible people involved in transport made sure that Gough Whitlam and I had a copy of it so that we knew what was going on in the field of transport. Honourable members opposite wanted to gaol Whitlam because he divulged the contents of the report, which was one of public interest. I ask honourable members to bear these few facts in mind. 
The honourable member for Braddon is a Tasmanian member. As far as the report is concerned, Tasmania does not even exist. There is nothing in it for Tasmania. Is the honourable member proud of that as a Liberal member for Tasmania? This marvellous report did not even give the guys from Tasmania a mention. They were not even included in it. That was the Liberal Party's attitude towards them. Were 
Geelong, Newcastle or Wollongong, or the corridors between these 3 cities and the major capital cities, considered in this report? Of course they were not. The Labor Government made provision whereby Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong were all eligible for and entitled to assistance. The same thing applied to Hobart. Assistance was given to Tasmania by the Labor Government. Those are the facts. Government supporters should not come forward with all this bunkum about the legislation being Nixon's legislation. People in the Department of Transport call him Charlie Nixon. He has done nothing new since he was re-appointed Minister for Transport. There has been no new initiative for which a study had not already been commenced in some way before he was reelected as Minister for Transport. The Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme is an example of this. The Labor Government was the first government that ever gave Tasmania any assistance in the form of shipping subsidies. It set up the committee which produced a final report on this matter. 
Let us get the facts clear on the legislation we have before us today. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  said that the appropriation this year represented an increase of 90 per cent over that provided last year. Why does he not tell the truth? Why play with figures? That is all he did. They were not even attractive figures. Last year the Labor Government allocated $40.3m plus $2.5m for cost escalation, making a total of $42.8m. What did the present Government do when it took office? It immediately set out to cancel the sum of $2.5m which had been provided for cost escalation. It reduced the allocation by $2m. The States then underspent the total allocation by $4.4m. That brought the figure back to $33. 9m. What has the Government done with the amount of $8.9m? Why do you not tell us the truth instead of fiddling around with figures? That is all you have done. Let us look at the Budget Papers. They will tell us the real story. The second last paragraph of page 78 of Budget Paper No. 7 reads: 
No new projects have been approved for commencement either in 1975-76 or 1976-77. 
None of this money was allocated by the present Government. It all came from previous allocations made by the Whitlam Labor Government in the 2 Bills that it had passed in 1974. In July 1974 there was an allocation of $71,910,000. In October 1974 there was an allocation of $66,110,000. That made a total of $138,020,000. That is the money we provided, and that is the money being allocated under this legislation. If Government supporters want any further proof of what I am saying they should turn to page 38 of Budget Paper No. 4 and look at the figures. They wm* see there an appropriation of $25,305,000 under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, an appropriation of $33,788,500 under the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, and an appropriation of $5,506,500 under the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1976. In reality, that is what this Government is allocating. The rest is money which the Whitlam Labor Government allocated in the 2 pieces of legislation which were passed in 1974. I say to Government supporters: 'Please tell the truth. Do not hedge around. Do not fiddle around with figures'. That is all they are doing. 
Let us consider the achievements of the Labor Government in its handling of the question of transport. It put through legislation concerning transport which the former Liberal-National Country Party Government could have passed in 1972, but did not do so. Co-operation was obtained from the States in relation to projects such as the development of the urban passenger train. Every State Minister, Labor and Liberal, with the exception of Ray Meagher in Victoria, supported the project. What has been the result? The carriage that was developed in all those studies is almost identical with the carriage in use in Victoria today. 
A standard bus was developed also. The manufacturers of rolling stock and the manufacturers of buses told us conclusively that if we could develop a standard carriage and a standard bus it would save the governments of this country millions of dollars. Honourable members opposite were in government for 23 years and did nothing about it. To show what type of people they are when it comes to urban passenger transport, let me inform the House that they have abandoned the idea of developing a standard passenger carriage. 
In Sydney the study on the ParramattaHoxton Park-Castle Hill Railway has been abandoned. All the honourable members opposite want to do is to let things run down. The honourable member for Braddon who spoke a few moments ago said not one word about what is to be done to provide additional buses for cities with populations of under 100 000. The Labor Government realised that it had to get on with the job. A study which was commissioned recommended that assistance be provided by the Australian Government for the purchase of buses to serve those small cities with fewer than 100 000 people. 
Before 1 turn to the matters that are to be excluded I want to deal once again with the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport. I smiled to myself when I read the latter paragraphs of it where he said:. 
I have always been conscious of the importance to Australia of overseas developments in urban transport In June this year I attended the European Conference of Ministers of Transport in Toulouse. This conference consists of 1 8 European ministers. 
Time does not permit me to read all of it. The credit for Australia's becoming a member of the ECMT does not go to the Liberal-National Country Party Government. It was the Labor Government which was responsible for that. Once again the present Government and the Minister have picked up another Labor Party initiative from where I left off. 
Let me deal very quickly with the table incorporated in the second reading speech, which shows the items which are to be deleted. There has been a lot of talk from the Minister and from the honourable member for Braddon that the Labor Government stood over the States. Let me say to the Minister, to the honourable member for Braddon and to the other honourable member who may speak on this Bill later on, that the Labor Government required the States to submit programs. We asked them to submit programs for which they wanted financial assistance. We provided two-thirds of the cost of those programs. That was our involvement in them. 
Any program that was submitted had to be evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics whose findings, as everyone knows, are accepted and respected by everyone concerned with transport whether they be in State government, Federal government, or private industry. What concerns me is the decision, for example, to delete the East Hills-Glenfield railway section in New South Wales and the Sutherland-Waterfall railway. In Victoria it is proposed to delete all the signal improvements at Clifton Hill and the Glen Waverley model line. I am concerned about the deletion of these major projects from those programs because of what is involved. 
I draw to the attention of honourable members from Queensland the fact that the cross river bridge that is under construction in Brisbane today is being constructed because the Whitlam Labor Government supported it and provided two-thirds of the cost. Furthermore, it is interesting to note that the Queensland Minister for Transport did not submit any amendment to the program approved by the so-called dictatorial Whitlam Labor Government. He is quite satisfied with the money that Queensland received from the Labor Government and has not suggested any amendments to the programs which Queensland submitted and which we approved. I hope that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who is sitting at the back of the chamber will take note of that fact. The Queensland Government does not want to put the trams back on in Brisbane, as the honourable member has advocated, and he can thank the Whitlam Labor Government for the new buses that are operating in Brisbane today. The Whitlam Labor Government provided the money for those buses. The Queensland Government was not prepared to do anything about them or to give one cent in assistance. 
I do not have time to deal with the projects to which I have just referred. I am disappointed that they have been deleted. They are all of major importance. If honourable members opposite were to study the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics they would see that the Bureau has given each of them a very favourable recommendation. Each of them has been reported upon in detail. The benefits that would flow from them would be of immense value and assistance to the people who live in those localities. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  to take note of the fact that this Government has been in office for 10 months, has presented its first Budget, and still there is no sign whatsoever of any activity around the Brisbane Airport, about which the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has spoken so often. Now that he is in a position to do something about this matter, he does nothing. Nothing nas been done by the honourable member for Bowman about the Brisbane Airport. I invite him to consider what was done by the Whitlam Labor Government in this matter in the very short period in which it was in office. I mention the new international terminal that is meeting a requirement in Brisbane. I refer also to the reasonable access roads that were provided by the Whitlam Labor Government. Nothing has been done by the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. When honourable members talk about the Brisbane Airport, they should thank the Labor Government for the improvements that have taken place there. 
The Bill before the House is the usual Air Navigation (Charges) Bill which forms part of the Budget. I know that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has again backpedalled on one of the Government's election policies. The Government has picked up the policy of the 
Whitlam Labor Government and imposed a 15 per cent increase. I notice that the Minister has introduced in this legislation a new provision for the imposition of a 10 per cent surcharge if the aviation industry does not pay its bills on time. He has thereby applied another screw to the aviation industry. 
Those are the actions of a government that was critical of some of the things that were done by the Whitlam Labor Government. There has been no relaxation of any of the charges that have been levelled against the aviation industry. There has been a re-arrangement of the operations of overseas airlines in Australia. I congratulate the Minister on pursuing once again another of the Australian Labor Party's policies. I refer to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of Wednesday, 3 November headed: Rents to Rise 500 per cent at Sydney', which reads: 
Persistence has paid off for the Commonwealth Department of Transport in its determination to increase rents at Sydney Airport's international terminal building to what it calculates is an economic level. 
When I wanted to do that I was criticised. It was said that I was persecuting the airline industry. I congratulate the Minister for picking up another of my policies on transport. He is not called Charlie Nixon' for nothing. I agree that they are charges that should be levelled on the industry. The cost of cleaning the terminal at the Sydney International Airport was only just paid for by the rentals that were received from the airlines. The rentals went nowhere near meeting the other charges, which came to well over $2m. I think that the decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in this respect was a good one. The rental charged is a fair one. 
I return to the subject of cost recovery.  Mr Speaker,  I have before me a table in relation to which I have sought the approval of the Minister for Transport for its incorporation in  Hansard.  It shows the cost recovery figures in millions of dollars from the years 1971-72 to 1975-76 and uses the Minister's forecast of the estimated deficit this year. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
-As I was saying to honourable members, the maritime industry meets the full cost of all maritime charges, even port dues. Most of the State governments make a profit out of their various maritime services boards, harbour authorities or whatever they are called. The maritime industry meets the full cost of its operations while the aviation industry meets only 60 per cent of its costs. Only an interstate commission with the power and authority that such a body holds is capable of carrying out the investigations needed to get over this problem. 
Another matter I want to deal with very quickly- this involves air navigation chargesrelates to an agreement between the Australian Department of Transport and the Government of Papua New Guinea. I seek leave to incorporate the whole of that Agreement in  Hansard  because part of it cannot be dealt with out of context. I have taken this Agreement from the annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation for 1973. 
-I thank the House. This was an agreement entered into between the then Department of Civil Aviation and the Government of Papua New Guinea for the setting up of a joint airline to be operated by Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia and Air Niugini. The basis of representation on the board was that the 2 government authorities, TAA and Qantas, would receive 24 per cent of the shares, Ansett would receive 16 per cent and Air Niugini would retain 60 per cent. At that time Papua New Guinea was offered the full operation but it wanted to involve Australia. The agreement included the following: 
DCA would transfer all its existing aerodromes, navi- gation facilities and other assets, mutually agreed, to the P apua New Guinea Government at no cost. The total value of these assets is approximately $24.5m. Aerodrome works at Port Moresby and Nadzab, involving an estimated expenditure of $13.5m, would proceed as planned, with costs being met by the Australian Government. 
All those things are a charge against air navigation charges. They are part and parcel of what is met under this legislation. What concerns me is that after that agreement was reached between the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea, the Minister for Transport in Papua New Guinea, and 2 Australian Ministers,  Mr Morrison,  Minister for External Territories, and myself, the Minister for Transport, we now find that the Papua New Guinea Government is trying to get out of that agreement. I feel strongly about this matter. The agreement was made between the 2 governments and it was clearly understood. Everyone was in agreement. We now find that the Papua New Guinea Government, the Government of a country for which Australia has done a considerable amount and has provided substantial financial assistance along the lines I just read to honourable members, is trying to get not the whole Australian involvement but just the Australian Government involvement. 
This is all part and parcel of what an airline operator in Australia has been doing over the years- duchessing people and influencing people- so that his airline would get preferential advantage over other people. When the Minister for Transport makes a decision on this matter he  can be assured of my maximum support in saying to the New Guinea Government that if it wants all the Australian airlines out that will be OK, we will accept that, but it is either all out or all in; never mind picking the eyes out of it. It was good enough for Papua New Guinea to take the money of the Australian people in the form of airports and the navigation facilities that were provided. A new airport was built and the main airport at Port Moresby was upgraded so that it could take modern international aircraft. Now, having got all those things, Papua New Guinea wants to kick TAA and Qantas out of the operation. The whole thing smells as far as I am concerned. I say again to the Minister that if he is big enough and if this Government is big enough to say that all the Australian operators will be in or out, I will strongly support that stand. 
There is another matter I want to deal with in the last few minutes available to me. It is the question of landing charges on an international level. Once again I seek leave of the House to incorporate a table in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many ships have been (a) built and (b) ordered from United States of America shipyards for the Royal Australian Navy over the last 20 years. 
What is the (a) actual and (b) estimated cost of each ship. 
Have any offset arrangements been negotiated by the Government or any Australian company with the U.S. builder or U.S. Government. 
Has the Government given any assistance in negotiations; if so, to what extent. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  National Times  of 12-17 July 1976 that the Federal Government is likely to take an extra-large suite at the Windsor Hotel in Melbourne on a permanent basis. 
Has the Government considered taking accommodation on a long-term basis in any Melbourne hotel; if so, for what purpose. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the recent statement at a productivity conference in Melbourne by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in which he urged companies to provide worker participation schemes in their managerial affairs? Does the Minister agree with his colleague's statement, and if so can he say when he is going to appoint a trade union representative to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd, following the resignation of Jack Egerton from all trade union activities? Also, can he say when he is going to appoint trade union representatives to the National Airlines Commission and to the National Material Handling Bureau which are commissions and authorities under his jurisdiction. 
-The 2 Bills before the House at the moment are the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill and the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. The first Bill provides for the financing of 3 Boeing 747 aircraft at a maximum total cost of $US1 17m. The airline has to find 20 per cent of the cost of the aircraft. The Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill seeks the financing of a Boeing 727-200 aircraft for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd at a cost of $8m. Once again the company has to find 20 per cent of the cost of the aircraft. What concerns me about the debate before the House at the moment is the attitude of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Where is he tonight? He is nowhere to be seen. He introduces the Bills into the House and that is the finish of it. In fact, it might be of interest to honourable members to realise what has occurred. I think some of the Government back benchers ought to wake up to the contempt with which their Minister is treating them. It is the Minister's responsibility and a courtesy that he should extend to the House at all times when one of his Bills is being debated to be here in the chamber to listen to the debate and, if need be, to reply to any criticism levelled at his Bills. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that in the lifetime of this Parliament, which is not quite 12 months, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  has been absent from the chamber when nine of the Bills for which he is responsible have been dealt with. I do not have time to list each of the Bills. But if honourable members want to look at the list that has been prepared they will see that it shows he was absent from the chamber when nine of his Bills were being dealt with in less than 12 months. It probably means that he was in attendance at an absolute maximum during the debate on one or two Bills. 
I turn to the financing of these 2 projects dealt with in the 2 Bills before the House. I sought information from the Minister's staff as to the procedure for the financing of these purchases. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  put before the Parliament his ideas on financing. I suggest to the honourable member that he should read just how the aircraft purchases are financed. I assume that the same procedures will apply in the purchase of these 4 aircraft as applied on previous occasions. The honourable member will find that the United States ExportImport Bank provides 40 per cent of the cost and the aircraft manufacturer in the main provides a further 40 per cent either out of its funds or assists the Australian airline to negotiate quite reasonable and satisfactory loans from other sources of finance either in the United States of America or in Canada. Invariably, the interest rate is much below the world going rate for finance. This is a clear indication of the United States Government's attitude and how it attempts to assist its industries. In the export and manufacture of aircraft, that Government assists the manufacturers in the basic design of the aircraft, using defence commitments and the like. Then, when the aircraft come on to the production line to be sold on the world market, it assists by the use of cheap money. It is a pity that Australian governments do not do likewise for 
Australian industries; that is, make money available for the usual procedure of trying to sell Australian manufactured goods on overseas markets. 
I come back to the point that not only does the Government and this Minister in particular treat this chamber in contempt by not being present here. In addition, he is not prepared to make members conversant with just how these borrowings are to be financed in the fine detail that is so necessary. When honourable members seek the information, he is not prepared to make it available. He does not say: 'No, you cannot have it'. But we do not get it. One way is just as effective as the other. The Minister's second reading speech which was cut to the absolute minimum gives no detail of the financing and no detail on the important question of the economics of these aircraft, how the companies propose to use them or the overall effects. In the case of Qantas Airways Ltd, from reading the company's annual report and knowing a little about what is going on inside the airline, I accept the fact from that personal background knowledge that it is changing over to the new aircraft because of the clear economics of the Boeing 747 aircraft as against the Boeing 707-300 series aircraft. The Boeing 747 aircraft is a much better aircraft. It is a much more economical aircraft to operate. Therefore, I can understand why the company is buying it. I now turn to deal with the position of the domestic airlines. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is now buying an aircraft after Trans-Australia Airlines forces it into the position. Representatives of TAA came to me as the Minister at the time and said: 'We must change over these Boeing 727-100 series aircraft. They are out of date. They have been in the air too long. We think we should be permitted to buy a more modern aircraft- the Boeing 727-200 aircraft'. The reaction of Ansett to that proposal was as follows: No, let us go on operating them a little longer. We can squeeze a bit more out of them'. So far as Ansett was concerned, second best for the Australian travelling public was good enough- not the best. 
-That is true The honourable member shows his ignorance by making that interjection. Ansett was completely and totally opposed to the purchase of these aircraft. If the honourable member remains seated for a moment, I will read to him a couple of paragraphs from a letter dated 26 September 1975 from  Mr Vial,  the then Acting  Chairman  of the Australian National Airlines Commission- in other words, TAA. I say to the honourable member for Mitchell: Just sit and listen to this for a moment and he will learn something. This is what  Mr Vial  had to say to the Minister of the day: 
The Commission's current Boeing fleet comprises six 727-76 aircraft and six 727-276 aircraft. The first two 727-76 aircraft were introduced into service over ten years ago in November 1964. 
There are only four 100 series aircraft in service today that have hours in excess of 35 000, and these are the two hightime TAA and Ansett aircraft. 
There are a total of 43 B727-100 aircraft operating with flying times in the bracket 30 000-35 000 hours, and four of these aircraft are also on the Australian register, i.e. 17 per cent of the 100 series having hours in excess of 30 000 are on the Australian register. 
The Commission's long-term fleet planning was based on having a minimum of eight B727-200 aircraft in the fleet on the introduction of wide-bodied jet aircraft, at which time 100 series disposal would commence and proceed according to capacity requirements. 
Having regard to our early 100 series having the highest hours in the world, it is desirable that their phasing out of service be commenced at an early date. 
I ask the honourable member to note that last paragraph which states:  it is desirable that their phasing out of service be commenced at an early date. 
I raised the question of the economics of these aircraft- whether there was a need to change them over. The technical officers of the Department of Transport assured me that it was a record of which no airline should be proud- to have the oldest and longest flying aircraft in its fleet. It was on that basis alone when that information came to hand that approval was granted immediately. That approval likewise was indicated to Ansett. If he wanted to buy the aircraft, notwithstanding the fact that he had already said to the Department of Transport that he believed there was still economic use in the existing aircraft that TAA was proposing to sell, he could do so. It only goes to prove my point that as far as Ansett is concerned second-best is good enough for the Australian travelling public while for TAA only the best is good enough. I suggest to the honourable member that he keeps those facts in mind. 
Let us now look at the operations of Qantas. I hope that Qantas is looking at a more rationalised approach to its world-wide operations. There is a need for it to do so. In the previous 3 years the Labor Government convinced a number of governments involved in bilateral agreements that there was a need for greater rationalisation. There was a cutback in services which in turn lifted the operating capacity of aircraft on a seat/kilometre or seat/ mileage rate, whatever term one uses. Honourable members should know that on the Pacific route today Pan Am and Qantas are operating- I know the correct figure but I am not prepared to divulge it- at about 45 per cent to 50 per cent capacity. On average over 12 months, even though the airlines at certain times are operating at 100 per cent capacity, the airlines are operating at roughly half their capacity. There is no need for that. Qantas would be much better advised to do what it did a few years ago when things got tough. It reduced fares and increased quite' considerably the number of people travelling. It gave people both overseas and in Australia the opportunity to travel at a fair and reasonable rate. That is what is needed now and I hope that when Qantas gets these 3 additional aircraft it is prepared to look at the rationalisation of air services and get the cooperation of other airlines so that people can travel much cheaper than they can at present. 
Although approval was granted for the airlines to buy the Boeing 727-200 series, they should have been moving into wide-bodied jets. Just as, as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  said, they were difficult to move on parallel scheduling it was likewise difficult to get agreement on the need to bring in wide-bodied jets. There were several reasons for this situation. One was the noise level around airports. The Boeing 727-200 series is a much quieter aircraft than the Boeing 727-100 and in his letter of 26 September on this subject  Mr Vial  had this to say: 
Improved ambient noise: The 200 series aircraft complies with the FAA FAR 36 noise requirements, whereas the 100 series does not. 
The Boeing 727-200 is probably the second quietest airplane available to the airlines. The airlines should have been moving into widebodied jets which are much quieter than the Boeing 727-200 and this would have reduced the number of aircraft using airports with a critical noise problem, such as Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and, to a lesser degree, Perth. 
-Because of the obstinacy of a fellow named  Sir Reginald  Ansett to whom one cannot talk sense under any circumstances. 
TAA would not be affected. It was moving into that position under pressure of the government of the day and, believe me, it was under pressure. Ansett would not wear it. There is a thing called the two airline agreement which an earlier Liberal-Country 
Party Government was responsible for foisting on this Parliament and on the people of Australia 
In the short time available to me I want to raise the question of offset payments. Nowhere in the Minister's second reading speech does he make any mention of offset payments. Honourable members opposite should not forget that we have Australian industries and workmen who have to be maintained and an aircraft industry in Australia comprising Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, the Government Aircraft Factory and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation which can produce aircraft parts economically. It has a learner's curve problem but is getting on top of it, particularly at the Hawker de Havilland aircraft factory in Sydney. Whilst the industry has been getting orders from the United States it has not been getting them in sufficient quantities. This Government has not been leaning on the people overseas. What should be said is what was said in 1973, that is, that we are not committed to the use of Boeing aircraft on our domestic operations like we are committed to the use of Boeing 747 aircraft on international operations and that unless Boeing comes to the party with offset payments we will not buy any of its aircraft for our domestic operations. We can buy the Lockheed 1011, the Douglas DC 10 or the European Air Bus. Any of these wide-bodied jets can replace the Boeing 727-200 series and pressure should be applied to Boeing. It is not being applied by this Government which is a weak-kneed, yellow-bellied pack not prepared to lean on or put pressure on overseas manufacturers. It would sooner kow-tow to them. 
How is the Government dealing with its own aircraft that is being manufactured here, the Nomad? The first approach was made 3 years ago and over 12 months ago in September 1975 the Federal Aviation Agency certification group came out here, looked over the aircraft and its manufacture and agreement was reached on the procedure for certification of the aircraft. Over 12 months later there is still not certification of the Nomad. It is a very simple aircraft. There is nothing sophisticated or revolutionary about it. But have we got it certified yet so that it can be sold in the United States? Of course we have not because the Government is not prepared to demand a fair go for Australian industry. 
I turn now to another matter. It is quite ironic that it too involves Qantas and Ansett Transport Industries. I refer to the provisional communique on the establishment of a national airline in 
Papua New Guinea and seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the whole of that agreement from the 1973 annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr Mackellar)  has approved of its incorporation. 

 The document read as follows- 

-This agreement is between the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government for the setting up of an airline called Air Niugini. The Papua 
New Guinea Government has 60 per cent participation while Ansett Transport Industries has 16 per cent, Qantas has 12 per cent and TAA has 12 per cent. What concerns me is the pressure that the Papua New Guinea Government is applying on this Government to allow it to buy out the TAA and Qantas participation. The Australian Government in this agreement made a very substantial contribution to civil aviation in Papua New Guinea at a cost of about $40m to the Australian taxpayer. When that agreement was entered into both parties said they were satisfied with it and signed it, yet we find that a very short time after the agreement was signed pressure is being put on this weak-kneed, yellow- bellied Government to agree to Qantas and TAA being pulled out of the agreement. I am concerned in all these negotiations at the way the private airlines operator in Australia is using his position to duchess, and I use the term 'duchess' in the way in which we know it to be used, certain leading people in Papua New Guinea. For example, a particular person was taken through South-East Asia some years ago to duchess him and get him on-side. Even as late as this yearbetween 1 and 6 November- the same person was here in Australia. He is a very important member of the Papua New Guinea Parliament but he was in Australia not on Government business. He was put up at the holiday home of the head of Ansett Transport Industries at a place called Mount Elisa. What for? For one obvious reason it seems to me. He was duchessed, to get favourable preferential treatment for Ansett Transport Industries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister recently spend a few days on Lizard Island: if so, how many days did he spend there, and who accompanied him. 
What direct and/or indirect interests in Lizard Island are held by  Mr Henry  Sydney Williams whom the Minister has appointed as a member of the Australian Tourist Commission. 
Has  Mr Williams  given the Government or the Commission a declaration of his financial interests. 
asked the Minister for 
Transport, upon notice: 
How many (a) first class and (b) economy class passengers travelled on the Sydney to Tokyo Qantas flight on each day between 7 June and 2 1 June 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many (a) first class and (b) economy class passengers travelled on the Hong Kong to Brisbane Qantas flight on each day between 25 June and 9 July 1 976. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I draw his attention to the accident investigation report prepared by the air safety investigation branch of the Department of Transport in respect of the crash of the DH114 Heron VH-CLS which occurred adjacent to Cairns airport on 23 October 1975. 1 ask the Minister whether it is his intention to hold a full, public judicial inquiry into the accident and the circumstances associated with it, having in mind the number of points brought out in the accident investigation report. The report drew attention to the possible inadequacy of training and experience of the pilot and his co-pilot, particularly in the weather conditions applying that night, and also to the fact that only one of the three air traffic controllers rostered for duty during that period when the aircraft was due to land was on duty. The comment was made at page 21 of the report that there was an obvious inadequate use of radar weather surveillance by the air traffic controllers. I believe that, in view of the fact that 1 1 people have lost their lives, some form of investigation is necessary. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Have public servants from departments other than his own accompanied him on his visits overseas. 
If so, who were they, and from which departments did they come. 
What was the cost of (a) fares, (b) allowances and (c) accommodation to each department for each visit. 
I wish to raise the question of the need for a full judicial public inquiry into the accident investigation report dealing with the crash of the Connair DH114 Heron aircraft, registered number VH-CLS, which crashed adjacent to the Cairns Airport in Queensland on 23 October 1975. On 6 December I directed a question to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and sought from him an assurance that a full judicial inquiry would be held. I received a very evasive answer from the Minister who said that the matter would be investigated, that it was being examined and that he would advise me. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that the report was prepared in August 1976. That is the date that appears on the report. From then until 6 December 1976, surely the Minister had sufficient time to receive advice as to whether a full public inquiry should be held into this incident. 
It occurred during my time as Minister for Transport, and at that time I indicated to the Department that when the inquiry by the air safety branch had been concluded there would be a full public inquiry into it, because the idea of just the Department holding an inquiry and finding out as best it can what was the cause of the accident, and then putting the report into a pigeon hole somewhere, is just not good enough. Some years ago there was a crash of an Ansett Airlines of Australia Viscount aircraft at Port Hedland in which a considerable number of people lost their lives. No inquiry was held. Numerous people wrote to me when I was the shadow Minister for Transport, complaining that no inquiry had been held and wanting to know the circumstances that brought about the deaths of their daughters and sons. Yet the Government of that day was not prepared to go on with it. When my turn came to make decisions on it I said that I believed that an inquiry should be held. 
A number of small matters in the report are worth drawing to the attention of honourable members. If they want to go ahead and read the report, they can do so. First and foremost, the pilot was a man with some 3000 hours experience. He had made 42 flights from Mount Isa to Cairns, 37 of them at night time. He had made  10 instrument landing system approaches, but not one ILS approach, as far as I could make out from the report, had been made in weather con.ditins similar to those prevailing on that particular night, when there was a bad thunderstorm, torrential rain in some parts, heavy rain in some parts and light rain in other parts. The pilot officer who was with him was not qualified to fly the aircraft in question. All that he was able to do was give radio communication assistance. Eight passengers and 3 crew lost their lives. Three air traffic controllers were rostered for the time that the aircraft was scheduled to land at Cairns. Yet two of them had been given permission to leave the control tower. Only one air traffic controller was left in charge of the airport. Page 2 1 of the report reads: 
Nevertheless, it is considered that greater use of meteorological surveillance radar facilities should have been made by the air traffic control system. 
There was a heavy storm. If honourable members look at the map displaying the flight path of the aircraft they will see that at no stage was the aeroplane ever on the correct line of approach and at no stage was it in line with the runway. 
-I do not know. That is why I want a full public inquiry. The honourable member for La Trobe should bear in mind that this report gives no indication whatever why at no stage was the aircraft on line with the instrument landing system. If the honourable member had a look at this map he would see that it is obvious that the pilot was trying to find the ILS to as to come in on the correct approach. In these circumstances there is a need for a full public inquiry. 
-The Bills before the House are the Navigation Amendment Bill 1976 and the Historic Shipwrecks Bill 1976. 1 congratulate the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  I did not think I would ever be in a position of agreeing with him. However, I am pleased to say that when we are considering matters of historical interest and environmental matters oft-times party barriers disappear substantially. I congratulate the honourable member for Holt on his contribution to the debate this evening. I join with him in his comments about the Victorian Government. I do not want to be political. All governments in Australia should have a greater awareness of the need to protect the history of this country and not allow relics to fall to pieces or be destroyed. I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Holt. 
I congratulate the Government for introducing a first-class Bill into the Parliament. The Bill is almost identical with the Bill that was introduced into this Parliament in October 1973 by the Labor Governmentr. Once again, the Government has adopted Labor legislation- first-class legislation- which is in the interests of people involved in the maritime industry. I am disappointed, of course, that many important parts of the 1975 legislation are not included in this Bill. I will deal with those matters later. I turn now to the important sections of the 1975 legislation which have been included in the Bill. A considerable number of amendments are proposed to the 
Navigation Act. I always find navigation legislation interesting and intriguing to deal with. Unfortunately, amendments to the Navigation Act are not brought before the Parliament often enough. It is outdated legislation sadly in need of updating. It was the objective of the Labor Party in 1975 to update the legislation when it introduced amendments and new initiatives, some of which are now contained in this Bill. 
The main provision contained in this Bill concerns the limit of liability of owners of seagoing ships for loss of life or property. We adopted the provisions of the International Convention relating to the Limitation of Liability on Owners of Sea-going Ships signed at Brussels on 10 October 1957 and they became law in 1968. Part II of the Act deals with the crews of ships and their conditions of service. This will no longer apply to visiting ships, the conditions of whose operations in Australia were governed by the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act. Visiting ships no longer will be governed by the Australian legislation because of improvements which the British Government has provided. Our law will apply only to ships under charter in Australia 
New Division 14, which is to be added to Part IV of the principal Act, makes it mandatory for a ship's master to submit plans of a ship's voyage in Australian waters and to report its movements. I will deal with that in detail. It is a provision of which I am very proud. Part VII of the Navigation Act deals with historical wrecks and wrecks as a whole. The definition of 'historic wreck' is to be included in the Navigation Act.  This is necessary because of provisions in the Historic Shipwrecks Bill. Proposed new Part VA deals with special purpose ships and special personnel. That is a broad outline of what the Navigation Amendment Bill is about. 
So far as the limitation of liability is concerned, Part VIII of the Navigation Act limited the liability of ship owners for loss or damage in accordance with the provisions of the Imperial Act known as the Merchant Shipping Act of 1894. This Part subsititutes a new Part VIII which gives the International Convention relating to the Limitation of Liability on Owners of Sea-going Ships the force of law in Australia except that the liability relating to salvage operations or damage to marine facilities and waterways cannot be limited. The effect is to increase substantially the liability of ship owners. The figures referred to by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech have been updated since 1975. They have increased, for liability for personal claims, from $20 per ton to $189 a ton and, in the case of property claims, from about $1 1 a ton to $61 a ton. With the recent revaluation, these figures are not out of date. They will continue to fluctuate. 
The International Convention, to which I referred, is included in the Bill as Schedule 1 and approval is given for its ratification. Proposed new section 59b states that an owner cannot limit his liability in respect of loss or life or personal injuries sustained by crew and other people who have duties on the ship. One aspect of this provision which concerns me is that the Convention was signed in Brussels in 1957 and it became law in 1968 yet this Government, when in office between 1968 and December 1972, did absolutely nothing about implementing or bringing into operation the terms and conditions of the 1957 Brussels Convention. When I introduced similar legislation 12 months ago all that the present Minister for Transport did was to severely castigate the Labor Government for what it had done. He was most critical of our actions in bringing forward amendments. However, I am pleased to say that in the 12 months in which he has been the Minister he has seen the light of day and has had enough sense to pick up what we initiated and what we suggested at that time. 
-Charlie Nixon as he is called. If we do not tell the Minister what to do, he does not do anything. If he does not have our legislation to refer to he does not do anything. The new Convention signed recently increases the figures to which I referred earlier by about 400 per cent. I hope that the Government will not wait another 12 months- it will certainly not have 23 years or as long as it took to adopt the recommendations of the 1957 Conventionbefore it adopts the new Convention. The Government should get on with the job and get away from the present archaic system of limited owner liability. It applies to aeroplanes; it applies to the maritime industry. It is something that belongs to the bad old days. It is time that governments got rid of it. My one disappointment is that when I was the Minister I was not able to get rid of it because its retention could have harmed our own shipping industry. The sooner the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation gets rid of this limited liability, the better. At least governments can then get on with the job of implementing decisions made by IMCO and at international conventions. 
-We did. The honourable member for La Trobe will be voting on our legislation tonight. I hope that his Party does not delay this legislation in the Senate. This legislation is similar to the legislation introduced in October 1975 by the Labor Government- it is almost word for word. I hope the honourable member has enough sense to vote for it.  His  Minister has had enough sense to introduce this legislation and to get on with a job which is sadly overdue. I hope this Bill will not be delayed any further. I will give an example of how little people can be hurt by delaying legislation of this type. I think we are indebted to Jimmy Ramsden of the  Australian Financial Review  for an article which he wrote and which appeared yesterday, 8 December. Honourable members can read it. He gave me a bit of a dig and he gave the Minister for Transport an even bigger dig. In that article he drew attention to a crewman of a fishing boat who severely injured his hand and lost a number of fingers. That man received as compensation a paltry sum because he did not belong to a union that had the muscle to be able to get mm what he was entitled to. This is a clear case which shows how little people can be deprived because parliaments are too dilatory and are not prepared to act. It is obvious from the attack on me 12 months ago by the present Minister that if we had not embarrassed him into the position of having to reject that section of the Act, the possibility is that he would not have gone on with it. So we have these cases where little people can be hurt. 
In the case of the new amendment, proposed new section 59B which will be written into the Act, trade unions are able to get over the problem of limitation by reason of their industrial strength. We have had numerous cases where seaman have received just compensation. In the case of the  Birchgrove Park  they would have received virtually peanuts under the provisions of the old Merchant Shipping Act if the limitation of liability had applied. In the case of the Blythe Star fatality in Tasmania a few years ago, those women received their just entitlements under the then compensation Act, but under limited liability provisions they would have been deprived of many of the benefits. Where the unions have strength they can get away with it; but where they have not, such as in the case I quoted or in the case of the fisherman, there is nobody to fight for them. That fisherman lost out and finished up with a very paltry amount of compensation. So much for the matter of limited liability. 
The next matter I want to deal with is the reporting of shipping movements. The Labor Party is entitled to be proud because of this amendment being written into the Act. I am pleased that the Minister left this amendment in the Bill. Australia will be the first country which will have compulsory filing of sailing plans and position reporting every 24 hours for Australian ships or other ships on the Australian coast. The maritime industry throughout the world is very keenly interested in what is going on. Some of the moneybags are concerned about it because it might cost them some money, but if this section had been in the Maritime Act and had been in operation when the  Blythe Star  fatality occurred, in my opinion those men who lost their lives would still be with us today. The Transport Commission did not know whether that ship was going up the west coast of Tasmania or whether it was going up the east coast of Tasmania. It did not have a clue about whether the ship sunk on the Friday night, the Saturday or the Sunday. It did not have a clue because the captain was not required to report his position or to lodge a sail plan. Every pilot who takes off in an aeroplane, whether it is a single-engine aeroplane, a 4-engined jumbo or a Concorde has to lodge a flight plan so that controllers know where the aircraft is. The same principle will apply to shipping. 
From discussions I had with people overseas I know that the American Coast Guard is very interested in this idea. It has a voluntary system working but it is most interested in seeing what happens with this idea. My hope is that very shortly this legislation will be extended further to cover fishing vessels and pleasure craft. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  drew attention to the number of fatalities that occur with pleasure craft along the coast of this country. We have a beautiful coastline but it is also one of the most dangerous coastlines. The weather can change so very quickly and people out at sea can be in trouble unless somebody on shore knows where they are or where they should be. I cannot understand why any owner of a boat going to sea, whether it be a 14-footer, an 18-footer or bigger boats up to 30 feet or 40 feet, is not prepared to lodge a sail plan and to report his position regularly. I will never know why that is so. It is in his own interest and for the welfare of the people with him that he do so. The same can be said for fishing vessels. 
I was going to deal with historic wrecks but I am watching the clock on the wall. I know that my friend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  will be speaking on this subject so I will pass it by. The next matter I want to deal with is visiting British ships. The British Government has updated the Merchant Shipping Act and we have kept pace with it. Therefore we have excluded British ships from the Australian Navigation Act, except when they are on charter here. 
The other points I want to mention relate to items omitted from the Bill. They concern me greatly. The first I want to deal with is the deletion of amendments relating to vessels and other structures engaged in offshore industry and activities associated with it, such as exploring or exploiting the natural resources of the continental shelf of Australia or the seabed off the Australian coast I am referring to those fixed structures and mobile units used in industry of this kind. There are going to be more and more of these units at sea. I tried to obtain agreement with the States about the operations of oil drilling rigs which have been engaged off the Australian coast for about 15 years. The former Department of Shipping and Transport tried for 15 years to get agreement with the State governments on laws to apply to offshore shipping. When I was Minister my Department tried to get agreement with them and I made a similar attempt at a meeting of the Marine and Ports Council. It was just not on. Following the Press statement dated 26 November and recently released by the Minister, in relation to navigation laws, I hope that he can get some agreement with the States. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a page out of the 1975 Navigation Bill which sets out proposed amendments relating to offshore shipping arrangements. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Governor-General and his wife recently spend a few days on Lizard Island; if so, how many. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  National Times  of 20-25 September 1976 that they were accompanied by the Governor-General's naval aide, their butler, two Commonwealth policemen, the head of Queensland's police special branch and a Queensland constable; if so, were they accompanied by any of these persons. 
) What mode of transport did they use. 
Has it been the Governor-General's practice to issue for public information his engagements of the previous day  (Hansard,  27 April 1976, page 1654). 
If so, why did His Excellency not issue information on his visit to Lizard Island. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officials were stationed in Peking at the time of 
the former Prime Minister's visit in November 1973 and 
the Prime Minister's visit in June 1975  (Hansard,  7 December 1976, page 3457 and Senate  Hansard, 6  December 1976, page 2680). 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has he been advised that the floating dock at the Newcastle State Dockyards has been declared unsafe and is no longer available for dockings? Is he aware of the serious effect this will have on the future employment of about 200 men who are permanently employed on the dock? Is it correct that 5 firm dockings which would have involved work valued at about $500,000 and which would have provided employment for about 200 men have been cancelled and that further cancellations will now have to follow? Has the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  made repeated representations to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance to assist the New South Wales Government to replace the now unsafe dock? If representations have been made, can the Prime Minister give me some indication of his Government's response? Finally, has the Commonwealth Government been considering making a special grant, similar to the Fraser Island grant, for the Newcastle district to help provide employment for the unemployed dockyard workers following the Commonwealth Government's decision to place orders in Japan for the building of four 15 000 tonne bulk ships for the Australian National Line? Can the Prime Minister tell the House what is the present position in this matter, bearing in mind that the level of unemployment in the Newcastle district is the highest of any centre in Australia? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Does he recall the Parliamentary Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties which was set up by the Labor Government in 1974 and which prepared a report titled 'Learning Difficulties in Children and Adults'. This report was tabled in the Parliament on 14 October last year and debated on 9 December. What progress has been made to implement the recommendations of the Select Committee? 
-I thank the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for being in attendance in the House. The matter I wish to raise is the accident investigation report into the Heron aircraft DH114 2E/A1 which crashed near Cairns airport in Queensland on 23 October 1975. 1 have brought this matter to the attention of the House on two previous occasions. First of all I asked the Minister for Transport, on 6 December 1976, to make the facts known to the House and to order a full public judicial inquiry into the accident. I raised the matter again on the adjournment on 8 December 1976. I drew the attention of honourable members to a number of points in the report, namely that 1 1 people had lost their lives, that there were in my opinion decided limitations in the experience of the pilot of the aircraft and that the report stated that 3 air traffic controllers were rostered on duty at the time of the accident. Two of them had been given relief and were not on duty even though the report said that if additional meteorological assistance had been given it would have been helpful at that time. Those facts are brought out in the report. 
I have brought all these matters to the attention of honourable members. It is obvious from the report that the pilot was lost. The flight paths outlined in the report clearly show that to be so. Backbench supporters of the Government who hold pilots' licences and who have an interest in aviation spoke to me after I had raised the matter in the House. They all expressed some surprise at the contents of the report. I hope that they went away and read it. I emphasise that I am not casting any aspersions on the Minister for Transport; he was not the Minister at the time. I was Minister when the accident occurred. I believe that when accidents of this type occur, when 1 1 people lose their lives in a fatal accident where there were obvious shortcomings in what happened at that particular time- the pilot had never landed the aircraft in bad weather though he had certainly made landings under an instrument landing system in all clear weatherthe matter should be investigated. 
The accident happened in extremely stormy conditions. During one part of the flight path there was torrential rain, on another part there was heavy rain and on another part there was only light rain. If honourable members were to examine the plan that the investigation branch put together they would see that it was obvious that the pilot was lost. The question is: Why was he lost? Why did a pilot, who had made 40 flights into Cairns airport at night and who had never made a landing under adverse weather conditions, become lost? All of these things should be more closely reported upon and examined. They should be made public so that the relatives have the opportunity of being legally represented at a full judicial inquiry. At least they will then go away satisfied that the circumstances under which their relatives- their husband or their wife as the case may be- had lost their lives have been investigated fully. This is all I am asking for. I am making no charges against anyone on this particular matter. It is a clear case where an inquiry should have been held. I was disappointed to receive correspondence from the Minister on 14 January about this matter. Although I have not consulted the Minister, to save me reading the letter, I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Minister for Transport Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 14January 1977 
Dear  Mr Jones, 
In response to your Question Without Notice on 6 December 1976 in respect of the accident to  DH  1 14 Heron aircraft  VH-CLS  at Cairns on 23 October 1975, I indicated that the matter of whether or not a public inquiry will be held was under consideration. 
I have now completed my examination of all matters associated with the accident, including a review of those aspects raised by you in the House on 6 December and 8 December 1976, and I believe that the public interest would not be served by the undertaking of a Board of Accident Inquiry for the further investigation of the accident. 
Yours sincerely, P.J.NIXON 
-I thank the Minister. In this letter the Minister has stated very clearly that he believes that the public interest would not be served by the undertaking of a Board of Accident Inquiry for the further investigation of the accident. I know that the Minister has 10 minutes in which to reply to this matter. He will not be taking up the time of other honourable members in this adjournment debate. He can speak for 10 minutes from 1 1 p.m. to 11.10 p.m. I should like to hear what he has to say to substantiate that claim. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Following the announcement of a proposed wage-price freeze and statements by the Prime Minister and some of his Ministers that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be used as a mechanism to supervise price rises, I ask whether it is the Government's intention to amend further the Prices Justification Act to cater for this new policy. If so, when? What additional staff will be made available to the Tribunal to monitor price rises? 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Transport by drawing attention to the fact that in early 1975 the then Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  drew my attention to the fact that Australia was very rapidly running out of oil reserves, that the import cost of replacements was very great, and that there was a need to electrify Australian railways. Arising out of that meeting, a decision was taken by the Government- 
-The Australian National Railways Amendment Bill before the House proposes a series of amendments to the Australian National Railways Act which take up the agreements that have been entered into at this point between the Australian National Railways Commission and the various trade unions with members employed by the Commission, together with a couple of other minor adjustments to the Act that probably should have been made with the 1975 amendments. The Opposition supports the Bill. We shall support the amendment that the Minister will be bringing forward at the Committee stage. That has been brought forward at our instigation, once again to fill up a loophole which, after all, the best draftsmen sometimes overlook. 
Before dealing with the BUI at greater length I wish to refer to some of the amendments now proposed. One deals with contracts. In the 1975 agreements the Commissioner of Railways was required to get the Minister's approval for contracts entered into, for both the carriage of goods and the purchase of goods or equipment. We do not oppose the amendment but I think the provision should be watched, particularly that section dealing with the Commission entering into contracts for the carriage of goods. I do not agree that the provision was omitted by an oversight. As far as I am concerned it was left in the legislation deliberately so that the Minister could have the right of overseeing, if need be, large contracts for the carriage of goods. We will not oppose the deletion of this provision but the result Will be watched with interest to see its effect. 
We support the agreements that have been reached on superannuation, retirement, appeals and all these matters. I am disappointed that at present there are still 24 unions in the Australian National Railways system. I make an appeal to the trade unions to endeavour to reduce that number, to bring about amalgamations within the industry, because I believe it is to their advantage and to the advantage of the transport industry, the Australian National Railways and the railway system as a whole. There are far too many trade unions in Australia today. It took the various unions associated with what is now the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union years of agitation within those unions to bring about amalgamation. I can recall as a young man joining the Boilermakers Union before the War. Even in those days there was talk about amalgamation. It never seemed to get any closer and then all of a sudden it clicked and the amalgamation of a number of unions has taken effect. I think this is a great advantage to industry and to the unions. Every honourable member on the Government side who has spoken in this debate has made reference to the fourth paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He said: 
But that does not mean we were happy with the arrangements made. In fact I have made it very clear that in my opinion the Whitlam Government was taken to the cleaners, whilst the 2 State Premiers laughed all the way to the bank. 
We entered into an agreement with our eyes wide open. We knew what we were doing. As far as we were concerned, the agreement was one which was mutually entered into. There was no arm twisting. There were no standover tactics. It was an agreement what was mutually entered into between the then Prime Minister and other Federal Ministers and the State Premiers and their Ministers. I ask the supporters of the Government: What are the South Austraiian and Tasmanian governments? I thought they were part of Australia. I thought that the money that was paid to those State governments helped and assisted the people of those States. From time to time, I have read in the Budget Papers of sums of something like $360m going overseas to aid people there. So, why is the Government bitching about paying a little bit of money to Australian States to help them to get over their financial problems at that time- and they did have financial problems at that time? The offer of the Labor Government was not made only to South Australia and Tasmania; it was made to all of the States. As far as handouts are concerned, is the Minister for Transport losing any sleep at night over the superphosphate bounty that he collects? Is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  handing back the $5,000 a year that it is worth to him? 
-Or more. What about the Bill that was dealt with this week which provided for a handout of $360m on the reassessment of company stocks and the $ 1,000m that the Government has handed out by way of industrial development grants? That is all paid out to private individuals and companies. 
-The honourable member was the chief agent of the Central Intelligence Agency in Western Australia; so he should not start to interject. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  dealt with him last night. The position is that the money to which I have just made reference is being paid out to private individuals and companies. All of this money went to the people of South Australia and Tasmania. Why does the Minister not tell the truth when he talks about going on with the agreement? The Fraser Government tried to undo the agreement but the agreement was well and truly sewn up by the Labor Government. The Fraser Government has not been able to undo one of the many things that we put through in relation to transport. It has not been able to upset one of them in the High Court. Everything that we did was done legally and constitutionally. 
A limited amount of time is left to me and I do not want to be side-tracked about payments by the CIA to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  The facts of the matter are that transport is one of the major industries in this country. It represents 10 per cent of the gross national product. The expenditure on transport in 1975-76 was something like $4,500m. Transport provides employment for something like 35 000 people or 6 per cent of the total work force. So when we are talking about transport we are talking about one of the most important industries in this country. It is an industry that has a major effect upon the cost structure of other industries throughout Australia. Time and time again industries complain that they are not competitive with imports because of the freight charges within Australia. We have to do something about that. The same can be said as far as export freight rates are concerned. The Australian Shippers Council is continually complaining about freight rates. So transport does have a major effect upon the production and cost structure of this country. 
When the Labor Government came to office it was faced with the task in the transport field of trying to reduce freight rates right across the board throughout Australia and to have each industry accept its true responsibility. We have seen in the transport field one of the most unreasonable misallocations of resources that it would be possible to have in any one country. In the period between the end of the 1939-45 War until we became the Government, the Parliament made available for roads some $3,007m. On the other hand it made available for railways only $248m. In the main, that went into rail standardisation. Let us have a look at the effect of rail standardisation in the one short section connecting Sydney and Melbourne. I give great credit to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for the work he did over the years in relation to rail standardisation together with the late member for East Sydney, Eddie Ward. They were great advocates of rail standardisation in this country. In the year prior to standardisation on the Sydney-Melbourne run the total freight carried was 1.27 million tons. In 1965 it had climbed to 1.92 million tons. By 1970-71 it had grown to 2.64 million tons. The $248m for rail standardisation was spent well, not only on the Sydney-Melbourne Une but on other similar rail projects right throughout Australia. There has been a great advantage to the Australian people in more efficient transport as a result of people getting on with the job. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  talked about the problems in Queensland. The marshalling yards of Brisbane are an utter disgrace to the Queensland Government. For a long period that Government has refused to do anything about them. It has refused to accept any of the reasonable offers made by the Australian Government. The Labor Government made a number of offers to the Queensland Government to take over and build a new marshalling yard so that wagons would not lie idle in the yards in Brisbane. With regard to traffic from Melbourne, on a number of occasions single voyage permits had to be issued for the carriage of Australian freight in foreign ships because the Victorian railways would not make rolling stock available to go to Brisbane as it lay up there for unreasonable times due to the inefficiencies of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  Government and the harm he does to this country, in particular to its railways. 
-It is a banana republic, as the honourable member says. The Labor Government was faced with the responsibility of what was happening at that time to railways in Australia. In 1971 there was a capital investment in railways throughout Australia of approximately $2, 100m. The annual turnover was $584m. In the 5-year period to 1971-72 the railways collectively lost in the vicinity of $340m. Grants, concessions and the like cost State governments another $3 10m, so that in that 5-year period the railways of Australia were losing approximately $650m. At present Australian railways are losing that amount almost annually because of their state and the need to build them up. We were faced with that responsibility. The Labor Government pledged to do something about transport, to reduce freight rates and to make rail traffic more attractive to industry so that it could get on with the job. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  made an offer in his 1972 policy speech to take over all the State railway systems. The true picture is that  Sir Henry  Bolte had made an offer to John Gorton when he was the Prime Minister.  Sir Henry  said: 'You can have our railways.' Not to be outdone,  Sir Robert  Asian said: 'You can have the New South Wales railways as well.' When the Whitlam Labor Government put the proposition to them  Sir Henry  Bolte would not be in it but the New South Wales Government agreed to enter into discussions. Those discussions went on right up to early 1975, when the prize idiot of New South Wales, Tom Lewis, was elected Premier of that State. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do what the Liberal Party as a whole did to him later. It kicked him out; it stabbed him in the back during the night. 
The New South Wales Minister for Transport at that time agreed in private discussions with me that the New South Wales railways should be transferred to the Australian Government. I asked him: 'Before we sit down to enter into discussions, are we wasting our time?' The answer was: 'No, you are not wasting your time'. He said: 'I am confident that  Sir Robert  Askin will agree to the transfer'. The same applied in Western Australia until  Sir Charles  Court was elected Premier. The Western Australian raU system would have been transferred to the Australian national raU system. The former Labor Government in Western Australia was prepared to go along with a transfer of State railways as was the South Australian Government in the middle of the continent, and one of the eastern States, New South Wales, under a Liberal Government, likewise would have gone on with the proposition because it could see the advantages of having one Australian system of railways like that in Europe. The best railway system in the world is in Europe. All the European Economic Community works together with Switzerland and Austria. The railways of these countries are part of what is virtually an integrated rail system. In Canada there are 2 raU systems. One system is run by the Canadian Federal Government, not by a series of provincial governments, and the other is run by a private company. These countries realise the advantages of having one rail system instead of a federal system and six State systems. 
The decision of the Whitlam Government to take over State railways was one of the most progressive decisions ever made on raU transport in this country this century. If the Minister for Transport wants to improve transport he needs to do more than he is at the moment. He is only carrying on the initiatives that the Labor Government started. He has not introduced one transport initiative in the 18 months he has been Minister. He has only carried on the programs which the Labor government left him. He has even demolished a few Labor initiatives such as the Road Safety and Standards Authority. He did that at a time when $ 1,000m a year is lost to the country because people are killed and maimed in road accidents. He demolished this 
Authority that was set up following a recommendation made to the Labor Government by a committee set up by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government, namely, the Expert Group on Road Safety. This committee recommended an authority which the Minister has since abolished because it was set up by the Labor Government. The  Chairman  of the Authority said to me on one occasion: 'The Liberals could have done it and did not. You could have done it and you did'. That is the difference between the Labor Party in government and the Liberal Party. The Liberal Government wants to demolish everything. It does not want to enter into its responsibilities and get on with the job of providing a better rail system. 
Throughout Australia today there are various government systems and various railway gauges. The gauge in Queensland is 3 feet 6 inches, while it is 5 feet 3 inches in Victoria and part of South Australia. We have the crazy situation of rail exchanges and all the rest of it. The Minister should get on with the job instead of getting  Dr Joy  to bring out a report on the standardisation of the line between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. The Minister is doing his damnedest to pull standardisation apart and to stop those responsible from getting on with the job. When he was a member of the Government previously he could not get an arrangement with the South Australian Government to build the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway or to bring about the standardisation of the link line between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. We in the Labor Government were able to achieve that in a few months because we adopted a reasonable attitude and the South Australian Government did likewise. In the 18 months that the Minister has been in office he has only slowed down work on the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line to the detriment of people in Central Australia, in Alice Springs, and Darwin. Much the same can be said about the Adelaide to Crystal Brook line. That job could have been well and truly under way by now if it had not been for the bungling of the Minister. 
We support the legislation because it continues to ratify the things which we did in government. It will bring about a better rail system in Australia and a more economical form of transport. The industry will be in a position to provide a more efficient and a much cheaper system of transport. This will help industry in Australia. It will help the people of this country get a better standard of living because that is what cheaper freight can do. It is a most important industry, employing many people and absorbing a great deal of capital in any one year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I raised during an adjournment debate in this place some time ago the matter of the accident that occurred adjacent to the Cairns Airport on 23 October 1975 when a Heron aircraft DH1 14 2E/A1 crashed on approach to that airport. I called on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  at that time to hold a full board of inquiry into the circumstances associated with the accident. I do not propose to repeat what I have said on 3 previous occasions in this place about the circumstances associated with the accident. I raised the matter again just recently and the Minister asked me to confer with him on the circumstances associated with the accident. I did that. After conferring briefly he suggested that I should meet some of the officers of his Department, including the First Assistant Secretary of the Accident Investigation Branch. I had that meeting with those people today. It lasted for almost 2 hours, being interrupted at one stage by the calling of a division in this place. Having discussed the matter with them in detail, I regret to say that I cannot accept the Minister's decision that a full board of inquiry should not be held. 
A coroner's inquest was conducted into the accident. Let me indicate to the House the interest taken by the relatives of the 3 crew members and 8 passengers who lost their lives. All the relatives of the people who lost their lives, with the exception of one, attended the inquest which extended over a period of 4 to 5 days. A great amount of evidence was taken and a great amount of argument was advanced. Clearly the relatives of the people who lost their lives were concerned about the circumstances of the accident in which so many people were killed. The Minister's assertion that there is no real concern is not borne out by these facts which are available to him in his Department. 
Officers of the Minister's Department tried to explain to me why it was not necessary to hold an inquiry. There is obviously a blank spot in respect of what happened at the time of the accident. A minute before the accident the aircraft should have been flying at about 640 feet. Evidence was given by eye-witnesses, two of whom have a particularly keen interest in aviation. One is a lady who sits on her verandah and watches through a pair of binoculars aircraft approach. 
-In Cairns. Another chap listens to conservations between pilots and the tower on his VHF set. These are the type of people who gave evidence. 
-I would not say they are sticky-beaks. They are people who are interested in aviation. They were first-class witnesses who were able to give opinions to the investigators. They stood by their points of view. It is clear to me that in that last minute the pilot just did not know where he was. He was not operating in conformity with the regulations under which he had been taught to operate. Having that in mind and having in mind the evidence that was given by people who attended the coroner's inquiry, I once again appeal to the Minister to have this matter resolved by a full board of inquiry so as to ensure that not only is justice done but also that it is seen to be done. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Were the Governor-General and his wife accompanied on their visit to Lizard Island by his naval aide, their butler, 2 Commonwealth policemen, the head of the Queensland 's police special branch and a Queensland constable, or by any of them. 
What type of RAAF aircraft conveyed them to and from Lizard Island, and from and to which airports did it convey them. 
-by leave- I join with the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  in expressing my thanks and appreciation to the staff of the Standing Committee on Road Safety for their support. I likewise join with him in expressing my appreciation to the witnesses, some of whom came from overseas, for bringing to the Committee their experience and informing the Committee of their objectives in endeavouring to improve the safety of heavy vehicles. This is an area in which there is a great and urgent need to do something. Once again we have an all-party committee bringing down unanimous recommendations. The recommendations in this report were unanimous. Some members of the Committee, because of other committee commitments, were unable to be present when the recommendations were being formulated but their views which had been conveyed by them to the Committee were taken into consideration when preparing the final draft of the report. 
Among the recommendations was one relating to heavy vehicle braking. It astounded me to find out that although there was a considerable amount of knowledge flowing to the manufacturing industry from the aircraft industry which, as honourable members would realise, has the latest technology in braking systems, this knowledge is not passed on to the road vehicle industry. Heavy braking is an area on which a great deal more study can and should be done by the industry itself so as to improve the vehicle that is on the road. Other areas in which there is need for improvement are in relation to steering and handling, tyre standards and the use of retreads, the strength of cabin and bus frames, loading practices, and modifications. Once someone buys a vehicle very little regard is had for the subsequent condition of that vehicle and for the way in which the owner can either add to it, subtract from it, add wheels and do all sorts of things when in so many cases he does not have a clue what the overall result of the modifications that he has carried out will be. This criticism applies particularly to one-man businesses and to one truck or two truck operators. They are more concerned with the economics of their industry, and with how they can cut costs and remain more competitive than the other fellow and do not have sufficient regard for the safety of the vehicle they are driving or for their own well-being following modifications which they have made to the vehicle with so very little technical advice and assistance. 
Other areas of concern are component failures and vehicle inspection. Not nearly enough heavy vehicle inspection is carried out. Before we as drivers of passenger vehicles can re-register our vehicles, they have to be submitted for close examination by registered inspectors. There is a great need for much more of this type of inspection of heavy vehicles, not so much on an annual basis as on a quarterly basis, as these vehicles are so heavily used and knocked around. Another recommendation related to rear end accidents and the fitting of under-run barriers of which the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  is a great advocate. So there is any amount of work to be done to improve the safety of heavy vehicles. 
One of the things which concerns me is the failure of governments to implement the recommendations of parliamentary committees. We had a committee comprising an expert group bring down its report entitled  Road Accident Situation in Australia  in September 1972. The former Labor Government accepted the recommendations of that Committee. It was not a Committee appointed by the Labor Government. It was one of the previous Government's committees which had been appointed, I think, by the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  As I have said, all the Committee's recommendations were adopted and put into effect to the extent of setting up the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Unfortunately, it was disbanded in February 1976. There is no reduction in the number of accidents occurring or the number of people being killed on the roads today. Statistics show that in 1973, 3679 people were killed on the roads. In 1974, 3572 people were killed on the roads. In 1975, 3694 people were killed on the roads. In 1976, 3584 people were killed on the roads. In 1975, 89 499 people were injured in motor vehicle accidents. There is a need to take greater note of the recommendations of these non-political committees. 
I emphasise, as I did earlier, that the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Road Safety are unanimous. They are not the recommendations of the National Country Party, the Liberal Party or the Labor Party. The Committee members were in complete agreement on the recommendations. For this reason alone I believe that there is a need for the Government to pay greater heed to the decisions that have been taken. For example, the  Chairman  of the Committee in his closing remarks referred to the need for a collection of accident data. That was a recommendation in a report on the road accident situation. It would have been brought about by the Road Safety and Standards Authority which would have been functioning well and truly by this date. 
To save a lousy $ 10m when there is no reduction in the accident rate and the cost of road accidents is about $ 1000m a year was, in my opinion, a paltry action and not in the interests of the people of this country. If the Road Safety and Standards Authority could have saved one life it would have achieved something. I believe it would have done much more than that. The decision to establish the Authority was not a political one. It was a decision arrived at by a Committee set up by this Government in 1971-72. Once again, I hope that the Minister for Transport will take note of the recommendations of this report which were made on a non-political basis and move hastily to bring about their implementation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Between what dates will His Excellency the GovernorGeneral be absent from Australia. 
What are the dates and nature of His Excellency's official engagements in London. 
Is His Excellency stopping over in Tehran, Nice and Paris on his way to London and in Rome and Bangkok on his way back; if so, is he staying there at public expense. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that two travel agents- AUS Student Travel and the Four Seasons organisation- announced last week that they were in financial difficulties? Is he also aware of the Travel Agents Bill 1975 that was introduced in this House in March 1975 by the then Minister for Tourism and Recreation, the Honourable Frank Stewart, and passed by this House and then introduced in the Senate and on the Notice Paper of that House when the events of 11 November 1975 caught up with the Parliament? If this Bill had been proceeded with by this Government, would it not have protected all the people who may lose money or be inconvenienced by the collapse of these agencies or of others that it is suggested may collapse in the very near future? What does the Government propose to do to compensate or to assist those people who may lose their money? When can we expect legislation to protect travellers who in good faith pay money in advance for travel? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
How many school leavers have been placed in permanent employment by the Commonwealth Employment Offices at (a) Newcastle, (b) Charlestown, (c) Maitland and (d) Cessnock since 30 November 1976. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks. I am concerned about the proposed increase in the tax on the liquefied gas used for propelling road vehicles. I admit that it is only a very small increase. It is unfortunate that in the world today there is a very severe and serious pollution problem. Man has had to attach to his motor vehicle new gadgets which cost a lot of money to buy and are expensive to install. A lot of money has been spent on experimentation on these gadgets. The cost of that experimentation and the cost of the manufacture of these gadgets is now being passed on to the motorist. These gadgets are necessary to overcome the serious pollution problems that exist in the central business districts of our cities. We know that in certain parts of Sydney, for example, a carbon monoxide level of about five times that which the World Health Organisation regards as a safe level can be found. Yet here we find the Government is continuing to levy a tax on this fuel, which is one of the few fuels that are almost completely and totally free of pollution. Instead of increasing the tax levied the Government should have been looking at how it could be eliminated completely. 
I have noted that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and other members of the Ministry have been stating recently that we should be looking towards conserving our petrol by removing the gadgets that have been attached to cars to break down the level of pollution. What we should be doing is providing money to enable further experimentation to be carried out into the uses of liquefied gas and into the use of alternative means of propelling a motor vehicle. Maybe some form of electric car, steam driven car or some other mode of transport can be experimented with, developed and devised by the scientists in the motor vehicle industry today. A lot of garbage has been dished out by the Government in the Budget about how the price of fuel has had to be increased by a little over 1 lc a gallon, and how it will go on increasing year by year by an ever-increasing amount, to protect our fossil fuels. What we should be doing is engaging in greater experimentation in the use of this form of fuel and the others to which I have referred. In this way we would protect the very rapidly diminishing source of fuel and at the same time overcome the problem of pollution in the cities. 
If I were a country voter I would be greatly concerned about the fact that I have to buy a motor vehicle that has these gadgets attached to it to overcome the problems of the cities. But how would it be possible to build two types of motor vehicle, one with an engine that has the attachments and one with an engine without the attachments and say that car A can be driven only in certain areas and car B can be driven anywhere. That would mean that the buyer of a motor car in a country area would not be able to drive to, say, Sydney; if he were coming south to Sydney from the northern section of New South Wales he would not be able to come into the area south of the Hawkesbury River or east of the Blue Mountains or north of Port Hacking. To become involved in such a scheme would be too complicated. The fact of the matter, as I have just said, is that we should not have had to get ourselves into the present situation. Much more work should have been done on the provision of an alternative means of public transport or the use of other means of propelling a motor car. It really disappoints me to see this happening. 
It is difficult to follow the Government's reasoning in relation to the increase in the price of fossil fuel. We have before us a Budget that allegedly has been put together to curtail inflation or to cut back on the rate of inflation. Hell has been belted out of the people of this country by this Government over the last 20 months with its phoney policy of curtailing inflation and its creation of the largest pool of unemployment to which this country has ever been subjected. Show me one industry that will not be affected by this Government's decision to increase the price of crude oil to the consumer. No matter what industry one likes to refer to one will find that transport is involved in it. The transport industry will be expected carry this additional burden. I have noted in the Press that the airlines are saying that the increase in the price of crude oil will bring about an increase in the price of air travel. I have also noted that the Government is not doing anything about air navigation charges. That is unfortunate because that is an area at which it should be having a real look. There is an under-payment by the industry. The Government is to increase the lighthouse dues charged to the maritime industry but not to increase the charges to the airlines.  Sir Reginald  Ansett certainly wields a great influence in the Cabinet of this country. I come back to the point that, as far as inflation is concerned, the tragedy is that the Government is not sincere in what it is doing and in the policies it is pursuing. The increased cost to the transport industry must be passed right through the economy. It does not matter what form of transport is involved. By increasing the cost of fuel the Government is automatically increasing the cost of freight which in turn is passed on to the consumer. In conclusion, I regret that the Government has not had sufficient foresight to deal in a practical way with liquefied gas and that it has not actually reduced the tax on it instead of increasing it. 
I briefly bring to the attention of the House the fact that on 3 and 4 December in Canberra there will be a very important athletics contest known as the Pacific Conference Games. At these Games there will be 35 athletes from each of five countries, namely, Canada, the United States of America, Japan, New Zealand and Australia. These games will be held at the new Bruce athletics stadium. It is anticipated that about 20 000 spectators will view the Games. At the present time the organising committee is selling tickets all over Australia. A considerable number of people will be coming to Canberra not only to participate as members of the teams but also as friends and people who normally follow athletics teams such as these. People will come from all over the world. What concerns me is an article I read in the  Canberra Times  on 16 August headed: 
Hotel tariffs up for games. 
Rather than read that, I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I thank the House. I refer briefly to the contents of this Press statement. It states: 
The Belconnen Way Hotel tariff for double room accommodation for a night would rise from $23.50 to $35 while the Games were on, a spokesman for the hotel said yesterday. 
It goes on to say that there will be a minimum tariff of $30 a night for either a single or double room. That means that in some hotels which at the present time are charging $2 1 the tariff will increase to $22.50. I did not believe that that article could be true; so I checked it out. Much to my horror I found that it was true. The organisers of the Games are concerned about the situation. This, to me, is a clear case of exploitation. We have a captive audience. People are coming to Canberra from overseas. They will come here and be slugged- that is the only way I can describe it- by some of the hotels in this city. The thing which amused me was the statement: 
The extra housemaids, receptionists and bar-staff needed to handle the large number of people expected at the hotel during the Games was the reason for the tariff increase. 
My knowledge of business is just the reverse. Freddie Laker says that if we will allow him to put on cheap flights he will stuff the aircraft full of people and then cut the fares in half. Qantas Airways Ltd and a number of other airlines, by following the self same policy of cramming the people in and reducing the fares, have obtained economies of scale and have been able to cut air fares severely. So the opposite should be the situation. 
I checked the matter out with the Prices Commissioner. He told me that hotel and motel accommodation is not controlled under the prices regulations 1949. But all it requires is for the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  to make a declaration and the prices controller is then in a position to investigate the prices being charged. If they are found to be unreasonable he can, I believe, direct that they be reduced io a more reasonable  level.  I call on  the  Minister for the Capital Territory, between now and the time these people will come here, to conduct a full and detailed inquiry into the matter and to determine what the tariffs should be. This country is trying to expand its tourist trade. One of the major causes for the falling off of tourists to this country has been the exorbitant increases in hotel accommodation tariffs. People will not come here if they are being exploited as these people will be. They will come here, but they will say: 'Before we came here the tariff was $20 a night. They slugged us $30 a night. For God's sake, keep away from that place'. I am afraid that that will be the attitude of people who come here, once they get stung by this exorbitant increase in tariffs. I call upon the two Ministers concernedthe Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)-  who is an another place and who is responsible for tourism, to do something positive. At this stage they should investigate the matter and do the right thing by the people. The Minister for the Capital Territory should bring down a declaration broadening the scope of the prices commissioner - 
I hope the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  takes note of what the honourable member for Holt had to say.  His  complaint is one that should be levelled completely at his own party. For 23 years when it was in government it did nothing. It has been in government for the last 20 months and likewise it has done nothing. The honourable member for Holt should direct his complaints to his own party. Tonight I shall speak on the report of the Australian Bureau of Roads on the general location in the vicinity of Newcastle of the national highway linking Sydney and Brisbane. In 1974 when the Labor Government declared national highways it left a blank rectangle from Swansea to Hexham. In the report which was prepared prior to that declaration there were suggestions not only on that area but also on a number of other points on the national highway around Australia- that there should be a detailed study to determine the exact location of the national highway. 
As I said, the Bureau of Roads was asked to prepare this report in 1974. It did so and presented it to the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 1 1 March 1976. It recommended that the national highway should go west of Lake Macquarie. That may mean nothing to honourable members but people in the Newcastle district understand completely what I mean by east and west of Lake Macquarie. The present Pacific Highway goes east of Lake Macquarie through the heavily built up suburbs of Newcastle causing a considerable amount of traffic congestion and creating ecology problems in the Blackbutt Reserve. A select committee of this Parliament made a unanimous recommendationa joint party recommendation- that the national highway should not go through Blackbutt Reserve. All these facts clearly establish that there should be no national highway east of Lake Macquarie. 
None of the people or organisations who made submissions to the Bureau of Roads supported the location east of Lake Macquarie. They all supported the location west of Lake Macquarie. Anyone interested in roads today knows that throughout the world the trend is not to put highways through cities but to put bypasses around cities. That is what this report is all about. What concerns me at the moment is the fact that the New South Wales Department of Main Roads has put proposals to the Federal Minister for Transport to spend very large sums on upgrading the temporarily declared section of national highway between Doyalson and Swansea. I hope the Minister for Transport does not accept the programs being submitted to him by the New South Wales Government. The amount of money involved is $10.5m this year. As the cost is based on 197S figures that $10.5m in reality will be approximately $15m. That amount would provide enough finance to build approximately one-third of the road west of Lake Macquarie. 
It is up to this Government to ignore the recommendations of the New South Wales Government and get on with the job of constructing the highway west of Lake Macquarie. This will provide a highway of national standard which will relieve the city of Newcastle and Lake Macquarie of a considerable amount of traffic congestion. This way it will be doing the job. Some people are advocating that the money should be spent on the Doyalson-Swansea area. If need be the Minister should de-declare- I think that is the term- the section of national highway between Doyalson and Swansea and let it revert to what it was prior to the declaration in 1974, namely, rural arterial. It should let the State Government use its own funds on upgrading that section of the Pacific Highway as a rural arterial road and get on with the job of constructing the national highway west of Lake Macquarie. That is the site on which the people of Newcastle require the national highway to be located. 
-The two Bills before the House deal with an amendment to section 6 of the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1964 and section 6 of the Television Stations Licence Fees Act 1964 respectively. The purpose of these Bills is to vary the range of licence fees payable by commercial broadcasters and commercial television licensees by providing for an additional four levels. The Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill provides for a levy of 414 per cent to be imposed on such part of the gross earnings as exceed $3.5m but do not exceed $4m. A levy of 5 per cent is to be imposed on earnings between $4m and $4.5m and of 5V4 per cent on earnings between $4.5m and S5m. A levy equal to 6 per cent is to be imposed on all amounts exceeding $5m. A similar table is to apply under the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. However, I would like to draw attention to a few matters before the Bills are submitted to a vote. One of the things that concerns me is the interlocking tie-up of the newspaper world in radio and television. Newspapers were in existence before radio came in. They immediately moved into the field of broadcasting. When television became the order of the day the newspapers, through their radio stations and their own medium, were able to take control of television throughout Australia. Rather than go through each of the individual cases, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  an appendix contained in the 28th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at pages 173, 174 and 175, a small part of page 176 and also the section dealing with the Australian Consolidated Press group at page 180. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  for agreeing to the inclusion of those pages in the  Hansard  record. The tables in this report clearly spell out the degree to which the Press has taken over control and the way in which these interlocking arrangements exist. We in politics have seen some of the harm that can flow from such arrangements. One of the greatest critics of the Australian Labor Party in the period prior to 11 November 1975 was the Murdoch Press. We believe that this was brought about because the Cabinet was not co-operative and was not prepared to agree to certain demands and requests that the Murdoch group was making in the development of fields other than the media. The media got square. I am not casting any aspersions at the present Government. 
The position is this: Political parties can be made and can be destroyed by this interlocking of the media and the control over the news. Certainly, at election time the right exists to buy time in the three areas of the media- radio, television and the newspapers. But it is the distortion of news items and of television news programs that concerns me. I can remember in particular a current affairs program and also a program on Sunday nights which dealt with the Canberra scene. I instance the way that these programs were distorted and how information was brought out. It is high time that there was some control over this form of media so that a fair go could be given to everyone. If the controllers of the media can use their machine to attack a political party, the political party or the organisation concerned should have the right of reply. 
It has been suggested that in 1972, prior to the 1972 elections, the then Liberal-National Country Party Government was destroyed by the media for personal reasons. So my remarks apply to all governments. I think it is time that some system was devised to destroy the control that the media has over the community today and the way in which it can frame people's minds with its programs. Through radio and television, those programs are brought into the kitchens, dining rooms and lounge rooms of Australian homes. 
I want to deal with the financial aspect of the two Bills. The Minister has indicated in his second reading speeches that the Bills will have very little effect on broadcasting companies. But in respect of television, the increase in licence fees for the year commencing 1 September 1977 will be $1.4m and the total amount collected will increase to about $9.3m. We do not oppose this for the simple reason that we believe the system  is well and truly able to look after itself. I will give the House some indication of the profits that are being made by the commercial television stations in four of the capital cities. I asked the statistical service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library to give me some details which it has supplied. I ask the Minister for leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 
The purpose of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Amendment Bill is to amend the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Act 1975 to correct an error in the drafting of the original Bill. As honourable members would be aware, when the previous Government decided in 1975 to set up the two Commissions- the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission- there was an agreement between the unions and the Government that officers of those commissions would be able to transfer from one commission to another in the first 5 years. I think that that provision had to be made, bearing in mind that up to that point in time all the officers were members of what was the Postmaster-General's Department. The rights of those officers had to be protected as they had previously been able to move around quite freely within the Department. 
The Government of the day brought down legislation, which the Bill before us today seeks to amend, to protect the interests of those officers. Unfortunately, in relation to appeals to the Promotion Appeals Board it was found in one particular case that the  Chairman  and members of the Board were unable to disallow a promotion and to uphold an appeal. I do not propose to name the individuals concerned. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is now aware of the details. All I want to say is that a  Mr D  appealed against the promotion of a  Mr B  into a particular position. The Board considered the appeal and decided that  Mr D  was right and that he should have been the one promoted and not  Mr B.  But the  Chairman  of the Board drew attention to the wording of the Postal and Telecommunications Commission (Transitional Provisions) Act and indicated that the Board could not change the order of promotion.Therefore  Mr D  even though his appeal in normal circumstances would have been upheld, did not have his appeal upheld. The Board confirmed the appointment of  Mr B  to the position. 
Since then the unions and the Commissions have got together and, whilst a number of appeals have been disallowed, seven appeals have been successful. However, no member of the Board has put into writing that the appeals have been upheld and that the new people have been confirmed in their positions. At that time it was agreed that an approach would be made to the Government to obtain an amendment of the Act. I believe that the appeal by  Mr D  took place in about October 1975, so I am casting no aspersions upon the present Minister. This was just one of those things which happen in the drafting of legislation. 
The Opposition supports the amendments contained in the legislation before the House. However, those seven appeals which were upheld were able to be upheld as a result of experience gained in the previous appeal made in about October 1975. I ask the Minister, who knows the details of this case as I do, to give serious consideration to trying to rectify the injustice that has been done to  Mr D.  It may well mean that another position will have to be created, but the anomaly has to be rectified. I leave it to the good judgment of the Minister to look at the matter and to see what can be done to make sure that this one man, who has been disadvantaged by the establishment of the two Commissions because of an error in drafting in the original Bill, has his position rectified. I am not suggesting that  Mr B  should be demoted because that cannot be done. He has been confirmed in his position. But  Mr D  has been seriously disadvantaged at a time in life when he cannot afford to suffer disadvantages- he has been in that particular service for many years. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation before the House. I ask the Minister to give sympathetic consideration to the case I have cited. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article appearing in the  Australian Financial Review  of 10 February 1977 which, in commenting on the expulsion of a South Korean diplomat, alleged that one ofthe coalition's most important Ministers is well known in diplomatic circles for the lavish and exclusive hospitality he has enthusiastically accepted on visits to Seoul. 
Is he the only coalition Minister to have visited South Korea in the last 12 years. 
What gifts and entertainment did he receive on his visits between (a) 9 and 13 December 1968, (b) 29 November and 3 December 1970 and (c) 13 and 17 June 1972. 
I rise to support the Opposition's amendment and so as not to delay the House I seek leave to have the text of that amendment incorporated in  Hansard. 
I do not know what is to happen at this stage now that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has moved that the House take note of the paper. The usual procedure once that motion has been moved is that the matter is placed on the Notice Paper. But as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and probably the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  are to speak on this matter, I do not know whether we are going to have a full scale debate on it. 
We on this side of the House received the appropriate two hours notice that the statement was going to be made. I do not think any honourable member would expect us at this stage to make a decision as to whether the Opposition will support the proposal, oppose it or remain neutral to it, bearing in mind that the Minister's advisers have spent some 20,000 man hours on the technical evaluation of the two systems. We on this side of the House have had a little over two hours in which to look at the paper. In fact, the reason why I was late corning into the House for the Minister's presentation of his statement was that our Committee was looking at the paper with two of the advisers which the Minister provided to confer with us. So we have just reached the stage of getting a preliminary rundown of what the statement is all about and it is a little difficult to indicate where we are going. 
From reading the Minister's statement and from the hour I had with his two technical advisers this morning, the system that has been selected appears- I emphasise that word appears'- to be a more effective system than the alternative system which was put up by STC (Australia) Pty Ltd. Problems are associated with this proposal. Men's employment is involved. The appropriate telecommunications unions are concerned for, as the Minister has correctly said, this new equipment will be easier to install and easier to maintain also and in the long term it will affect a little thing called employment. So, as far as the men are concerned, their employment is at stake. All I have is an assurance from the departmental engineer that no one will be displaced. 
I hope that the Minister will give the men in the Australian Telecommunications Commission an assurance that whichever of the two systems is introduced- the Ericsson system or the STC systemnone of the men who are presently employed in the technical side of Telecom will be displaced as a result of the introduction of that system. If the men are told that there is not going to be a mammoth lay-off, either now or in the future, that at least will have the effect of allaying some of their fears. 
On reading the paper it is obvious that there will not be any monstrous overnight change. I think the paper talks in terms of spending $ 1.3m on new equipment by 1980. That amount of $1.3m is not going to have one heck of an effect on employment. We are talking in terms of long term changes between now and, say, 1990. The Minister nods his head. I do not want to dob him in. 
-The Minister has just interjected to indicate that it will have no effect on employment at all. I thank him for that interjection, which he is not permitted to make. 
-So the position is that those fellows in Telecom can at least to some degree have their fears allayed as there is not going to be a very substantial lay-off in that section of Telecom. 
A Sydney-Melbourne confrontation is developing now as to whether the Ericsson system is going to be manufactured in Melbourne or whether the STC system is going to be manufactured in Sydney. I have been informed by the departmental technical people that the newspaper reports which state that $500m worth of equipment is to be supplied are not true. The Minister has not indicated this in his statement, but I hope that he will indicate just how much really is involved. It has been suggested to me that we are talking about the manufacture of about $200m worth of equipment- not $500m worth, as has been mentioned in the Press. So, if the Minister can make a statement in that regard it will at least clear up the matter. 
From what the Minister has said in his statement and from the advice that I have received, I believe that the work is to be shared. If STC had been awarded the original contract, Ericsson would have been given portion of the equipment to build. Now that Ericsson has been awarded the contract, portion of the equipment likewise is to be constructed in the Sydney factory of STC. Plessey Australia Pty Ltd or some of the other manufacturers of this equipment in Australia also could be given some of the work. 
I know that other members desire to speak on this statement. In view of the fact that my party is still conferring on this matter and that we have no possible hope of making a decision on it in a couple of hours, I feel that it might be appropriate at this stage if I were to seek leave to continue my remarks at some later time and if the debate were adjourned. That would allow the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  to take part in the debate at some later stage. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The question before the House in that event would be that the honourable member for Newcastle be given leave to continue his remarks later. 
-The honourable member for Mackellar has a notice of motion on this matter on the Notice Paper. In that event, I would move: 'That the debate be now adjourned'. 
We accept that. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and, as the amendment spells out the Opposition's attitude towards the Budget, I believe that it is worth repeating. It is a very good amendment. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
The House condemns the Budget because it will: 
intensify and prolong the recession, 
increase unemployment, 
have little impact on inflation, 
d ) make regressive changes in the tax system, and 
reduce living standards'. 
That amendment spells out positively and in a few words what we on this side of the House believe the Budget will do to this country. What concerns us is the credibility of the Government, the credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the credibility of his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Day by day it is becoming more obvious to the electorate that it cannot believe a word that the Prime Minister says, because of the way he distorts - 
-If you want to take points of order stand up and do not be the lout that you are. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Nobody can believe any statement that the Prime Minister makes, and the way that he distorts statistical information is criminal intent because all he is endeavouring to do is to confuse the electorate and not to tell the truth. 
I was interested in the contribution by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  It even amused the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  All the garbage that was spread over the chamber by the honourable member made even the Minister of his own Party laugh because of the bunkum that was doled out. The honourable member for Wide Bay said that in 1974-75 the Labor Government made no allocation for public transport. 
-Begging the honourable member's pardon, that is not true. In the 1974-75 program the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 approved expenditure on new projects for all the States totalling $27.85m. The total expenditure was $66.1 lm, but $27.85m was the amount allocated that year. 
-The honourable member should look at the legislation. He need not take my word for it. He should look at the facts of the matter. The honourable member for Wide Bay made mention of the amounts of money being made available for urban public transport in the cities. Just last week $lOOm was made available in tax concessions for rural producers. Do we want to go into the details of the superphosphate bounty legislation, which provided $100m, the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty and the concessions to the wool industry? Do we want to go on about all of those concessions? Of course, we on this side of the House have no strong objection to these measures but we do believe that there has to be a reasonable sharing of the wealth of this country and that it should not be concentrated on the rabbits' corner occupied by National Country Party members. 
Let us return to the Bill. The Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill provides funds amounting to $51m. Once again I take the honourable member for Wide Bay to task. Would he please do his homework and state facts when he comes into this place. He said that $5 lm was being made available for urban public transport. The fact is that $ 18.27m of this amount represents a previous appropriation from when the Labor Government was in office. An amount of $2.42m is carried over from last year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will cease interjecting. 
-I do not need his aid,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  He is not worrying me. The cost increase on approved projects was $25.3 lm. These figures, together with the amount of $5m for new projects this year, total $5 lm. So I ask the honourable member to do his homework. We can compare these figures with the work undertaken by the Labor Government in two years. In two sets of programs it allocated $ 138.2m. The States' matching grants totalled $69m. 
Let us look at the record in urban public transport of the Minister for Transport. When he was a Minister in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government prior to the Labor Party coming into office in December 1972, the State Ministers for Transport had to jump up and down on him- they had to belt the daylights out of him- at Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings to have a study undertaken. Finally the study was undertaken and the results were presented to the ATAC meeting in June 1972. The McMahon Government, in which government also the Minister was Minister for Transport, should have done something about the results of that study but it did not. These are the facts of the matter. Honourable members will remember that during the 1972 general election the present Minister for Transport was screaming that the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  should be imprisoned because he had a copy of the report of that study. He was going to have the Leader of the Opposition slapped into gaol. 
-I thank the Minister for his admission. That shows what the cockies will do. 
-History proved us right. We provided $138m in two years to upgrade urban public transport. We got on with the job. That was more than honourable members opposite have done in government. We made agreements with the States on other major rail projects. We were able to put some sense and balance into transport. 
Let us return to considering the $5m allocated this year for new projects. The Minister for Transport gave me a list of the funds requested by the States for new projects in urban public transport in 1977. These figures will make honourable members laugh. New South Wales requested $55.75m; Victoria requested $53.86m, Queensland requested $8.77m; South Australia requested $24.97m; Western Australia requested $6.92m and Tasmania requested $2.41m- a total of $ 152.68m. What was the magnificent sum they received? It was $5m. That is not bad going, is it? The Minister talks about what this Government is going to do for urban public transport but it is allocating $5m when it has been requested to allocate $152m. It is absolute peanuts and the Minister knows it. 
Another matter of concern is the manner in which these funds are being distributed amongst the States. I as a New South Welshman express my strongest objection to the paltry $600,000 that is being given to New South Wales, the largest State in Australia as far as population and urban public transport requirements are concerned. Victoria is being allocated $2m- $ lm for suburban trains and $lm for trams; Queensland is being allocated $60,000 for electric rail cars and $940,000 for buses; South Australia is being allocated $lm for buses; Western Australia is being allocated $300,000 for buses; and Tasmania is being allocated $100,000 for buses. New South Wales has the largest travelling public of the States yet it is being allocated the paltry sum of $600,000 out of a paltry, miserly allocation of$5m. 
-Of course I am. The Minister should hang his head in shame because of the paltry amount that his Government has been prepared to make available. The honourable member for Wide Bay was critical of the fact that in one year the Labor Government did not provide funds for urban public transport. It is true that we did not provide funds for urban public transport in 1975-76. But the honourable member went on to criticise our expenditure on other matters of great social importance. I ask him to make up his mind. Either we should provide funds or we should not. He wants to have it both ways. He wants to criticise us when we do not provide funds and still criticise us when we do. Like the torn cat, he squeals when he is getting it and squeals when he is not. 
What concerns me is this Government's series of disjointed alleged policies. For example, on page 23 of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in relation to the Government's crude oil policy, said: 
Without significant new discoveries in the next few years, indigenous crude oil would fall from meeting about 70 per cent of total Australian demand to about 30 per cent by 1985. 
We cannot afford a pricing policy that flies in the face of all energy conservation principles by condoning excessive consumption of our scarce presently known supplies of crude. 
We are moving to produce an appropriate energy pricing structure. 
I wish that the Government would move towards producing an energy conserving transport policy- one which will meet the needs and the requirements of the people of this country. Urban public transport is one area in which this country can cut back on the amount of money that is being spent on road construction and the like. Let us compare the paltry amount of money that is provided for urban public transport with the mammoth, the huge, sums of money that are being provided, first of all, for roads. This year the allocation is to be $475m; last year it was $433m; the year before that it was $442m. Yet all the Government can find this year is a paltry $5m for new projects. If we could get people off the roads we could conserve resources; we could cut back on the need to build some of the major roads that are being built in cities today. I thank the honourable member for Wide Bay for nodding his acknowledgement of the point. 
This world cannot afford the luxury of continuing to spend money and to use its fuel resources at the rate that it is doing those things at the present time. This country which has huge supplies of coal should be using that coal to generate electricity and using that as our energy source to provide the energy required for our railway system. If the need arose, we could even extend our public transport system to include electrically driven buses or cable cars, or something of that type. The people who are interested in transport throughout the world should provide the means whereby we can substitute public transport in our cities for the motor car, because we cannot afford the luxury of building expressways, demolishing buildings, and building roads at the rate at which countries have been doing so over the years. 
Los Angeles has a terrific, magnificent system of freeways, according to the road engineers. My God, I hope that I am never placed in the situation of having to live in that city. The planners have realised their mistakes of yesteryear. They have tried to set up urban public transport groups for the purpose of restoring public transport systems which they so foolishly demolished years ago. They got rid of their railways and their rail tracks and replaced them with these concrete jungles which are so prevalent today. We do not want to fall for that trap. If we are to be successful in moving the people in this country, particularly those in the cities, from their place of residence to their place of employment or their place of entertainment, there is really only one way by which to do it, and that is by means of public transport. We have to provide the type of transport that is required. 
The Government should be bringing to the attention of motorists the real cost of motor transport. After all, when a person buys a motor car, he has a capital investment in it. He does not see in its true light the money that he pays out for registration, third party insurance and comprehensive insurance. Both in the area of the private motor car and the commercial vehicle, I would like to see the Government lump together the road maintenance tax and all of those taxes into the petrol tax or the fuel tax so that when the owner of the family car sits behind his wheel on his way to work or on his way to some entertainment he knows the real cost he is paying at that moment to drive that motor vehicle. He then would not get the false impression that it is costing him only half as much to drive his private car to work as it would if he were to go by public transport. If all of those taxes- and they are taxes- were lumped together into the petrol tax, the price of petrol would go up for certain, but in that circumstance the motorist would be able to know the true cost of running his motor car and might not be so concerned about the prestige of owning a motor car, which is one of the major reasons why so many people own motor cars today. I hope that we can look to the Minister for Transport to do something through the Australian Transport Advisory Council with his State colleagues in that direction. That sort of move was under consideration a couple of years ago. What happened to that proposal, I do not know. 
Let me come back to public transport. The Government has no firm policy on public transport. If the Labor Government had not been defeated, we would not be debating a Bill on urban public transport at the moment and the next Bill for debate would not have been a roads Bill. Those Bills would have been lumped together. There would have been an overall transport policy. We would have obtained the advice of the Inter-State Commission, the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads. Now that those last two mentioned bodies have been amalgamated, I hope that the Parliament can now be given more realistic policies on roads instead of the one-sided, lop-sided policies that the Bureau of Roads has put together over the years. Its policies were completely and totally road oriented instead of being policies on transport, which is what this country requires. 
I come back to the matter of urban public transport. One of the things that disappoints me is the fact that this Government had made no real attempt to give the sort of leadership in the field of public transport that has got to be provided for people. If it wants to get the motorist out of his motor car and if it wants to reduce the demand for expressways through the cities and if it wants to reduce pollution and all that goes with it, it has to provide a reasonable alternative. The only reasonable alternative is to have fast, comfortable urban public transport, whether it be based on the train or the bus. That can be done. Other cities throughout the world have been able to double the speed at which thentrains travel. At the present time Australian urban passenger trains travel at about half the speed at which urban trains travel in overseas countries. If the trains were able to travel faster we could move people from point A to point B much more quickly. We have to give them what they want; namely, comfortable and fast travel. It will not cost any more. 
It was made clear from the studies that were carried out on the standard urban passenger train, according to almost half a million people who inspected the model that went on display in all the capital cities of Australia, with the exception of Hobart, that there was strong public support for it. Those Ministers who were not prepared to play politics, such as the former Minister for Transport in the previous New South Wales Liberal Government, could see the merits in it, and they gave it their support. The same could be said of the late Minister for Transport in Queensland; he gave it his support. The people from Victoria wanted to play politics over the whole matter- principally State politics-and they were critical of it. We were able to establish that that sort of public transport would attract public support. That also applies in relation to uses. There is no question about the situation that would develop if we could get a standard train or a standard bus. The manufacturers have said to me time and time again: 'Give us a standard bus, give us a standard train, and we can save thousands of dollars in their construction'. If we can provide a decent, comfortable type of public transport, it will help solve the public transport problems in Australia. It will help to reduce the demand by motorists for roads. It will help to reduce the pollution which follows from that. 
One thing that has always interested me in relation to transport is the type of carriages to be provided. A few years ago I took the opportunity to travel overseas to inspect various types of new experimental transport facilities; namely, the personal rapid transport systems. I went to Nancy in France as a guest of the Nancy City Council. If ever a city had all of the ingredients for a satisfactory type of personal rapid transport, it was that city. But I note that even at this time it has not gone on with the discussions which it was having at that time with the manufacturer and the people who were trying to market one of these systems which represents a new design and a new idea in public transport. I do not think that is the solution to the problem of urban public transport. I do not think it is the solution in Australian cities, where we are not crammed together and where the blocks of land are of a reasonable size, which means that our population is spread over a larger area than the population of similar cities in Europe. 
In Nancy 14,000 people lived in one block of flats. Alongside it was another block of almost similar size. That was to have been the terminus. We do not have that type of crowding in Australia. I hope we never do. We have our individual problems as far as transport is concerned. I believe we must go for a more rapid type of transport-not the type in operation in San Francisco, but something akin to what we have at the moment. We should have much more comfortable trains and much more comfortable buses. They should be air-conditioned, as and when required. In places such as Brisbane, with its high temperatures in the summer months, there should be air-conditioned buses. At certain times in Sydney and Melbourne the same thing should apply. I think that if this Government were to give the necessary leadership we could get people out of their cars and into public transport. 

 Mr DEPUTY  SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In the few minutes remaining to me to take part in the discussion on the States Grants (Roads) Bill, I want to confine my remarks to a few particular points rather than to develop a complete transport policy or to emphasise how roads should fit into a transport policy. Obviously the Government does not have a transport policy. The former Labor Government was endeavouring to draw up an overall transport policy so that transport would be looked upon as having one identity rather than as being a series of transport modes, including aviation, rail, road, and sea transport. A country such as Australia cannot afford that sort of luxury. 
I regret very much that the Minister for Transport (Mt Nixon) has not proceeded with the Inter-State Commission. I have an idea that he would have liked to have the Inter-State Commission in existence today. The Bill which proposed the establishment of the Commission was introduced by me, but it finished up the Minister's Bill. We accepted the amendments which the Minister proposed because he allowed the Labor Government to have what it wanted, namely, a transport interstate commission. The sooner this country gets an interstate commission the sooner we will get a much better transport system under which the mode of transport which needs assistance will receive it; the mode of transport which is most economical will receive the assistance and the support of the Government To continue with the hit and miss policy that is being pursued today and which was pursued over the 23 years that governments of the political complexion of the present Government were in office can lead only to disaster for this country. We need an efficient, economically operated transport system because of the large part that the cost of transport plays in the overall price structure in this country. Once again I regret that the Government has not done something positive about putting together a genuine, integrated transport system with oversight by an interstate commission which has the power to issue directions as to what should be done and to give very good, sound advice to the Australian Minister for Transport, whoever he may be. In that way we could overcome the situation as exists in Tasmania in which we fiddle around with the problems associated with transport and do a lot of pork barrelling, not only in the transport area but in other areas. 
I come back to the Bill. I have not paid the Minister the courtesy of showing him a table I have here and which I shall seek to have incorporated in  Hansard.  I did not know that I would get to speak in the debate. The table shows the amounts of money that have been allocated over the last 23 years for roads and the amounts of money collected in fuel tax. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709213_55_1.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and from various issues of their publication  Overseas Trade (8.11)  and from various issues  Commonwealth Payments to or for the States. 
-I thank the Minister for his courtesy. The table also shows, incidentally, a percentage calculated according to the amount of money allocated and the amount of road funds collected. Whenever we discuss a Bill concerned with roads I think that that sort of information should be brought clearly to the attention of the community as a whole. Attention should also be drawn to the amount of money being raised by way of petrol tax, to use the name by which it is commonly known, and the amount of money that is allocated for roads. I do not know whether the Minister is still proposing to go ahead with the roll-on or roll-over program rather than to pursue the old policies that we pursued. Under those policies a program for three years or five years, whatever it may be, is drawn up. At the end of that time everything comes to a halt, and the States and the Commonwealth then get into a hassel over what will happen in the following three years. The result is that interim legislation is introduced into this place, and rushed through the Parliament. That is the situation which arose when we introduced an interim Bill to give the States money for the first quarter of this financial year. That was done back in June 1977. 1 hope the Minister will use the planning provisions of section 1 8, 1 think it is, to give that sort of continuity to the States so that at least they, as the road constructing authorities, will know where they are going and what moneys they have. The economic planning can be well prepared in advance so that they can get on with the job. 
Another matter to which I wish to refer is the amount of money that has been provided for national highways. I am delighted that the Government is still adhering to the Labor Government's policy of the national Government accepting its responsibilities in planning, financing and developing national highways. It is the responsibility of the Australian Government to make sure that this country has a genuine national highway No. 1. A few years ago I took the time to drive from Cairns to Brisbane. For three parts of that journey- I refuse to call it a road- it was a series of potholes. The section from Townsville to Cairns in particular is a onetrack road which is in one holy hell of a mess. That is the only way it can be described. That members representing the area are doing nothing about it is beyond my comprehension. I am pleased that the Government has done something positive about it by including in the national highways program a reasonable amount of money for it. No doubt the States will be complaining that they are not getting sufficient for their local roads or for their urban roads. The facts are that this Parliament is a national parliament, and it should have a national transport policy. If we are to have national roads, someone must build them. The way previous governments were progressing with the Hume Highway prior to 1972 -at the rate that New South Wales and Victoria were upgrading the road- I think we worked it out at that time that it would take them something like 130 years to upgrade it. With the amount of money that is provided now, at least they will be able to get on with the job. 
I am pleased to note that the Government has allocated a reasonable amount for the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Program. This was one of the Labor Government s initiatives in road safety, to make sure that adequate money was being provided for road safety improvements. I give the previous Liberal-Country Party Government credit for agreeing to the setting up of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. It was re-appointed during our term of government. It has been re-appointed again. I think that Committee is doing a good job in bringing to the attention of the Government various aspects of road safety. 
I do not know whether the Minister will avail himself of his right to reply, but I would like from him some explanation on one matter that concerns me. Why has New South Wales been allocated only $3.3m, when Victoria has been allocated $3.5m and Queensland has been allocated $2.6m? New South Wales is the most populous State, with the largest concentrations of populations in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong, as against Melbourne with, to a lesser degree, Bendigo and Ballarat. It seems strange to me that Victoria should be getting more money than New South Wales. We tried to apportion the money on the needs of the States, without playing politics in any way whatsoever. I would like some explanation as to why Victoria is entitled to $200,000 more for road safety improvements than what New South Wales has been allocated. 
The other point I make is that the Labor Government was criticised because it reduced its allocation to the States for rural local roads. It is true that we did. We created a new category called urban local roads which, I am pleased to say, the Government has maintained and for which it has allocated a reasonable amount. We thought we had an understanding with the States that they would pick up their responsiblities in relation to rural local roads and that we would withdraw from that area and concentrate on national roads. I believe it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to concentrate on national highways, their maintenance and construction, major commercial and export roads and the construction of main roads in the form of urban and arterial highways; the States should pick up the responsibilities for the local urban roads or the rural urban roads. They did not. They left us holding the bag, so to speak. The Government has got square with them now. It has provided large sums of money for their rural local roads but has cut back the States on their other arterial roads. The Government has got square with them in another area. I note that point. 
The Government brags about the amount of money it has provided to the States for rural local roads. Do not forget that it has cut hell out of the allocation for urban arterial roads and, to some degree, the rural arterial roads. It is a question of push-pull. In reality, when one compares the amounts of money that were made available for roads by the Labor Government with the amount that is being made available by this Government, taking into consideration the rate of inflation, the position is that less money, in real terms today, is being allocated for roads. I adhere to my undertaking that I would conclude by 10.25 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-by leave- The Opposition is quite happy about the study being conducted, but there are a number of things which the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has not done in this case. Firstly, what has happened to the Aus.tralian Consolidated Press Ltd report? Why can honourable members not have that report? Why could it npt have been tabled tonight with the statement so that aU honourable members and the community as a whole would have been able to assess its relative merits? Not only the Packer Press but also the Fairfaxes, the Murdochs and the Ansetts will be interested in this matter. The Fairfaxes, the Murdochs and the Ansetts are very substantial subscribers to the election campaign funds of the Liberal and National Country parties. What is wrong with their having some opportunity to see what the report contains and to make a comment? I have no objection to the tabling of the report. Let us have as broad a study as possible of it. 
Whilst we are talking about reports, I ask why the Minister has not tabled the report that was commissioned by the Labor Government when it was in office. A study was conducted to consider whether Australia would put up a satellite of its own, whether we would be wholly, solely and totally responsible for it, whether we would go into partnership with the Japanese or whether we would join with Indonesia which I understand put one up recently. All these things have not been spelt out in the Minister's statement. It is obvious that this is all part of the Government's election campaign. It is reminiscent of Menzies' leadership in 1963 when the Parliament was bombarded with all the goodies about the place. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has now been the Minister for 20 months. Is it the Packer Press which stirred him? Why did he not do something about the report commissioned by the Labor Government? I think it was started by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and finished by  Senator Bishop  who was his successor as Postmaster-General. 
The Liberal Party is not the only party which is interested in satellites and what is being provided. I understand that the report which was brought in during the term of the Labor Government made certain recommendations on the timing of putting up a satellite. People who are interested in this matter have been making inquiries of top engineers in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. They want to know what has happened to the satellite. They have been told that it will not be ready for a while. That is why I compare this time of the year in 1977 with this time of the year in 1963 when old Ming was running the show. If honourable members opposite are happy with the Dunstan result, we are delighted, and we will be happy to have an election. Nevill Wran is having a look at one also. 
-That is right, Nifty Neville. He is too smart for the Liberal boys and they know it. I am not so much concerned with what the Minister has said in his statement; I am more concerned about what he has not said. 
-I read it. I admit that I had difficulty in reading it. It took me all the dinner break to read the two and a half pages of it. What I am concerned about is what was not said in that statement because the things that have not been said are the things that I think should be concerning all Australians. If we are to have a satellite at least let us have the best satellite and let it be made available for public study, not just for an internal departmental study. 
-It is not a question of for how long we want to go. If we are putting up a satellite it will be up there for some considerable time. They do not cost  2Vic  each; they are an expensive exercise, and I think that the best possible facility should be provided. I would also like the Minister to tell us the differences between this satellite and the one with which the Overseas Telecommunications Commission is associated. I believe that the one in which it was interested was lost in the Indian Ocean. 
It was a partnership one. Is it proposed that this satellite will take in overseas telecommunications? Will it become a replacement as a navigational aid for the Omega system? If it is proposed to replace Omega- I am asking these questions purely and simply because the Department of Transport is involved in this interdepartmental committee- why is the Minister for Transport going ahead with Omega? I repeat, I am concerned with the things that are not in the statement. I think that the Minister should have been saying a little more about the cost of this proposed satellite. No figure is mentioned in the statement to indicate whether it will cost $10 or $100m. Perhaps the statement was prepared hurriedly and it was not known what the cost would be, but I think that at least the Minister could have paid honourable members the courtesy of giving us some indication of the approximate cost of it, even if it finished up like the cost of the F 1 1 1 s. I want to know whether it is proposed that other commercial television channels will have access to it or whether only the Packer Press will be associated with it. These are the things that have not been explained by the Minister in his paper. 
I ask that, before it goes any further, the reports that have been presented to the Minister by Consolidated Press and the report which was prepared for the Australian Labor Party Government should be tabled in the Parliament so that honourable members will have access to those two reports, so that they will have some knowledge of them and at least be in a position in which they can make some judgment instead of being served up with a paper such as this. I was advised at about 6.5 p.m. that the statement would be made at 8 o'clock. It is true that the Minister gave us the two hours notice required. I am not bitching. This is a very technical piece of paper. The Minister obviously does not know anything about it himself. 
-He is no orphan; that is perfectly true, but at least if we had the benefit of the reports that are available we could obtain technical advice, just as he can obtain technical advice as to what is the best system to adopt and what is the best way to go about it. We have people on our side of the House here who are just as technically equipped as the people who assist the Minister. 
-They may be technically equipped in all sorts of ways. I do not wish to make any further comment on this matter but I hope that the Minister will at least give some serious consideration to the points I have made with regard to making available to honourable members the reports involved. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I draw his attention to the announcement that he made on 22 September that the Government had set up a task force to carry out a detailed investigation into a report which he had recently received from the Australian Consolidated Press Ltd entitled: 'Opportunity for Television Program Distribution in Australia using Satellites'. I ask the Minister whether he is aware of a feasibility study into the development of a domestic satellite system which was commissioned by a former Postmaster-General and which was received by  Senator Bishop  when he was 
Postmaster-General in the former Government? Will the Minister table both these reports so that honourable members will be aware of what they contain? If not, why not? Having in mind that the task force will be considering a report by the Australian Consolidated Press Ltd, will the Minister give honourable members an assurance that all television and broadcasting operators will likewise be given an opportunity of putting a point of view to the task force? Also, will the Australian Broadcasting Commission be given an opportunity to comment? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Which commercial television and radio stations transmitted the broadcasts on uranium by the Prime Minister on 28 August 1977 and the Leader of the Opposition on 4 September 1977 and at what time did each do so. 
We have just heard a typical speech from the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  It was just garbage. It shows how little he knows about transport when honourable members have to sit here for 10 minutes and listen to that sort of speech. He has now left the chamber. He could not bolt out quickly enough. I draw attention to the fact that once again the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is not in the chamber during the discussion of the estimates for his Department. The discussion of the estimates for each department is an important part of the Budget debate. But where is the Minister? He is not to be sighted anywhere. He has not been sighted in the chamber at any time during this debate. I draw attention to the fact that, of 11 Bills that were introduced into this placesome of which undid the very good things which the Labor Government did in the area of transport- the Minister could muster sufficient interest to come into this place and take part in the debate on only three of them. It must be disappointing for the officers of the Department of Transport sitting in the advisers' benches that the Minister is not here to give the lead as to what is going on as far as the Department is concerned. These gentlemen have my sympathy. They have a Minister who has no interest in his Department. 
I want to draw to the attention of the Parliament a decision that was taken by the Labor Government to build four large bulk ships- two 120,000 tonners and two 140,000 tonnerswhich would carry Australia's iron ore exports and establish a large bulk shipping line under the control of the Australian National Line. In 1973 the then  chairman  of ANL,  Mr Weymouth,  with my approval, together with the general manager of ANL went to Japan and had discussions with steel industry managers there. They came to an understanding that, if the Australian National Line or an Australian shipping line had ships of sufficient capacity to carry ore, it would get sufficient work to maintain those ships. At that time the Japanese shipbuilding industry was so loaded with orders that it did not have the opportunity to build those ships. When the question of building the ships in Japan was discussed with the Japanese- it made sense in view of the fact that we intended to carry iron ore from Australia to Japan, so at least we could have built the ships in Japan- unfortunately the Japanese shipbuilding industry had so many orders to fill that it could not even give any indication when the ships could be delivered. The result was that at that stage only two shipbuilding yards in the world could give any reasonable delivery time. The result was that ANL placed orders for two of those ships to be built in Sweden and the other two in West Germany. The total cost of the four ships was in excess of $ 100m. 
What disappoints me is to see today that two of those ships are laid up and have never been used since they were completed. More than $50m worth of ships is just lying idle, not being used, because the line does not have orders on which it could use them. What also disappoints me is the fact that, in my humble opinion, the Minister is not applying sufficient pressure or taking sufficient action to ensure that those two ships are employed and that Austraiian labour is employed on them. Instead it is creating a situation similar to that which exists with Utah. Furthermore the Government has refused to move into the field of carrying Australian crude oil imports. It has dismantled the policy of 40:40:20 which we laid down. Immediately this Government came to power it dismantled that policy. So the position today is that the Australian shipping industry is being neglected. Ships that have been paid for by the Australian National Line are now tied up, when we had a definite understanding that they would be used. Without that understanding, those four ships- two of them are working and two of them are laid up- would not have been built at that stage. So I simply bring out those points in order to clarify the position for anyone who says that ANL went into that trade blindly without any prior consultation or understanding of the situation. 
Another matter I would like to bring to the attention of the Committee is the need for the Government to stop holding inquiries and to get on with the job of developing the Sydney airport, either on its present site or possibly on another site. Any suggestions that there may be a Sydney airport at Mascot and a second airport located somewhere else are just crazy. If another airport is to be built it has to be large enough to cater for the whole of the traffic that will be moving through Sydney and the present airport closed down. There is no way that a city the size of Sydney should have two international or two domestic airports. The Sydney airport has to be located in one position. 
I put forward the proposition that the present inquiry should be looking at the possibility of constructing an open V runway- something oriented along the lines of the 31-13. At the present time we have a 16-34 runway and an 07-25 runway- north-south, east-west runways. A runway should be built in such a way that there is no need to carry out the demolition of any existing buildings. The only buildings that would be demolished would be the old tower and the existing fire station, which we all know is to be shifted to another site. I believe that the decision has already been taken. If it has not, I point out that it was well on the way to being taken before 1 1 November 1975. 
So we could have three runways operating. It is wrong for people to say that these runways are not effective. We could construct a runway of some 6,500 feet commencing from approximately the position of the present 16-34 runway. That would cater for all the DC9 and 727 traffic that would be using the Sydney airport. That would have the effect not only of providing the means of operating the airport more efficiently and eliminating some of the delays that occur from time to time but also of paying a dividend in the form of a reduction in aircraft noise, because an aircraft taking off on a 31-13 runway would not pass over any residential areas; it would pass over water or over vacant land entirely. So that is a proposition which I put forward. 
As I was saying, open V runways are used right throughout the world. In the limited time that is available to me I would just like to mention quickly some of the large cities in the United States which have open V runways. They include the La Guardia airport in New York, Baltimore, Newark, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Greater Pittsburgh, Lambert-St Louis, Miami International, Washington International, Seattle-Tacoma International, Cleveland International, Detroit Metropolitan, Minneapolis-St Paul International, Kansas City, Dallas and the Logan Air- port at Boston. They are all major airports in the Inked States which have open V runways. That is a proposition which should be looked at for Sydney. 
I also want to discount the suggestions that are being made by some people that commuter aircraft should be kept out of Sydney. Let us get one thing very clear and very positive: Commuter aircraft in this country are doing a first class job of providing air transport for a lot of people who under normal circumstances would not be sufficient in number to justify the operation of even a Friendship aircraft. These commuter aircraft have to be blended in with the existing arrangement in Sydney, either by locating a 2,000 feet runway on the eastern end of the airport, probably parallel with General Holmes Drive, or even putting it on the southern side of the eastwest runway so that it runs once again parallel with General Holmes Drive. Either one or two runways could be located in those positions. If that were done it would reduce a considerable amount of the pressure that exists at the present time on the two major runways- the 07-25 runway and the 16-34 runway. Even though the Minister is not present in the chamber, I ask his advisers who are present to take this proposition to him for consideration, so that at least the commuter operators who are using Sydney airport and who are providing a first class service for people from the areas that they serve can continue to operate. 
I regret that in the limited time of 10 minutes available in a discussion of this type one cannot say very much. However, I regret very much that this Government has not moved yet to do anything about establishing a transport accident investigation authority, because I believe there is a need for one. In the aviation industry last year 266 accidents occurred, 19 of which were fatal claiming 54 lives. I have spoken on a number of occasions in this House about the accident involving the Heron aircraft that crashed on approach to the Cairns airport. That accident should have been the subject of investigations by transport investigation authorities. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The estimates under discussion are for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I draw the attention of honourable members to one very important factor; that is, that the Committee has just disposed of the estimates for the Department of Science and during the Committee's discussion the Minister representing the Minister for Science in this chamber was nowhere to be seen. We have now moved on to the estimates for the Post and Telecommunications Department and once again the Minister responsible, in this case the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  is nowhere to be seen. Likewise, last week when we dealt with the estimates for the Department of Transport, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was missing. The Postal and Telecommunications Department, comprising Telecom Australia, Australia Post and a number of other bodies, is one of the largest employers of labour in Australia. It covers the television and broadcasting media of this country. Yet the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is conspicuous by his absence from the chamber. I think that indicates the Government's whole attitude towards this Parliament, as we have seen from the way in which the Government has treated it over the years. 
Telecom Australia employs 88,000 people and Australia Post employs 32,000 people. That makes them the largest employers of labour. Billions of dollars are invested in the capitalisation of the industry. So these estimates are important. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has now joined us in the debate. I am concerned about the manner in which a number of matters have been brought before the Parliament. On 22 September, on two hours notice, which is the standing agreement, the Opposition was presented with a paper concerning a domestic satellite system for broadcasting and telecommunications. In my comments on that occasion I drew attention to the fact that when the Australian Labor Party was in government between 1972 and 1975 the Postmaster-General, as he was then called, was commissioned to report on a domestic satellite system. Obviously that report, together with the later report from Australian Consolidated Press, is in the hands of the Minister. On 22 September I asked that the reports be made available so that Opposition members who were interested would have the opportunity of perusing them and taking advice on them. About a fortnight ago I asked whether the Minister would table the reports. To this date no reports have been tabled and so honourable members in this place have not had the opportunity to study them. 
We are not talking about a satellite costing some minimal amount. According to the advice I have received, it could cost something like $140m. It is a major item of expenditure for the Minister's Department I feel that the Minister is handling this Parliament in a very casual way in not bringing these facts and figures to the attention of honourable members so that all of us can have the opportunity to study them. It is pretty obvious that the new Government after December of this year will be in a position to study them. I hope that the new Minister will at least show the courtesy to the Parliament of reverting back to open government and of making facts and figures available to the members of the Opposition. As I mentioned, we are talking about the largest employer of labour in Australia. I am concerned about the way in which the Government is continuously bringing that industry to the verge of disruption. 
-We set up the commissions. That is perfectly true and we do not withdraw from it for one second. All we set out to do was set up what has proved to be a more efficient method of handling postal and telecommunications matters. What concerns me is the obvious Government intrusion into the industry which is continually on the verge of industrial action brought about by unnecessary, provocative action. The Government decided to take the preliminary steps of bringing in improvements and of expanding and modernising the telecommunications system. We on this side of the chamber supported those moves. I indicated that on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. But what concerns me is that the men in the industry have imposed work bans and limitations because they cannot reach understanding with the Minister or the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I am not blaming the Commission because I think it is deliberate Government action, as we saw in the case of the State Electricity Commission workers strike in Victoria in which that State was brought to the point of collapse because this Government wanted an election on the issue of industrial problems. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting. 
-Why did you gag the debate last night on the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development? It was because you were afraid of what the Opposition would bring up about the crookedness and corruption of your party in land deals in Victoria. That is why you gagged it, so you shut up. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Newcastle will address his remarks through the Chair. 
-I want to convey those remarks to him through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  He knows that he is a member of a crooked party that is corrupt and rotten in Victoria. He is afraid of the facts. I was saying that the Opposition is concerned about the industrial problems that exist today in the Minister's Department which have been brought about and provoked because the Government desires to have an election on the issue of industrial problems throughout the country. I ask the Minister to review this question. The Opposition supports the introduction of a new system of telephones and everything that goes with it. We support it because we believe that in the long term the country will benefit by it. But we ask the Minister at least to ensure that there is enough sense and enough reason in the system so that men will not be afraid of losing their jobs. That is what causes industrial troubles. Men are afraid of where they will finish up as a result of modernisation. That is why they strike and why they impose work bans. They are looking for security, and that is what most workers look for. 
The same thing can be said about the decision to decentralise Australia Post throughout New South Wales. Once again I support the decision that has been made. I strongly support the setting up of the mail exchange at Newcastle in my electorate which is providing 48 new jobs for people in Newcastle. That city has one of the highest levels of unemployment, and that has been caused by this Liberal-National Country Party Government. We want to make sure that the provocation that is taking place at present of the people who work at the Redfern Mail Exchange is minimised. The Government should reach some basis of understanding with these people, because once again their concern is for the security of their position and their future. They do not want to finish up on the dole, being accused of being dole bludgers when all they want is work. So we look to the Government to do something in these three areas to bring about development with industrial peace and harmony, not the trouble caused by the Minister, in response to provocative questions directed to him, giving provocative answers which stirs the men up rather than settling them down. This action has been taken deliberately to cause trouble in the trade union movement. No other workers come in contact with John Citizen more than do the people who deliver the mail, make telephone calls and send telegrams. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
-During Question Time the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  in response to a Dorothy Dix question, said that during my term as Minister for Transport I had neglected fire-fighting services and facilities at airports. He drew attention to the fact that prior to 1972 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had spent a certain amount of money on airports when he was Minister. He was not the Minister.  Senator Cotton  was, if I remember rightly. The Minister also said that during our term of office we spent a certain amount of money and that since then this Government has spent a certain amount of money. I draw attention to the fact that during my time as Minister no safety facilities were neglected or in any way not taken into consideration when departmental reports were brought to my attention. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that a decision, as best I recall, was taken by me as Minister on the relocation of the fire-fighting services and facilities at Mascot Airport to bring them into line with international standards. That decision was taken. As at this time, almost two years after the decision was taken, that facility has not been brought up to international standard, as required. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has a very lengthy letter which is in the form of a direction to the industry in regard to navigation matters. 
-A11 right, I will not blow it. It clearly indicates that the Government is severely cutting back as far as those facilities are concerned. The Labor Government set up the Road Safety and Standards Authority. This Government dismantled it, with no regard whatever to the thousands of people who are killed and maimed on the roads. That toll could be reduced. I have requested the setting up of a transport accident investigation authority. There has been no move by the Minister in any of these areas. I completely reject the statement that safety in any form was in any way neglected by me as Minister for Transport. 
The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1977 now before the House takes the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal a stage further and defines its functions. Among these functions the most significant are: To grant, renew and revoke licences, to determine program standards and conditions of advertising, and to determine hours during which programs may be transmitted. The Bill also provides that the inquiries of the Tribunal, including those related to licensing, to be public unless the Tribunal is satisfied that it is desirable that all or part of the proceedings should be private. The Bill follows up some of the recommendations of the Green report that the Tribunal should have these functions. They are an extension of those of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in that the Tribunal will exercise powers now held by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in regard to the granting, renewing and revoking of licences for stations, translator stations and repeater stations, the licensing of public as well as commercial stations and it can hold public inquiries into licence renewals. However, and this is most important, the Bill does not follow the recommendations of the Green report on the establishment of a broadcasting planning board. 
The Opposition is most critical of the provisions in this Bill and the criticism relates to so many clauses of the Bill that we propose to move an amendment to withdraw the Bill because we consider that it is a Bill that cannot be amended in such a way as to make it a good Bill. So there is only one thing to do about it and that is to move an amendment. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted because (a) it greatly increases the power of the Minister in relation to licensing of broadcastmg and television services and is contrary to the stated intention of the Government to "take broadcasting out of politics", (b) the functions of the proposed Special Broadcasting Service are vague and imprecise and do not provide adequate machinery for the provision of ethnic broadcasting services, and (c) there is inadequate provision for public participation and involvement in the process of broadcasting regulation '. 
In support of that amendment, this legislation is important legislation. It has been rushed into the Parliament. It is a matter of great public importance but there has been inadequate time for consideration on this Bill. The Minister has said again and again that he wants full public debate on and participation in broadcasting policy. This Bill was listed on the business sheet yesterday and the day before. It was listed for debate on Tuesday and then it was put at the bottom of the list for debate on Wednesday. Obviously the reason for this is that there is still conflict within the ranks of the Government as to what is required to be written into this Bill. As I said, the Bill is being rushed through. It is not in the best interests of the industry as a whole that this legislation should be pushed through in the manner in which it has been brought before the Parliament. 
We make the point that the Minister is giving lip service to the claim that the Government requires full public debate on and participation in broadcasting policy because that is not happening. This is something that he has said time and time again. He said it when the report of the inquiry into broadcasting was tabled in the Parliament. He said it again when the report of the Tribunal on self regulation was tabled in the Parliament. He has said it on numerous occasions but he has given only lip service to the statement. I think he is a victim of his own Party. Nothing really has been done to implement the recommendations of the Green report on broadcasting. Nothing really has been done to implement the findings of the Tribunal and as happened in December 1976 the Minister has rushed legislation into the Parliament without adequate time for public debate. 
This legislation has been criticised by representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, by public broadcasters, by the commercial sector of the industry and by community interest groups concerned with broadcasting. No group associated with broadcasting is satisfied with the provisions of this legislation and no group concerned with broadcasting, if I might say so, is satisfied with the performance of the Minister as far as this legislation is concerned. When I talk of various groups not being satisfied with what is going on, I mean that it is obvious, as I said a moment ago, that the Minister is having problems inside his own party. I refer to the report in the  Age  of 13 October headed 'MPs force change to new bill'. That does not mean the changes were made in the Parliament. It refers to members of Parliament in the Liberal Party room.T he statement goes on to say: 
Government MPs strongly criticised the Postal and Telecommunications Department over the drafting of the bill. 
When someone condemns a department he is condemning the Minister as well. The article continues: 
The bill has been changed at least six times over the past seven weeks by backbench pressure. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  on his achievements in this regard to harrass the Minister but it hasnot been done with any honest intent. It has been done at the instigation of his former employer who wields great influence on the Liberal and National Country parties in this Parliament. The Press report goes on to say: 
Yesterday's attack - 
This is dated 13 October- on the Postal and Telecommunications Department was led by  Mr Jull  (Queensland) and  Senator Townley  (Tasmania). 
Incidentally, none of these statements that have appeared in the Press have yet been disowned by any of these members to whom I refer. They all have an opportunity as we all have, as you know  Mr Speaker,  because all we have to do is to whisper in your ear that we have been misreported and you will give us the opportunity of denying something or explaining now we have been misreported. I cannot recall the honourable member having stood up in this place and claimed to have been misreported. Therefore, I take it that this Press report is a factual report of just what has been going on as far as the Liberal Party is concerned. The article goes on to say: 

 Mr Jull criticised a clause in the original draft of the Bill which would have given the tribunal discretion to reissue licences for a minimum period of 6 months as a disciplinary measure. 
It is believed the minimum period has been increased to 12 months in the final draft to the tabled today. 
Congratulations to the honourable member; he stood over his Minister and Reg will give him a pat on the back and say: 'Well done my man; good man. When you get tossed out on election day on 10 December I will give you your job back again with Channel 0.I congratulate him on doing his job faithfully in this place on behalf of  Sir Reg.  The next one referred to in the Press article was  Senator Townley.  He did not do as well as the honourable member for Bowman. The article reads: 

 Senator Townley attacked the clause giving the tribunal power to suspend stations for up to seven days for breaches of the law because of the effect it could have on their turnover. He indicated he would try to change the clause before the Bill was debated next week. 
It was damned bad luck; he did not get away with it. I believe that he has been one of the sup- porters of the Government who, over the years, h ave found  Sir Reginald  to be a great benefactor.  Senator Townley  found him to be of great assistance when he stood as an independent Liberal in Tasmania. With Ansett support he was able to get out sufficient propaganda and set himself elected. So, congratulations to the honourable member for Bowman and bad luck to  Senator Townley  who did not get away with what he was trying to do. One of the tragedies is that Ansett has wielded such great influence in the decision making of the Liberal Party in this Parliament. 
I come back to the Bill. I draw attention once again to the way in which the Minister has been treating this Parliament and to the way in which legislation has been brought in at short notice. In 1976 the Minister introduced the Government's first amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act. Like this Bill, they were rushed into Parliament, The Government at that time hoped to sack the Australian Broadcasting Commission without any public criticism and with the minimum of fuss. The Government also hoped to disband the Australian Broadcasting Control Board with a minimum of fuss. But public concern and pressure, I am pleased to say, saved the ABC on that occasion. Although this legislation was rushed through Parliament in 1976 some of it, such as the provisions for the appointment of a broadcasting council, has not yet been proclaimed because of the pressure of a section of the commercial industry. As I understand the present setup of the industry, it is not prepared to serve on the council and is not prepared to work with the ABC. A section of the piece of legislation that was rushed into Parliament in the dying hours of that year has still not been proclaimed. We are going through the same process again of rushed legislation, a lack of opportunity for public debate and legislation which does not reflect the reports and advice which the 
Government has received. I will deal with that matter in greater length later in my speech. 
The Government's policy on broadcasting has been characterised by a series of inquiries accompanied by inadequate legislation. In other words the inquiries do not do what the Minister wants them to do. So the Government has to get around the matter the best way it can. The major refrain of the Minister has been the frequently expressed and supposed policy of the Government of taking broadcasting out of politics. If ever a government spoke with a forked tongue in relation to its policy it is this Government in relation to this aspect of its broadcasting policy. This legislation, the old two-card. trick, the thimble and pea trick, has involved the Government more heavily in broadcasting policy than ever before. 
A traditional objectionable feature of the broadcasting policy over many years has been the power of the Minister to grant broadcasting licences. This traditional objection has existed since  Sir Robert  Menzies overruled the advice of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in order to give his mentor,  Sir Reginald  Ansett, the licence for the 0-10 network. It is always interesting to see, as I have said, the way in which  Sir Reginald  can influence this Parliament and get what he wants in regard to television stations and airline policies. Amendments to be moved later today clearly are associated in principle with the two-airline policy with which the an* transport industry is tied up. So that honourable members will be aware of what the Labor Party's policy is I refer them to a written policy which clearly spells out the things that we believe should be done in regard to broadcasting and television. This is in contrast to the verbal statements that are made from time to time by the Minister and members of his party which, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown time and time again, cannot be believed because they say that circumstances change and that they are entitled to change their policies with the circumstances. I ask leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the Labor Party's policy on broadcasting and television as determined at the Perth Conference in July of this year. 
-I thank the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, and the House. This Bill proposes to take the licensing function away from the Minister and give it to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. To this extent the legislation is worthy of support. But the power of renewing licences given to the Tribunal is a very empty power in view of the new powers which the Minister takes upon himself by virtue of this legislation. The Minister will decide what applications for licences he will call for and what specifications and conditions will be attached to these licences. Even during the currency of a licence, the Minister is empowered to alter its specifications and conditions. It leaves little room for confidence for a licensee who wants some security in relation to a licence. It gives little opportunity for public involvement in the licensing process. It may mean that the Minister calls for no licence at all. Effectively and theoretically at least it would enable the Minister without any public involvement to determine the nature and content of broadcasting programs in the commercial and public broadcasting sector. 
In the national sector, the ABC, this Government has already shown by financially squeezing the ABC, and by attacks by prominent Ministers that it is prepared to interfere with the independence of that sector. Let us look at the case of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in the changeover period after the Labor Government was sacked by the Governor-General in November 1975. One of the first things that the then Acting Minister for Transport, Peter Nixon, did was to conduct a violent attack on the impartiality of the ABC. Unfortunately, Government supporters see partiality of a broadcasting system as presenting both sides of an argument. Government supporters have become accustomed to one-eyed partial points of view that have been put out in the Press, on the radio and on television. Amendments to be moved later will set out once again to protect that partiality. 
The Tribunal is left with very limited real powers. Broadcasting has not been taken out of politics. It has been put in the hands of the Minister. The Minister will now have sole control over planning a broadcasting structure which will become more susceptible to political pressures and decisions and less open to public involvement. This can and may lead to intolerable political pressures in the broadcasting system which the Annan Committee in Great Britain criticised for its lack of freedom of expression and news. Rather than pass over the matter, I propose to read from the report of the Committee on the Future of Broadcasting chaired by Lord Annan. The report, which was presented to the British Parliament in March of this year, states: 
Yet when London Weekend ran into difficulties, the authority seemed willing to jettison this principle and allow  Mr Murdoch  substantial power within the company. This was one of the reasons for public concern. In Australia, newspaper interests have gained control of television stations with very sharp repercussions upon political expression and news. Is thhere a risk of the same thing happening here? 
Honourable members should not forget that the Murdoch referred to in that report is the Murdoch of Australian fame who owns so many radio, television and newspaper companies in Australia. This Committee, which was chaired by Lord Annan and which had great credibility in the United Kingdom, was concerned that the British media was not to follow the rackets that exist in Australia today and the one-eyed approach to the presentation of news. 
The Government has completely ignored the proposals of its own inquiry into broadcasting that a broadcast planning board be established which would give at least some independent advice on the planning of a broadcasting system. Instead, these powers go to the Minister and broadcasting is put right in the political arena. Rather than read the recommendations of the 
Government's inquiry, I seek leave to incorporate 'Section L: Summary of Recommendations 'in  Hansard. 
The Opposition opposes clause 3, which reads: 
A member who, on the date on which he becomes a member, has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business carried on in Australia or in a body corporate carrying on such a business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member, shall dispose of the interest within 14 days after that date. 
One of the things about which I am a little concerned in relation to what is going on behind the scenes is that the Government wrote into the 
Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976-that was Act No. 187 of 1976-an amendment which required non-appointment. The relevant section of the Act reads: 
A person shall not be appointed as a member if he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business carried on in Australia, or in a body corporate carrying on such a business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member. 
The Opposition is completely in accord with the amendment moved by the Government 12 months ago. We are worried about this matter. I would like the Minister in his reply to tell us why the Government is now amending its own legislation, softening up its own legislation in a way which gets away from the independence about which we on this side of the House are so concerned. We are concerned that the whole broadcasting and television system be as independent as possible, that it be beyond government control, beyond the position where people who have a pecuniary interest can be appointed to a policymaking position. The information I have is that the Government is having some trouble in appointing some of its party members. In order to achieve that it has had to introduce this amendment. 
As I said in my speech at the second reading stage, the legislation at the moment provides that a person who has a pecuniary interest cannot be appointed. Under the proposed set up Kerry Packer could be appointed provided that within 14 days of his appointment he transferred his interest to his wife. Yesterday the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said in the Parliament that he has no interest in radio or television or in the media generally. It is true that he has no interest, but his wife and his family have an interest. So we come to the point of asking the question: Just where does pecuniary interest start and where does it finish? Can a person say that he has no responsibility because it is his wife who has the interest in certain companies? I think such a person might be in a little bit of trouble. Let us all go quietly and acknowledge the fact that the idea of there being a weaker sex is just so much rubbish. When the time comes, we all toe the line. I reckon that the  Deputy  Prime Minister is no different to any other male. When he has pressure put on him he will jump and do as he is told by the weaker member of the family. 
So we come back to this whole question of pecuniary interest. I want the Minister to give a pretty solid explanation of just what is under way. What is going on behind the scenes in relation to all of this? Whom does the Government want to appoint to some of these boards and tribunals? What party members is the Government trying to line up? Is it  Sir Reginald  Ansett? Does it intend to appoint  Sir Reg?  I ask that question of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  Does he intend to get  Sir Reg  on to one of these boards or tribunals? Will  Sir Reg  dispose of his Channel 10 interest and pass it over to his wife? This is the big question mark. 
We want the Government to come clean and tell us what it is up to. Why is it necessary, within 12 months, to amend its own legislation to make it much easier for people with a pecuniary interest to be appointed? They can dispose of their pecuniary interest or appear to dispose of it, but they still cannot dispose of their bias and their interest in the industry as a whole. That is why I ask: What is the Minister up to? What is the Government up to? What is the real reason for amending its legislation that is less than 12 months old? Do not tell me that if it is not amended there are people who have a pecuniary interest who cannot be involved. Do not tell me that there is somebody with great knowledge of the industry who could be of assistance. From my point of view, if people have a pecuniary interest in it now there is no way that they can dispose of it so that they can bring that knowhow to the industry. So I let the matter rest at that. 
Let us be quite clear. Will the Minister come clean and tell us what the Government is up to? Time will show what it is up to. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is in trouble today because of his wife's company's land dealings that he is particularly keen to keep under cover. He is keen to keep under cover the whole inquiry into corruption over land dealings in Victoria. We do not want to bowl out the Government at some later stage. We want the facts now. Why is it necessary to amend this Government's legislation within 12 months? 
The Opposition does not oppose the amendments moved by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  However, we would like to draw attention to a few matters. One of the things that astounds me about these two amendments is the fact that they are moved by this great free enterprise Government, a government which believes in free enterprise and competition. Yet all that the Government is doing by these two amendments is to tighten up as much as it possibly can the present setup in radio and television. We all know of the interlocking situation and the way that companies own television stations and radio stations right throughout Australia. We know the system that prevails in country areas. The wife of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has shares m newspapers, radio stations and television stations on the North Coast. We all know how these companies are interlocked and how one owns the other. It all starts off with the 
Anthonys and finishes up with the Anthonys, aU the way through the whole spectrum of newspapers, radio and television. It does not matter a hang which State we look at. If we compare State with State we find the same situationall radio and television outlets are owned by a couple of companies. 
The Government obviously is setting out to protect the interests of these people. No one can tell me that the profits that these companies are making today does not warrant one of two things being done. Either the Government should step in through the Prices Justification Tribunal and closely examine and scrutinise the advertising rates that are being charged by these people today or, alternatively, the Government should grant additional licences in those areas where exorbitant profits are being made. Honourable members should look at the reports which are tabled in this place from time to time. I have here a Press cutting from the Melbourne  Age  of 29 July which states: 
Australia's 48 commercial television stations more than doubled their profits in the financial year ending June last year. 
Figures released last night by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal showed that the stations' collective profits rose from$21.5min 1974-75 to a record $44m. 
This is a general trend throughout the industry. Press reports after Press reports shows that some profits have gone up by as much as 100 per cent. I would like some explanation from the Minister about why it is so important to protect the economic viability of these various radio and television stations. The amendment refers to the 'Commercial viability of the commercial broadcasting and television stations.' The stations are certainly more than commercially viable at the moment in view of the profits which are being made. These profits have not been made only in the last 12 months. From the moment the industry was established most stations started making profits. Some of them missed out in their first year, but from that time on they have had bonus shares and lord knows what not to give the impression that the profits that they are making are not exorbitant. In reality they are making huge profits. It is up to the Government to do either one of two things: Either it should put the PJT on to the companies to check out their advertising rates or, alternatively, it should let some competition into the industry. AU that these two amendments will do is to maintain the status quo in radio and television. 
As I have said on numerous occasions during this debate, this is another example of the Government paying off its financial supporters, the people who keep it going, the people who provide it with the wherewithal to fight elections. In 1975, because of these people, the Liberal and National Country Parties had so much money to wage the election campaign that they did not know where or how to spend it. They could not get sufficient radio and television time or Press coverage to spend the money. These are the people from whom the Government gets this money. This Bill is here to protect their interests. When the Minister comes in with these amendments at this stage it is obvious that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  and probably some of the Tasmanian senators have done the Minister again. I am sorry to say this, but it would appear that the Caucus did the Minister again yesterday otherwise these clauses would have been in the Bill originally. There would not have been a need for the Minister to come in at this late stage and move two very important amendments to maintain the status quo. 
The Government should show that it is a fair dinkum free enterprise government. We are socialist. We do not complain about that. I was disappointed when the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  said that this was a socialist Bill but he could not support that claim. After hearing that I went to the  Clerk  to find out how we could get the Bill recommitted. I wondered how we could have made such a terrible mistake as to vote against a socialistic Bill and how the Minister could make such a terrible mistake as to bring in a socialistic Bill. I do not know whether the Minister is confused, but I certainly am. If the Government is a fair dinkum free enterprise government and really believes in free enterprise and competition it will withdraw these two amendments and let the market place be the determining factor as to whether a television or radio company is a good company and is doing the job. All the Government is doing is maintaining the status quo and providing a means of protection. Next year, in all probability, when the Labor Government's Minister for Post and Telecommunications presents the report of the Tribunal, the report- because the legislation will take time to have some impact and influence upon the tariffs charged- will probably show a 100 per cent profit on this year's operations as against the previous years. If the Government is a fair dinkum free enterprise government and these profits are there to be made it should increase the number of television and radio stations in areas where exorbitant profits are being made. I do not have the time to go through all the newspaper cuttings I have here but the Minister is aware of them, as are other honourable members. Let us see the Government do something about providing some real competition and not cover up for the Ansetts, the Packers and the Murdochs. 
I made certain statements when I drew the attention of honourable members to the state of this Bill and to what the amendments were setting out to do. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  said that I did not know what I was talking about in regard to profit and that television was not the profitable enterprise and investment that I was stating it was. Let us look at the financial position of some television stations. I have in front of me page 29 of today's  Australian Financial Review.  It gives the prices of shares on the Sydney Stock Exchange. The price of 50c shares in Canberra Television Ltd is $2.10. The dividend is 40 per cent. The price of 25c shares in Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd is $2.40. The dividend is 55 per cent. 
-I am not looking at the wrong column. The honourable member can come over here and have a look if he wishes. The price of 50c shares in Country Television Services Ltd is $2.10. The dividend is 40 per cent The cost of 50c shares in John Fairfax and Sons Ltd is $1.58. The dividend is 21 per cent. The cost of 50c shares in Newcastle Broadcasting and Television Corporation shares- I cannot let down the home town- is $3.1 1. The dividend is 36 per cent The listing of 50c shares in Northern Rivers Television Ltd, a country station is 78c. The dividend is  12Vi  per cent The cost of 25c shares in Queensland Television Ltd is $1.68. The dividend is 40 per cent. 
-It does not make any difference what it is on. It does not matter whether the share is 25c, 50c or $1. The 40 per cent dividend is still 40 per cent. 
-I am quoting from today's  Australian Financial Review,  which I know honourable members opposite are very interested in reading to see how their shares are going. Television and broadcasting provide a most lucrative form of income for those people in the industry. The Television Corporation's 50c shares are selling for $1.30. The dividend is 20 per cent. Television New England 40c shares are selling for 98c, and they have a 20 per cent dividend. The price for TV Wollongong $1 shares is $2.65 and the dividend is 20 per cent. They are just some instances I have given very quickly. Honourable members can see from those figures why we are concerned that this alleged free enterprise Government is introducing an amendment which will maintain the status quo and consolidate the position of all the television stations that are making the exorbitant profits I have just read out. There are many more than those I have mentioned. On the figures that were quoted in this year's annual report dealing with profits - 
We have no objection to their making a profit. We have no objection to a company making a fair and reasonable profit - 
-We have no objection to a company making a fair and reasonable profit on the capital it has invested, but when you start looking at dividends - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is not raising a point of order. He will resume his seat. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, do not antagonise the honourable member too much. He will move the gag. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Chair is quite capable of looking after itself. 
-That is right. He will be the former member for Bendigo after 10 December. The then Opposition can get itself a new Whip who can do the job more effectively than the honourable member for Bendigo has been doing it. These amendments only ensure that the financial supporters and backers of the Liberal and National Country parties will continue building up exorbitant profits in the broadcasting and television industry. I come back to what I said the first time I spoke on this Bill. It is time that the Government referred the profits of all these companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal to determine whether they are making exorbitant profits and whether the rates they are charging for advertising are exorbitant. If the rates are exorbitant the companies should be forced to reduce them or the Government should increase the number of television stations in those centres where the exorbitant profits are being made. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the annual report of Telecom Australia for the last 12 months tabled in Parliament yesterday  dislcose  a profit of $ 164.4m, depreciation of $340m and intent of $278m? Does this not in reality represent a total profit of about $783.8m and, based on the earnings of Telecom of $ 1,674m, a profit of 47 per cent- something that no private company in Australia would ever be able to achieve? Where is the depreciation reserve of $2,584m? Will the Minister direct Telecom to reduce its telephone call charges or rentals or connection fees so as to reduce these exorbitant profits? Do most of the interest charges of $278m go to Treasury, and are they in other words another form of taxation on Telecom users? To settle this question of whether the profit is exorbitant, will he refer Telecom charges to the Prices Justification Tribunal so that it can carry out a full and frank investigation into the Telecom charging system? Do the charges of today represent the greatest rip-off of any concern in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Is the Australian Bureau of Statistics carrying out a survey of Australia Post employees called  'Survey of Earnings and Hours, May 1977'. 
If so, does this survey require answers to headings a through to j with sectional questions under each heading. 
Is this survey being conducted of all employees. 
Are employees being requested to complete their own form or is it being completed secretly and without their knowledge. 
Does the Bureau of Statistics have the authority to ask for this information. 
Can there be any guarantee or assurance that names will not remain part of the data. 
Is it possible that unscrupulous persons or organisations may be interested in the information. 
Since the recent census, is there any justification for this survey. 
Why is this survey needed now when it was not needed prior to 1977. 
10) How many of these types of surveys are being conducted by the Government. 
As access to the storage of information raises the question of individual freedom in a democratic society, can these invasions of privacy be restrained by Government order. 
-I move: 
That  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that 15 per cent of all Australia's total trade is with the United States of America? Is it also a fact that 70 per cent of trade transactions are carried out in United States dollars? Because of this, does the trade weighted index at present overvalue the Australian dollar by at least eight per cent as against the United States dollar compared with a currency weighted index? Will the Treasurer consider converting the trade weighted index to a currency weighted index so that a more realistic relationship can be established between the Australian dollar and the United States dollar? 
It is customary in this debate that members from both sides of the House extend their congratulations to the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees on their election. I accept that custom and would be grateful,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you would convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees. Whilst making reference to their election I should like to draw attention to the concluding paragraph of  Mr Speaker's  expression of appreciation to the House for having elected him as  Speaker.  It is recorded on page 9 of the  Hansard  record of 2 1 February. He said: 
In the meantime I believe that the person occupying this Chair must maintain his independence from the Executive and from any threat from the Opposition. That is what I intend to do and will continue to do so that I may in my own way be seen to be impartial and in fact be impartial. 
I hope that  Mr Speaker  does maintain that policy. On the opening day of the Parliament when the  Chairman  of Committees was elected, if a telegram that lay on the Speaker's table had been read earlier there would most certainly have been a different  Chairman  of Committees. I refer to the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Lucock,  who was defeated because of a disagreement in the National Country Party. I believe that because the honourable member for Lyne had displayed a degree of impartiality during the previous Parliament, the Leader of the House, the honourable member for New England,  Mr Sinclair,  by the use of other members of that Party, saw that  Mr Lucock  was not re-elected. Hence the honourable member for Lyne is no longer the  Chairman  of Committees in this Parliament. But if  Mr Speaker  had displayed the ideals contained in the last few words of his statementimpartial and in fact be impartial'and read that telegram earlier I am certain that my congratulations today would have been extented to the honourable member for Lyne. I should also like to take the opportunity of congratulating all new members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition on their maiden speeches. It must be obvious to Government supporters that they will really have some trouble on their hands for the remainder of this Parliament and in parliaments to come because there is no doubt that those men will be members of a Labor government in the not too distant future. 
-No. The only reason that you have survived as the honourable member for Paterson is that your Party gerrymandered your electorate to take out parts of it that were voting Labor and to put in parts that would vote National Country Party- vote for you. 
You were dead set lucky to hold the seat in 1972 and 1974 and you know that it is not rubbish. You know that the facts of life are that you would not be here today if there had been a fair dinkum vote for the people of your electorate instead of the rort that was put through by your Party in altering the boundaries. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This program of sitting at the times put forward by the Government is a clear indication of the Government's incompetence in the manner in which it is trying to run this Parliament. We sat in this chamber for the first month of this year debating the Address-in-Reply when honourable members just stood up and talked and talked a heap of garbage about nothing in particular. That was because the Government was not ready to get on with its legislation. Now legislation is being rushed through this place and the hours of the Parliament are being extended to such a degree that honourable members will be stuck here for five days of the week sitting for lengthy periods. Very few of them will have the opportunity of getting back into their electorates. Maybe it is all right for a Melbourne or Sydney member who can get back to his electorate in a reasonable time, but anyone who lives outside of those two cities will be battling to get back to his electorate by the Saturday morning. Honourable members' constituents are entitled to see their members, to talk to them and to bring them their complaints. 
With the way that the Government has this program set up, with the 6 o'clock finish on Friday nights, I think it should at least be reasonable. It should at least have a look at what the Senate has been doing for years. On a Thursday afternoon it has risen at 20 minutes to five so that senators could catch the 5.30 planes home. As far as the 6 o'clock finish on the Friday night is concerned, there will be no more planes for Sydney or Melbourne after 5.30 p.m. I do not think the transport officer can persuade the airlines to hold the flights back to 6.30 or something to that effect. I am putting forward this point of view for the Acting Leader of the House  (Mr Fife)  to give some consideration as to whether honourable members should be given the opportunity of getting back to their electorates to do the work that they are required to do. 
Let us face the real facts of life. The real reason why this sitting is being jammed up in this manner is so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the other Ministers can hop in their planes and get the hell out of the country. It is a pity they do not get out of it and stay out of it. The country would be run a lot better without Fraser being here as he is at the moment, making a botch of the economy, with the unemployment the way that it is at the present time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Would the honourable member for Newcastle kindly restrain his manner of expression a little? 
-The Prime Minister annoys me and when I get annoyed I like to express myself in the manner that is most descriptive and describe him for what I think he is- a bungler. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to serious concern within the Greek community over the treatment of people involved in inquiries into alleged social security frauds? Has any action been taken by the Government to ensure that authorities do not abuse the basic civil rights of people concerned in these inquiries? If any action has been taken to protect their civil rights, can he indicate to the House what it is? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the security report used by the Government to justify its purchase of two Boeing 727 aircraft for the Prime Minister's personal use on overseas travel. Is it true that the report does not make a clear cut recommendation in support of the purchase of any aircraft, let alone two aircraft? Does the report clearly state that the security risks are minimal when using aircraft chartered either from Qantas Airways Ltd or by Qantas Airways Ltd? In the light of this report, how does the Government justify the extravagant purchase at taxpayers' expense, of two aircraft at a cost of somewhere between $20m and $40m? Does the Prime Minister still believe that life was not meant to be easy? 
-Does the Minister for Defence recall that yesterday he stated: 
There comes a time when technical considerations must be characterised as having important political significance, and should be communicated through policy channels as distinct from straight technical channels. 
Does he regard publicly acknowledged policy decisions of the United States of America to acquire new satellite terminal equipment for the North West Cape base and to construct a new satellite ground facility there in 1980-8 1 as going well beyond mere technical considerations and properly requiring to be treated as a matter having a very high policy content? When was this policy decision of the United States conveyed to his Department; to whom was it conveyed; what steps has he taken to establish the reasons for this important policy matter not being passed on to the Government; and what measures has he implemented to ensure that this sort of thing does not happen again? 
-The Gold Coast Liberal Party cocktail circuit is a scene of fluctuating fortunes and divided loyalties or dividend loyalties; I am not sure which it is. Take the case of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and one of his constituents, Gold Coast builder and land speculator,  Mr Ron  McMaster. It seems that while  Mr Robinson  was telling the Melbourne 

 Herald on 9 May that he knew McMaster well - 
While  Mr Robinson  was telling the Melbourne  Herald:  'I know McMaster well. I have met him over the years and he is a man who enjoys a good reputation', his good friend  Mr McMaster  was telling the Gold Coast  Bulletin:  'I've met Eric Robinson at the opening of buildings. I've been to cocktail parties at his home. But that was at Liberal Party functions with big crowds'. He said on 6 May that he regarded  Mr Robinson  as an acquaintance rather than a friend. Why is  Mr McMaster  trying to ditch his old friend? After all, when  Mr McMaster  wanted a quick profit- initially $110,000 and finally $40,000-on a land sale to the Australian Postal Commission, to whom did he turn for help? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  To whom did he turn for help in relation to a land sale to Australia Post? He turned to his friend, the Minister responsible, his local member. What help did he get from his friend? According to the reply given on 1 1 May by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  the Postal Commission discovered 7 1/2 weeks after deciding to buy a block of land at Bundall from Watkins Ltd that it had been beaten to it by Ron McMaster. When the Commission decided to buy from McMaster, the deal was signed, sealed and delivered in four weeks- half the time. Successful negotiations between the Postal Commission and McMaster began less then three days after McMaster and the Minister discussed the land. What did the Minister tell his friend? 
House, and it should be the subject of appropriate notice. 
-I am referring to the substance of a reply given by the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I resume my remarks. What did the Minister tell his friend? According to the present Minister, he advised him to reduce his price to secure the sale. After all, McMaster, who did not even own the land, wanted a guaranteed profit of $ 1 10,000 before he would take up his option - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been quoting from a reply that the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications has circulated to honourable members. I have a copy of it here. What we are bringing to the attention of honourable members is just what is taking place as regards a Minister, his Department and the sale of land involving substantial profits. What is the Government afraid of? Of course it is afraid. It is a crooked corrupt government and honourable members opposite know it. The facts are set out in the reply from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It points out that McMaster, who did not even own the land, wanted a guaranteed profit of $1 10,000 before he would take up his option to buy for $240,000. 
That the honourable member for Newcastle be granted an extension of time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! I apologise to the House for the confusion. The position is that the honourable member for Newcastle was speaking beyond the time allotted to him. He is not permitted to speak for a second time in the adjournment debate. At that moment the motion for an extension of time was not in order. I call the honourable member for McMillan. 

-by leave- In rising to speak to the motion on the tabling of this report by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  I should like to be associated at the commencement of my remarks with his remarks made at the conclusion of his speech thanking the members of the Standing Committee on Road Safety secretariat and advisers for the work that they put in in assisting the Committee in the preparation of the report and in compiling the submissions and evidence which were brought to the attention of the Committee. I particularly mention the standard of the submissions and the interest displayed by the people who prepared those submissions. After all, it is of no use setting up committees unless the people who are expert and interested in the field into which the Committee is inquiring are prepared to give their time and to work in preparing submissions. Unless they were prepared to do that the whole inquiry would fall down and we would be left to our own resources. I think that at all times we should express our appreciation to the people who draft these submissions and for the work that they put into them because, in the main, in respect of all of these committees they are dedicated people who have a particular interest in what they are doing. 
The point I want to deal with as far as the report is concerned is that once again this report, together with all the other reports that this Committee has brought down, draws attention to the tragedy- and I emphasise this point- which has resulted from the Government's dismantling the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Today  that Authority's first report was finally tabled in this House. It is only a very minor report because the Authority was functional for only a very short time. I am concerned that although the Authority was in existence from 1 May 1975 to 9 June 1976 it has taken the Minister almost two years to table the report in this place. I would like the Minister to give me some explanation at some future time as to why it took so long to bring to the attention of this House the fact that that Authority was under way. I take it that the Government dismantled the Road Safety and Standards Authority as an economy measure which saved it the magnificent sum of $ 1m. The total cost of setting up the Authority was approximately $10m and the estimated annual cost was about $ 1 m, which is about one-fortieth of what it will cost the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to buy two Boeing 727 aircraft. It is strange to see the priorities of this Government as to where money should be expended. On the one hand it can spend money on luxury aircraft for the Prime Minister and his Ministers, but on the other hand it could do something of credit, value and assistance for the community. I will deal later in my speech with the number of people who are killed each year in the never ending war that is taking place on Australian roads and roads throughout the world. 
I would like to refer to the substitution of the mythical Office of Road Safety within the Department of Transport. One can appreciate the benefits that can flow from such an office within the Department of Transport. However, this office is subservient to the wishes of the Minister and the Department as a whole. Whilst I have great regard for the integrity of the men within the Department and their interest in road safety, they are still governed by government policy and by what the Minister decides the Department will do. Just imagine what the result would have been if one had tried to suppress or gag two of the commissioners of the Road Safety and Standards Authority. I will not deal with  Mr Frank  Yeend, who I consider was a first-class  chairman  of the Authority. One of the commissioners was the then Alderman Clem Jones, a former lord mayor of Brisbane. Fancy anyone thinking he could suppress Clem Jones from telling the truth and giving the facts of what was happening as far as road safety was concerned. The other commissioner was Professor Cummings, a man who has a great interest in road safety and who is a recognised authority on this subject in Australia. Those two men no longer are able to sit on the Road Safety and Standards Authority and help to make recommendations to the Government. 
I now wish to refer to a committee set up not by the Labor Government but by the Liberal Government to inquire into road safety. This Committee, which was made up of experts on road safety and on the motor industry as a whole, brought down a first class report in the dying days of the McMahon Government. I read that report as did other members of the Labor Government and we were only too happy to implement its recommendations. I always remember what  Mr Justice  Meares, the  Chairman  of that Committee, said when I indicated to him what our Government's intention was. He said: The difference between your Government and the former Government was that they could have done something about it but did not whereas your Government which could have done something did in fact do something'. I think this is something that always has to be borne in mind. What is the use of setting up inquiries if the government of the day does not do something about the recommendations that are made? What is the use of bringing experts together to advise government if their advice is ignored? That is what has happened as far as the Road Safety and Standards Authority is concerned. The Authority made a first-class report which was ignored completely by this Government. The Authority has been dismantled in order to save a paltry $ lm a year. The Authority, through its recommendations, could have done something to save lives. It could have saved people from being maimed or confined to wheelchairs for the rest of their lives as invalid pensioners. Yet the Government does not worry about spending millions of dollars when it seeks to buy comfortable VIP aircraft for the Prime Minister. 
I now wish to refer to the 1976-77 annual report of the Department of Transport which indicates the number of people being killed on the roads. So that honourable members can read the figures I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  table 2 and table 3 contained on page 18 of this report. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="109131197806013_42_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197806013_42_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I have added the preliminary figures for 1 977. They are from the Parliamentary Library and are authentic. Once again, the figures show that over the last ten years the figure for road deaths has more or less consolidated at around 3,500 a year. The figure for 1977 was 3,572 as against the figure in 1976 of 3,583. There has been substantial increase in the number of people injured in road accidents. The figure for 1977 was 91,635 as against a figure of 87,808 the year before. It is interesting to add up the figures to see the number of people who have been killed on roads. Since 1967 35,794 people have been killed on the roads and 898,062 have been injured in road accidentsthese are pedestrians, people travelling in cars, on motor bikes and motor cycles. We realise how important the Committee on Road Safety is and what an important authority the Road Safety and Standards Authority would have been. 
The other matter I want to deal with- I do not want to take up too much time- is the heavy vehicle safety report of the Road Safety Committee that was tabled in this House in April 1 977. That report contained 28 major recommendations. I was not a member of the Committee which sat during the term of the Labor Government. At this point of time there is no visible evidence of any action of major consequence taking place as far as the recommendations of that Committee are concerned. I am concerned that not only are recommendations of committees such as the committee of experts basically ignored by this Government but also there is not sufficient activity in relation to the recommendations of standing committees and select committees of this place. What is the use of members of committees sitting and taking evidence if the Government or the Minister does not take notice of the recommendations? If the Government is not going to take notice of the recommendations it could save taxpayers' money because the committees cost money to operate. 
I come back to the present report which once again highlights the variety of State traffic rules and regulations and the need for uniformity. The Australian Transport Advisory Council at which State and Federal Ministers for Transport meet drew up a traffic code some years ago. The best that one can say is that the code is being honoured in the breach rather than in its observance. Time and again, as our Committee goes around the States taking evidence, we find clear evidence of the conflict and difference between traffic rules and regulations. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  drew attention to the need for a uniform code for traffic so that uniform statistics can be kept and so that we do not get into a situation where one State compiles statistics on people who are 2 1 and another State on people who are 23 and this sort of thing. There is a great need for the States to get together with the Commonwealth to observe this traffic code. The Federal Government may have to provide some finance to ensure that this traffic code is implemented and adopted by the various States. To me this would be sensible expenditure by the Government because I believe that in the long run it could have the effect of reducing the number of accidents. I recall some time ago that the Committee at one of its first hearings when it was formed back in 1972-1 was then a foundation member of the committee- heard evidence from Australian Capital Territory authorities to the effect that people were involved in accidents in the Australian Capital Territory because the traffic rules for Canberra were different from those in New South Wales, Victoria or any of the other States for that matter. So there is clear evidence that a uniform traffic code would save lives and save people from injury. I call on the Minister to do something positive even if it means the Federal Government has to provide finance. 
I do not propose to go through all the recommendations made by the Committee. However, there are a number which I consider to be of importance. One is the question of standards for motor bikes. Admittedly, most of the motor bikes in Australia today are imported. There are varying standards of construction. The various authorities in Australia that are responsible for the Australian Design Rules for motor bikes should be requiring manufacturers to build into motor bikes all the best standards that are applicable overseas. Do not let us get any idea that the manufacturer does not build for the market. Australia is a substantial market for the motor bike manufacturer. Therefore if the Commonwealth Minister for Transport were to direct the people that are responsible for putting together the ADRs that he wanted the maximum safety built into motor bikes, then believe you me the motor bike manufacturers would heed that requirement. 
Another method of requiring manufacturers to build safety into their motor bikes would be to provide that unless those bikes met the requirements laid down here in Australia they would not be permitted to be imported and certainly would not be registered. I consider this is a most important recommendation, and I hope that the Minister will do something about it. He can. I hope he will. 
On the question of braking and training, an important matter that was brought to our attention during the inquiry was the question of brakes. There are ADRs covering braking. What is the requirement? One of the things that we found out was the number of motor cycle riders who are afraid of their front wheel brakes. We even had representatives of the motor cycle sections of the various State police forces who said they never used them. There is clear evidence from people who are expert and experienced in handling front wheel braking that that is the best form of braking in all circumstances as far as motor cycles are concerned. Yet not more than about 10 per cent, if that, of the motor cycle riders today are game to use their front wheel brakes because they have the impression that if they use their front wheel brake they will finish up over the handlebars, when in actual fact that is not the position. 
For that reason alone I consider that there are justifiable grounds for requiring motor cyclists, when getting their licence, to demonstrate their capacity and ability to use front wheel braking. This Wil not cost anyone any money. That is the thing that one always runs into when dealing with the matter of safety. As soon as one starts to talk about safety, improvements to vehicles, improvements to motor bikes or whatever it might be, one immediately gets a reaction against it: How much is it going to cost? Requiring people to demonstrate their ability to use their front wheel braking system does not cost anything, but I believe that in the long term it can save lives and can save injury to people. 
A very important recommendation of the Committee is the last one, and that deals with the question of mopeds. A moped is a slow, low speed vehicle. The Committee recommended that the licensing of riders be continued and not abandoned and that the minimum age for a licence be reduced to one year below the age at which a person can get a motor bike licence. Young people, particularly those under 2 1 years of age, have a shocking record of accidents on motor cycles. This is an excellent opportunity to train them on a low speed vehicle rather than on a high speed vehicle. They often want to ride all sorts of powerful bikes. I think it is an excellent opportunity to do something about it. 
Another thing that struck me in this inquiry, as I have found in most of these road safety inquiries, was the resistance and reaction of people to compulsion. The reaction against helmets has been overcome. It is now compulsory to wear helmets, but there was a very strong reaction against that in the early stages. Everyone agrees that if riders can be persuaded to ride their bikes with their headlights on and to wear conspicuous clothing other motorists on the road will be able to see them and in this way probably avoid accidents. Yet when one talks about it being compulsory for them to put their headlight on, or that when they turn on the ignition the headlight automatically comes on, one gets a very strong reaction against it. I hope that all governments, including the State governments, which are mainly responsible for this matter, ignore this opposition and get on with the job and require it to be done. 
The other thing that is important to keep in mind is alcohol. On this basis I look forward to the next inquiry, namely driver behaviour, and I hope one of the first things will be the effect of drugs and alcohol on people. The annual report of the Department of Transport, at page 1 19 - without quoting it- refers to the fact that more than 50 per cent of all accidents involve alcohol. If that is the position, when are we really going to do something about it? Certainly there is the breathalyzer, but unless the legislation is enforced it is not worth the paper that it is written on. 
I strongly support those people who have advocated random testing. I am a wowser, but I do not mind anyone having a drink. I do not mind anyone driving when he is full of booze, so long as he kills himself and not other people on the road. That is my reaction to it. No one has a licence to drink as much as he likes and kill his fellow man. For that reason it is up to the police forces of this country to be authorised and to be instructed to carry out random testing, to make sure that people who are on the road are not in a condition whereby they can kill their fellow man. It is up to the police to carry out that sort of surveillance. What would be wrong with the police being around or adjacent to hotels and clubs at the time when accidents peak? Look at the number of deaths that take place around the 6 o'clock period. 
Here is an opportunity to help people who need help and to protect people from those who need help. So I strongly support random testing, because I believe it is one way of compelling people- if they will not do it voluntarily- to stop drinking and driving which kills people. In conclusion, I say that I look forward to the Committee's findings of the next inquiry, which  I  think will be an excellent one, on driver behaviour. I thank the House. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Did he say two weeks ago that if there were a Budget leak involving the prospect of someone making a profit he would apply the Westminster convention requiring the resignation of the Treasurer? Was accurate information about many new Budget policies published well before the Budget was presented to Parliament? Did some of this information facilitate tax avoidance and the making of speculative profit? What action will the Prime Minister be taking to restore the integrity of the office of Treasurer? Will a judicial inquiry be established, as occurred in Britain in 1936 in similar circumstances? Has consideration been given to asking the Treasurer for his resignation? 
-I ask the Minister for Defence whether reports are correct that Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd is the only Australian shipyard to have received tender documents for building a replacement for HMAS  Supply.  As a Minister in a Government allegedly obsessed with competition and prices being determined in the market place, can he advise me why the State Dockyard in Newcastle and any other interested Australian shipyard has not been given the opportunity of tendering for this vessel so as to ensure that the price finally accepted is truly a competitive one? 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege. I was astounded to read in the  Sun-Herald  of last Sunday an article which was written by  Mr Neil  O'Reilly concerning the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  I will read the article or as much of it as you would like read. It states: 
Disturbing allegations concerning a photocopied proof of Hansard have been dubbed the 'Greengate affair' in top circles around Parliament House. 
The incident- involving the outspoken Tasmanian Liberal MP  Mr Bruce  Goodluck- is regarded by many as possible intimidation to stop backbenchers criticising the Budget. 

 Mr Goodluck claims that a Hansard proof of a speech he had made- known as a 'green'- was removed from his desk and photocopied without his permission. 

 Mr Goodluck was away giving a television interview at the time. 
Later, copies of the transcript of the television interview were sent to all Liberal MPs. 

 Mr Goodluck has been a critic of some Budget proposals, and on Thursday he abstained from voting on the legislation which changed the payment of cost-of-living adjustments to pensioners from twice a year to once a year. 
It was this measure that  Mr Goodluck  had criticised in his speech on September 28, the night he gave the television interview. 

 Mr Goodluck revealed this week that he had made the speech late in the afternoon and had then gone to a television studio to be interviewed. 
Later, somebody had told him that his' greens ' - 
We all know what 'greens' means-  had been removed while he was away. 
He said he had been told the name of the person who had removed them, but could not reveal it because he could not prove it. 
Later, he had asked somebody else whether the 'greens' had been removed. 
The member had blustered at first, but had then waved a photocopy of his speech at him and criticised him for attacking the Government. 

 Mr Goodluck said that last week Liberal MPs had received a copy of the transcript of his television interview through the mail. 
He said he believed that some people were trying to deter him from publicly criticising the Government. 
I am very annoyed at some of the occurrences over the last week', he added. 
On Thursday night, three colleagues joined him in not voting for the pension legislation. 
Some Senators are threatening to do the same thing when the legislation is debated in their chamber. 
Some Government MPs feel strongly about rebels like  Mr Goodluck,  and feel they are trying to have 'the best of both worlds. ' 
They say that out of loyalty to the Government they should support measures with which they privately disagree and they have to bear the public hostility. 
However, there is also a strong group who believe in the right of Liberal MPs to criticise the Government publicly without risking party discipline. 

 Mr Speaker, what concerns me are statements such as the one that has been made by the honourable member that someone in this place entered his room and interfered with his private papers. We all know that if an honourable member wants a copy of a Minister's reply, he has to get permission. Before anyone can touch any of our 'greens' at any time, he has to get our permission. I am concerned that this sort of thing can happen. We saw a situation last week wherein the Government Whip endeavoured to interfere with an honourable member who wanted to leave the chamber. From my point of view,  Mr Speaker  - 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Why was it necessary for an enforcement officer of the Department of Transport and Commonwealth Police to visit the offices of ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd on a Saturday morning when ACTU Jetset had made no secret of its operations and when other more normal and responsible avenues of obtaining information are readily available? What persons associated with ACTU Jetset were present when the raid took place? What information and papers were obtained as result of this raid? 
I welcome the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  back to the Committee. I hear that he had a very bad session tonight on television with a fellow by the name of Hawke. We welcome him back and trust that he is still in one piece. I would like to raise a point of procedure concerning discussions on the various departmental estimates now that this House has moved into the legislation committee era. Over the years we have seen the way time has been restricted in discussions on departmental estimates. Almost year by year it has been contracted until today the situation is almost a farce whereby we have only 10 minutes each in which to make a contribution. Each of us may pick out some particular hobby-horse, speak to it and that is the finish of it. So far in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Transport there have been two speakers, one from each side, and they have both dealt with a different subject. I am the third  speaker,  and the subject with which I wish to deal is different again. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I think you will find that this will be the procedure. I strongly suggest that the Government consider referring estimates to committees comprising members who are really interested in a particular subject who can sit around a table and question the Minister and departmental officers about various aspects of the Estimates. I think that is a new stage that has to be reached in the consideration of Estimates. The practice of nine members, five from one side and four from the other, speaking for 10 minutes each on the estimates of a department has become a farce. 
What I wish to bring forward tonight is the matter of shipping. This country, through the Australian National Line and private shipping lines, has moved into most areas of international shipping. Australia is represented in most of the freight lines engaged in container shipping. ANL has the wherewithal to move into the bulk trade with two 120,000 tonne and two 140,000 tonne bulk ships. The only area not covered is the transport of Australia's imports of crude oil. When the Australian Labor Party was in government it had reached an advanced stage in planning to set up a fleet of 60,000 to 70,000-tonne tankers to carry 40 per cent of our total crude oil imports. Unfortunately, when the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  became Minister for Transport, one of the first decisions he took was to cancel that policy of transporting 40 per cent of our crude oil imports in Australian tankers. I do not think I should allow this to be forgotten with no action being taken on it. 
I raise the matter again tonight because I believe an excellent case can be made for the Government to give encouragement and the all clear to Australian shippers to get on with it. I know that ANL, R. W. Miller and Co. Pty Ltd and Howard Smith Industries Pty Ltd are all interested in going into the international tanker trade. The Minister, when he was in opposition and when he became the Minister again, was critical of the suggestion that Australia should have its own tankers. He drew attention to the great cost that would be imposed on the Australian transport industry as a whole. The Budget contained an announcement by the Government that it would move immediately to import parity levels for crude oil. It was forecast by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that this would represent an increase in the cost of fuel of 3.5c a litre. I believe that since the Budget was presented the increase has been 3c a litre and that another 0.5c is due to be added in a very short time. So the increase of 3.5c a litre forecast by the Minister will be achieved before very long. 
What would be the cost of using Australian tankers to import crude oil? On very reliable information I believe that the shipping industry has presented a case to the Minister which shows that Australian tankers are capable of carrying crude oil to Australia at an additional cost of 0.148c a litre. This Government is not prepared to agree to Australian tankers. I will develop a case which will show that it is possible for the Government to recover the whole of that cost by way of taxation, et cetera. The Government has made a policy decision which has imposed upon the motorist and the community as a whole an extra fuel cost of 3.5c a litre. Yet it is not prepared to agree to Australian companies, which are most anxious to move into the overseas trade, carrying crude oil at an increased cost which I believe I should repeat and repeat. It is such a minimal amount that it should be brought to the attention of the outside public. The additional cost would be 0. 1 48c a litre. 
As I said, I can develop a case that would show that the additional operating cost for each 60,000 to 70,000-tonne tanker under Australian flag conditions would be between $lm and $1.5m a year. Personal income tax contributions by the Australian crews would give the Government revenue of about $500,000 a year. Contributions in company profit tax would be about $400,000 a year. The State would get in payroll tax about $70,000. So approximately $970,000 would flow back into the Australian economy if Australian crews were manning Australian ships. 
I therefore ask the Government to reconsider its decision. I believe it is important at this stage that Australia make a decision to move into the tanker trade. When the Labor Government was looking at the establishment of an Australian tanker fleet, 60,000 to 70,000-tonne tankers cost approximately $18m each. The same ships today, one to two years old, can be brought on world markets for between $8m and $12m. This is the time to buy. Average freight rate assessments at the moment are at rock bottom. The price of overseas tankers on the open market is ridiculously low. I am not saying that we should build tankers in Australian shipyards at this stage, even though I would like to see that. If these tankers are bought now and freight rates start to move up- there is nobody to say they will not move up- Australian companies such as R. W. Miller, Howard Smith, Ampol Australia Ltd and ANL will be in a much more favourable position to consolidate and retain at a lower level the freight rates on crude oil imports to this country. If they are given permission to buy tankers on the present market they will buy at the right price. They will have to go to the Prices Justification Tribunal, which I hope will still be in existence, to justify any increase in freight rates based on the capital investment. Now is the time to establish our own tanker fleet. Everyone in the shipping industry will tell the Government, as I know spokesmen for the industry have told the Minister on previous occasions, that this is the time. 
The trade unions are co-operating with the ship owners. Agreement has been reached between the trade unions and the shipping industry. The trade union movement will accept the manning of Australian ships by Australian crews on conditions comparable to those on ships of other developed countries. There will not be overmanning as there has been in the past. The manning will be similar to that on the ships of other developed countries. I believe the ship owners have been told that if they buy ships the Australian unions will man those ships under conditions applicable on the ships of other countries. Australian ships will have reasonable manning. It will be possible to buy ships at a reasonable price which will guarantee fair and reasonable shipping rates. 
What must be borne in mind is that every major country in the world today has a requirement concerning the shipment of crude oU imports. For instance, France requires 50 per cent of its crude to be imported in French ships. Other countries have their own national shipping lines carrying a substantial percentage of their crude imports. All we need is that this Government pick up the policies that were in existence under the former Labor Government, which had reached an advanced stage in introducing Australia 's own tanker fleet. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave- I join with other members of the Select Committee on Tourism in expressing my appreciation and congratulations to the two men who have occupied the position of chairman of that Committee for the work that they put into it. They were both good chairmen, in my opinion. Likewise, I express my appreciation to the Deputy Chairman for the amount of work that he also put into the Committee. He has had vast experience in this field, due to the fact that he was Minister for Tourism in the Labor Government. Last but not least, of course, I express appreciation for the work performed by the staff. They were always helpful in assisting members of the Committee to research information when it was required. 
I would like to deal with several recommendations of the Committee's report. First of all, I deal with the recommendation concerning hours of work, penalty rates and so on in the tourist industry. From my point of view, it is not the responsibility of this Parliament or of any of its committees to make decisions apropos these items. The tourist industry has an organisation and its members, either directly or indirectly, are all parties to awards that cover the labour they employ. That avenue is open to them. They should exercise their rights in the courts if they consider that the hours of labour, rates of pay and conditions in general are a disadvantage to their industry. The place to test these issues is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and not a committee such as the Select Committee on Tourism. So much for that recommendation. The Committee placed a lot of emphasis on it, but in my opinion, did nothing about it in the place that counted. 
Tourism in Australia is a matter on which, I believe, the government of the day has to determine its priorities. If it is desirous of using a particular national advantage to expand a district then it should be the prerogative of the Government to exercise its power over Treasury to assist the industries, the groups and the committees in particular areas that they want to develop. I have listened to much talk about the cost of transport in Australia. But when I compare it with the cost of transport overseas, I get a different result to that which has been referred to by honourable members here today. I am not talking about the cost of travelling overseas but of internal transport costs. If we look at Australian aviation costs and compare the cost of flying between cities in Australia with the same sort of travel overseas- in Europe, for example- we find that a lot more is paid for inferior services overseas. The same can be said about rail transport. Sure, there may be a better system of rail transport in Europe than there is in Australia but one certainly has to pay more for it. 
As the report stated, so far as road transport is concerned, the family car will be the main mode of transport. We accept that as a fact. Why does the industry not get out and use the advantages that it has with transport costs. It should get out, use the advantages and advertise them. When one compares the price of fuel in Australia with the price of fuel in Europe, one finds that Australia has a great advantage. These are the issues that the tourist industry should be pushing instead of whinging and moaning about the cost of transport. What I am concerned about is that major airport developments could take place in cities. However, economic evaluations of such projects would show that they are just not on. If the Government proceeds with these airport developments which people in particular cities and States desire, then the Government should accept the responsibility and not expect the rest of the transport industry in Australia to carry the cost of building those additional airports. Airports cost money and someone has to pay for them. 
What I am saying is this: The Government should determine its priorities. It should decide whether it wants to develop a particular locality. If it does; it should put the money into that particular project and not expect the industry as a whole to carry the burden. I do not want to spell out specific airport projects. I am talking about them in general because there has been a lot of airy fairy talk in this place and in other places about where international airports should be built and what international air routes should be provided. Just remember one thing: The more these big aircraft put down and the more places they call at, the more it will cost and the more that will have to be charged in fares. I think these aspects need to be taken into consideration. 
In the whole area of transport there is a great need in Australia for the establishment of an interstate commission. It was unfortunate that a certain event occurred on 11 November 1975 when the then shadow Minister agreed to the setting up of an interstate commission. I was then Minister for Transport. The then Oppositionthe now Government- agreed that included in the responsibilities of an interstate commission would be an evaluation of all these projects and ideas that people have. It would have determined the value of transport, what charges should be made and what rates should be imposed. In conjunction with the tourist industry, there is a need for an interstate commission to evaluate all these sorts of projects so that the government of the day can determine its priorities and decide what it wants to develop. 
During the Committee's inquiry we discussed an airport departure tax. I am sorry to say that this Government has introduced an airport departure tax which will be used for one purpose only- that is, for revenue raising. All of the revenue from the departure tax will go into the Treasury. It will just be another tax whereas the Committee said- I have no objection to the Committee's recommendation- that the proceeds of an airport tax should be used to develop and expand the tourist industry. In my opinion that was a worthwhile recommendation. The industry was making a positive contribution but that contribution now has been cut off and this tax is just another source of revenue. I think the Government has to give serious consideration to the Committee's recommendation and should put the Committee's recommendation into effect instead of saying- I am sorry that I was overseas when that particular Bill came before the House so I could not debate it- that the Select Committee on Tourism has made this recommendation. Of course the Committee made that recommendation but not for the purpose for which the Government has used it; as a source of revenue. 
We have an understanding that we will deal with these matters briefly. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the question of accommodation. The industry complained continuously to the Committee about accommodation. The industry should get out and sell the fact that good accommodation is cheap in Australia. If one compares Australian accommodation costs with accommodation costs overseas, one finds that we have very cheap, good accommodation in Australia. 
-It is very good, cheap accommodation. I think that in his contribution the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said that when one compares the cost of accommodation with Asian accommodation one wonders how the heck they determine their prices. I agree with him. Recently, as a member of a parliamentary delegation overseas, I paid up to $50 a day for accommodation. For similar accommodation in Australia one would not expect to pay any more than about $ 1 5 a day. So the industry should get out and sell these facts because they are a means of popularising Australian tourism, of popularising visits to 
Australia. I conclude my remarks by saying that I believe that basically this is a good report. The Committee has done a lot of work on it. In particular, the two chairmen and the Deputy Chairman have put a heck of a lot of work into it and a lot of their experience has been written into it. 
-The Bill before the House, the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) 1978, through which the Australian Government will guarantee the borrowing by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd of $US1 1.12m for the purchase of a new 727-200 series aircraft, will put the two airlines on an equal footing with an equal number of front-line aircraft, the 727-200 series. Before starting to deal with the Bill I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the discourtesy once again of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in walking out of the House and leaving a junior Minister in charge of the debate. 
-Not two. You were just packing up to leave. The Minister for 
Transport had no regard or consideration whatsoever, either for his own colleague the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  who has just resumed his seat, or any other  speaker  in the chamber. It is typical of this arrogant Minister over the period of this Parliament and the previous Parliament. He is renowned for his arrogance. He has displayed it once again tonight. In fact, this Bill should have been brought on for debate last Thursday night. It was not, because the Minister had left town. He had packed up and left Canberra. He was not in Canberra last Thursday night. Once again that brings us back to the situation of the arrogance of the Minister for Transport. 
The Minister's speech on this Bill and the Bill itself are remarkable for what they do not tell us, the information they do not convey to this Parliament. What is the rate of interest? There is no indication of that. It is impossible to find out what the rate of interest is. It is a top secret. That information is not made available to the Parliament. We do not know whether it is borrowing at 8 per cent, 10 per cent or 20 per cent; but you can guarantee anything you like that it is not the latter, because this Government is a fairly favoured borrower. There is no information, there is no real explanation given in the Minister's speechand it was a very minor, short speech- as to the reasons why a 727-200 series aircraft is being purchased. Why have the two domestic airlines not moved into the wide-bodied aircraft era? Every airline in the world has moved into widebodied aircraft except the two major trunk route domestic airline companies in Australia. Pressure was applied to these companies to get this sort of aircraft as far back as 1974. Ansett was the bugbear- I almost used another expression- on that occasion. He was the one who was opposed to that proposal. 
I repeat my earlier comment that there is very little information in the Bill. It is remarkable how this Government gets away without informing honourable members of the full details. It is interesting to note that Trans-Australian Airlines has elected to finance its purchase from its own internal sources. Whilst the Opposition is not opposing this Bill, I think that we may have been a little hasty in agreeing not to oppose it, a practice that we have followed with such legislation for years in this place. I am not blaming anybody for this. It has been recognised that it is better to borrow than to use your own money. In the main there has been a ready source of finance provided by the aircraft manufacturers at a cheap rate of interest. But in view of the fact that TAA has internal resources to finance its purchase we should have had a much closer look at why Ansett is not doing likewise. This legislation is another means of providing cheap money for the Ansett company. 
Let me deal with the rates of interest applicable on borrowings overseas. We know that the interest rate is not for publication. As far as the company is concerned, this is confidential information, and the Government will not release it; but you can bet anything you like that this money is being borrowed on the basis of the most favoured borrower. I will cite to the House varying interest rates to illustrate what is involved. I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  for giving me the opportunity to present this information, which is set out in a question on notice at page 796 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 24 August. In the answer to that question a table sets out the rates of interest on money borrowed by this Government over the last two years. I draw the attention of honourable members to this table, which shows that money borrowed in May from the United States at public issue was at 8.45 per cent and 9.125 per cent and that money borrowed from the Netherlands was at 7.625 per cent. The loans were for 5 years, 15 years and 10 years respectively. I do not want to waste time by going through the whole table. I merely draw the attention of honourable members to the rate of interest on the money that was borrowed. The fact that the Austraiian Government is guaranteeing Ansett 's loan means that Ansett is getting the most favoured borrower treatment. This means that Ansett will be able to borrow money at approximately those rates of interest I have already cited or at the most a half of one per cent in excess of those rates. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd 'News Review Sheet' dated October 1978 shows that that company- another favoured borrower- is borrowing money at 9.7 per cent for 6 years, 9.8 per cent for 10 years and 9.9 per cent for 15 years. 
We know that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd provides this Parliament with a statement of its airline activities, but the company operates as a total transport company covering the hire car business, hire purchase, buses, holiday hotels and motels- a chain of them right throughout the country. The hire car business has now been entered by TAA also. Ansett is a major transport operator. Although it provides a financial statement on its airline activities let me point out that it was only extreme pressure applied by the Opposition prior to 1972 that forced the then government to require Ansett to table such information. For years that information was confidential to the company and it did not have to make it public. 
This legislation gives the opportunity to Ansett to get cheap money. I have already cited the interest rates on Australian Government borrowings and BHP borrowings. Yet a hire purchase company in which Ansett Transport Industries has a very substantial investment, Associated Securities Ltd, is one of the risky hire purchase companies or finance companies. This company is advertising that it will borrow money over a four-year term at 1 1% per cent. If TAA can finance its aircraft purchases from internal sources why can Ansett not do the same? There is one simple reason. Because this Government is guaranteeing Ansett 's loan it is able to borrow money overseas at a much lower rate of interest than it would have to pay if it borrowed on the Austraiian market. I repeat that ASL is advertising that it will borrow money over four years at 1 1 % per cent and BHP is able to borrow over a period of six years at 9.7 per cent. Those figures illustrate the rates of interest Ansett Transport Industries would have to pay if it borrowed on the Australian market. It is important to bear in mind that this legislation is a form of providing Ansett with cheap money. 
Over the years Ansett has been able to use airline money. The airline industry has provided a ready flow of cash. The money is coming in all the time. It is a cash operation, there is very little credit. Because of the two-airline agreement Ansett is in a favourable position of being able to say to the people that if they want to travel they have to pay cash. So there has been a constant flow of money. When the Ansett Transport Industries television venture was not going so well the airline provided the cash flow to maintain liquidity. The same thing can be said about Ansett 's other activities. I welcome the Minister for Transport back into the chamber. Ansett has used its airline finance to maintain its associated interests. This legislation, as I said, is one method of providing this company with cheap money to the detriment of the aviation industry if I might say so, because one would think that in view of the availability of this cheap money a greater number of innovative cheap air fare structures would have been introduced. From my own personal experience in dealing with Ansett Transport Industries I found it to be a most difficult company to get interested in off-peak fares or any of the other forms of cheap air fares in which other countries have been engaging for some considerable time. Ansett has never been co-operative. It has never been helpful in providing a better transport system for air travellers throughout this country. 
Let me now turn to the profits of this company. One has to look at the whole of the company's activities, not just the aviation side of them. Over the last six years this company as a combined company has made quite substantial profits- in 1972-73, $6,310,000; in 1973-74, $6,838,000; in 1974-75, $8,219,000; in 1975-76, $14,411,000; in 1976-77, $17,270,000; and in 1977-78, $18,408,000. With that sort of capital flowing into the company, why does it have to go on to the overseas market to borrow money? The reason is that it can get cheap money and helps this Government to balance its overseas reserves by creating a capital inflow. 
As I said in my opening remarks, the Bill and the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport are remarkable in what they do not say. One of the things that concern me is that these two airlines are continuing to buy 727-200 series aircraft when the wide bodied jet is here to stay. Aircraft such as the Boeing, the Douglas, the Lockheed and the European Airbus, the A300, are much more economical to operate. They are not as noisy as the present breed of aircraft. To give some indication of the difference in the noise levels of the aircraft, the 727-200 series has a noise rating of 96 EPNdB- effective perceived noise level decibels, the L1011 has a rating of 94 EPNdB, the DC 10 has a rating of 94 EPNdB and the A300B has a rating of 92 EPNdB. This means that the A300B or the other two wide-bodied jets are much quieter aircraft than those of the Boeing 727-200 series. These noise levels should be borne in mind if view of the fact that Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide all have curfews. As far as people are concerned, the noise level is of major importance and for that reason alone this Government should be forcing the airlines into the wide-bodied jet era. 
A report which is due to be tabled shortly, the Modern Airport Needs of Sydney report, deals with the congestion that exists at Sydney airport. It is time the Government forced the airlines into the purchase of wide-bodied jets, which will reduce the congestion. The wide-bodied jets are capable of carrying almost twice as many passengers as the 727-200 series aircraft which would reduce the number of aircraft operating into and out of that airport as well as reducing the noise level which causes discomfort to the people who live around Sydney airport and other airports. 
-I know that and the Labor Government should still be in office. The purchase of wide-bodied aircraft would also have the effect of providing cheaper fares because these aircraft are more economical to operate. The Government talks about reducing air fares and the use of these aircraft is one way actually to put that into operation. The Government should also cut out the stupid practice of parallel scheduling, of aircraft taking off at the same time to go to the same airport. The fact of the matter is that on many occasions those aircraft are operating at half capacity and one aircraft could actually do the job. The airlines are in a monopoly situation whereby they can do as they please. All they have to do is go to the Minister and show that their operations are not profitable or that they are not reaching the profit target that has been set by the Minister and they are then automatically given an increase in fares. There has been no real investigation of the operations of the airlines as to why they cannot operate at a much cheaper rate than they do at the present time. 
As far as Qantas Airways Ltd is concerned, I noted recently that it wanted to operate between Perth and the east coast. There is no reason why Qantas 's excess capacity should not be utilised. We need to look at the question of aviation travel in the context of the benefit to Australia as a whole and not simply in terms of the profitability of Qantas or the two domestic operators. The introduction of wide-bodied jets would provide cheaper fares as well as reduced noise levels and congestion around airports. It is a pity that Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Asutralia could not undertake some of the innovative fare programs that East- West Air.lines, for example, has introduced. I think it is time the Government gave East- West greater encouragement than it has had over previous years so that it may become more competitive with the two major trunk route operators. I have said previously that as far as I am concerned there is justification for having the two-airline policy, but if the two major airlines continue to restrict their activities and do not give a damn about cheaper fares it is time the Government let in a third operator, such as East- West. I have always found East- West to be a good airline which is prepared to look at the market and consider all sorts of ways and means to expand its share of the market and reduce fares for the people who want to travel. It comes back to the point that the Government must get on with the job instead of allowing the airlines to hide behind the twoairline agreement, which is a monstrous agreement and which is almost impossible to review. The Government that is in office at the time the agreement comes up for review has to give five years' notice of termination and requires the numbers in both Houses to do it. Unless the companies agree to it, it is almost impossible to amend the agreement. I feel that it is time the Government did something positive about this matter instead of allowing the companies to increase their fares time after time. In the last  2Vi  years there has been an increase in air fares of some 25.5 per cent. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-I would like the Minister for Transport in his reply- he has the right of reply if he wants to exercise it- to tell honourable members the rate of interest that Ansett Transport Industries will be paying on the money for which the Australian Government, the Australian people, are guarantor. I believe we are entitled to know and the people are entitled to know. There is no need to keep this information the close secret that it has been for so long. 
I also would like the Minister to indicate the reasons why Ansett Transport Industries decided to borrow this money. I would like him to tell us why it did not use its internal resources, why it has not used the profits it has made over the years, to purchase the aircraft, just as the Australian National Airlines Commission elected to use its financial resources rather than to go to the loan market. The Minister in his reply can give us the answers to these two questions. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns offset payments. The Government never gives an explanation as to what offset arrangement deal has been made when a decision has been taken to purchase an aircraft. This is something we are entitled to know. The Australian aircraft industry employs a considerable number of people who have never had real continuity of employment. They have led a hand-to-mouth kind of existence never knowing when the next job was coming. What is the answer? I believe, for example, that the European Airbus people are prepared to make very firm commitments in respect of the amount of offset payments that are available. I know that the Fokker organisation was prepared to make arrangements in respect of offset payments when the Department of Transport purchased F28 aircraft. I think we are entitled to have this information. 
I think we also are entitled to know when the two main trunk route operators intend operating wide-bodied jets. The Minister will be aware that wide-bodied jets are much cheaper to operate and they can be the means by which fares can be reduced more quickly than has been the case over recent years. These jets also provide a better service. Also, their use would help to reduce the congestion and noise level at major city airports. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bill before the House-the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1978- contains basically one provision. It provides for an increase of 15 per cent in air navigation charges during 1978-79. Legislation to amend the air navigation charges is brought down invariably each year as part of the Budget strategy of the government of the day. One of the elements which concerns me about the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is the conflict between his figures and the Budget figures on civil aviation. At page 2622 of  Hansard  the Minister said that expenditure on civil aviation in 1977-78 was $172m and that revenue was $85.9m, which represents a cost recovery rate of 49.7 per cent. That shows a deficit on the Minister's figures of $86. lm. I have examined the Budget figures and at page 104 of the 1978-79 Budget, the actual expenditure for 1977-78 is shown. 
I refer now to the actual figures which were available to him and his staff when the Minister's second reading speech was written. There should not be any conflict whether the figures were available. I refer again to page 104 of the 1978-79 Budget Speech. The actual expenditures in 1977-78 were: Administrative and operational services, $ 167.6m; buildings, works and equipment, $ 19.4m; air services subsidy, $0.8m; and other services, $2. 7m. The total actual expenditure was $ 190.5m compared with the Minister's total of $172m. On the revenue side, air navigation charges totalled $73.4m and other recoveries totalled $26. lm. Because of the limited time available to me tonight, I do not propose to list other expenditures such as airport rental and things of that type. The total amount recovered was $99.5m. 
It is fair and reasonable to add to that figure the customs and excise duties on aviation fuel which last year were $48. 3m if one takes the total maximum amount. Of course, quite a sound logical argument can be advanced that part of that $48. 3m could reasonably be paid into Consolidated Revenue because, for example, 66 per cent of road tax is paid into Consolidated Revenue. I think that that is a factor that has to be borne in mind when we go through the exercise of balancing income against expenditure in civil aviation to determine the degree of subsidy- the size of the deficit, if one likes to put it that wayand the cost recovery percentage. By adding the $48.3m, we have a total revenue of $ 147.8m representing a deficit of $42.9m or a cost recovery rate of $77.6m. 
The Minister once again is holding this Parliament in contempt and, typically, is being discourteous by not being present in the House when a piece of his legislation is before the House. I notice that members of his staff are in the House making notes of these figures. I would appreciate it if the Minister could come up with an answer why the Budget figures and the figures in his speech do not coincide. I read the Minister's second reading speech before I came into the House this evening. This afternoon I rang his office to inquire whether there had been any error in the speech and, if so, whether it had been corrected at some time. I had not seen such a correction. I alerted the Minister's staff to the position. I raised the question a moment or two ago concerning what percentage of aviation fuel tax should be paid into Consolidated Revenue. If we apply the same formula to aviation fuel tax as is applied to road tax, the deficit would then grow to $59. lm and the recovery rate would be 68.9 per cent. Whichever figure one takes is still far in excess of the figure quoted by the Minister in his second reading speech. 
What does the deficit of $42.9m-I am taking my figure, not the Minister's figure- represent? It represents a subsidy of slightly more than $3.20 to every person who flies in an aeroplane, either domestically or internationally. It represents quite a substantial subsidy on air travel. That brings me to the point whether it is a fair and reasonable subsidy. Is the deficit a fair and reasonable deficit? Is the Minister's cost recovery figure of 49 per cent or the Budget figure of 77.6 per cent fair and reasonable? People within the general aviation industry- the pilots, hostesses and LAMES, that is, the licensed aircraft maintenance engineers- have said to me: 'If it is good enough to subsidise other forms of transport, why cannot our form of transport be subsidised?' I think that is a fair and reasonable point of view to express. There is no reason why the airline traveller should have to pay a 100 per cent cost recovery whilst the road user does not pay the full 100 per cent. We cannot ascertain what the cost recovery is for road users. So far as public rail transport is concerned, I believe that the total deficit in this area is something akin to $600m a year. What does that represent by way of subsidy? What are the priorities of this Parliament, whether this Government or the next Labor government is in office? 
I come back to the point that I have been making for some considerable time, that is, that it is time that this country had an interstate commission that could examine these questions and come up with just what are the true costs of transport. A country the size of this one with a limited population of slightly in excess of 14 million people cannot afford the luxury of an inefficient transport system. We have to bring into operation the mode of transport that is the most economical, the one that can do the best job. In 1976 three ships were run by Australian Steamships Pty Ltd, a Sydney company that operated between Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle. The owners of that shipping line saw me when Labor was in government and said that unless the railways were prepared to increase their freights, they would have to take those three ships out of service. 
At a meeting of the Austraiian Transport Advisory Council in Adelaide in August 1975 all the railway commissioners who were present stated most emphatically that they were making a profit on their services. The Commonwealth Commissioner said that his railway was malting a profit of  22Vi  per cent on the operation between the east coast and the west coast. Since ASP pulled those three ships off the route and sold them overseas there has been an increase of about 50 per cent in freight rates between the east and the west coast because the basic competition had been removed; so much so that I believe shipping lines at present are looking at the possibility of reintroducing an east-west coast service once again by sea. 
We come back to the question of an interstate commission. That body should and would be free under the Bill that went through this place in late 1975 when, I am sorry to say, this Government did not proclaim the legislation even though I know from personal discussions with the present Minister when he was the shadow Minister for Transport that he agreed with it. In fact that Bill ceased to be the Labor Government's legislation; it became the then Opposition's legislation because it changed it around in the Senate to suit the then shadow Minister as to what he believed an interstate commission should comprise. I honestly believe that the present Minister would like to see an interstate commission operating so that the true costs of transport in the various modes can be correctly assessed and the most economic form of transport can be introduced. It is in this way that we would be able to determine the viability of the cost recovery program that was initiated by previous governments and maintained and extended by the Labor Government and even by this Government which wants 100 per cent cost recovery on the main trunk routes. That is more than the Labor Government was after. It was not pushing for 100 per cent cost recovery on the main traffic routes. This Government is doing so. 
I go back to the point: Is it fair and reasonable? I do not know the answer because I do not know what is the true cost of transporting freight and passengers by rail. Not only does the present Minister or any of his predecessors not know but also I am certain that the transport Ministers in the various State governments do not know. I believe it to be a fact that none of the railway commissioners know what it truly costs to carry a passenger or to transport freight. It is time that some authority was able to put a price on such services and determine whether State railways are overcharging or undercharging to the detriment of a more economical mode of transport. I gave the example of ASP's three ships being taken off the east-west operation. 
I believe that there is no opposition to the legislation but I honestly believe that something has to be done to determine what is a fair go. Are the road operators paying correct road taxes in the form of fuel tax and registration? What should they be paying? These people all complain that they are being over taxed. Nobody really knows what is the true cost of providing the road system and the structure that is necessary to carry the operators. I would be grateful if the Minister in his reply would answer those questions. Why is there a difference between his figures and the Budget figures? It is not minor; it is major. He says that there is a deficit of $86m. The figures given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  show a deficit of $42m on aviation operations. 
I would like to refer to a few other matters in the limited time that is available to me. One matter concerns the recent negotiations that have been taking place between this Government and its American counterpart with regard to the American airline, Continental Airlines Inc., being permitted to operate into this country. I am of the opinion that it should not be permitted into this country. Of course we simple mortals outside those conferences and machinations are never aware of what goes on behind the scenes. For example, when Airlines of America first operated into this country some years ago a part of the trade-off was that America would buy more Australian meat. If it was not to be on that basis, other restrictions would be imposed on Australian exports of meat and sugar to the United States of America. So the pay-off was that the Americans were granted permission for Airlines of America to operate into Australia. Is that sort of trade-off being made today with Continental Airlines? If it is not, why is it that the Carter Administration is so keen to get it admitted into the Australia-America operation? What is the pay-off in the United States of America? These are the questions which we do not know and we should know before decisions of this importance are taken. At present Qantas Airways Ltd operates seven Boeing 747 flights a week to the United States; Pan American Airways operates nine Boeing 747 flights a week as well as two freighter flights. I believe that Continental would want an additional four flights a week. That means that American airlines would have 13 services a week into Australia but the Australian operator would have only seven. Will that bring about a reduction in fares? My guess is that it will not. In support of that proposition, let me draw the attention of honourable members to a few matters contained in various reports that Qantas has published. On page 7 of its 1974-75 report it is stated: 
At the beginning of 1974-75, the Company viewed the over-capacity situation on the Southern Cross route with some concern. Therefore, despite withdrawal of American Airlines' flights between Australia and the United States from March 1974, and cessation of British Airways' Pacific services early in 1975- 
I do not have time to read the rest of it but it goes on to say that notwithstanding that fact, in that year which was a very good year as far as aviation was concerned, Qantas had only a 53 per cent seat factor on the Sydney-San Francisco service. That was a record year for jet services on that route. Yet in the same year the overall seat factor for Qantas was about 62 per cent. The same point was made in annual reports in 1973-74 and 1976-77 in which Qantas expressed concern at the over capacity that existed on the Southern Cross route. I know that prior to 1972 the seat factor was down to as low as 35 per cent and 36 per cent. That meant that two out of every three seats on the aeroplane were empty. 
Is that what we want to go back to? I believe that wc could have cheaper fares if the aircraft were filled. Fares cannot be reduced when the aeroplanes are carrying empty seats. It is bodies that pay; not empty seats. I would be disappointed if this Government has succumbed to the pressures of the American Government just to suit some behind-the-scene conniving and planning that has gone on in America to give Continental the right to operate into Australia. If the Americans want to pay off someone in America, let them do it in America, but not at our expense. As I said, I would be disappointed if this Government succumbs to that sort of pressure from the Americans and permits them to operate. If it does permit them to operate, let us keep the level of operation at the present level of nine to seven; let Continental Airlines take up some of the services operated by Pan Am. I think Pan Am will be squealing like hell if that happens. 
The other matter to which I would like to refer is the recent  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee report concerning Sydney airport and the Committee's proposal to restrict and almost eliminate general aviation and commuter operation services into that airport. I think this is a crazy idea. I feel that throughout Australia there has to be a changeover from some of the larger aircraft on less populous routes to smaller aircraft to give a frequency of service. In my own district at one stage we had one Fokker Friendship service a day each way- one service out of a morning and one service in of a night. Some time around 1972 a small operator started flying Cessna 402s. The result is that from then to the present time the number of services daily between Newcastle and Sydney has increased to 24 services each way operated by Masling Air Commuter Services Pty Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and Aeropelican Intercity Commuter Air Services Pty Ltd. All those services are carried out by small aircraft. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  drew attention to the situation in Queensland with regard to country services. I feel that people in those areas would be better off with a 10-seater aircraft as against a 36 or 40- seater aircraft. Therefore I strongly support the right of commuter operators to operate into Sydney, h would be suicide if those aircraft were forced to operate from Bankstown, Schofields, Camden or one of those out-of-town small airports in Sydney. The only way that the people of Newcastle, Wollongong and other commuter centres that are being serviced by these aircraft can get a decent transport system access to the main trunk route is through a commuter service operating through the main Sydney airport. It is all right for those people who live in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane to talk about the trunk routes. It is not all right for those people who live out of those centres. They want the right; they want access to the main trunk routes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Bill before the House is the Qantas Airway Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Amendment Bill, which contains a minor amendment to correct a technical fault in the original Act which received assent on 16 May this year. Before dealing with the Bill I would like to make a couple of comments in passing. I am very pleased to see the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  here tonight. It is indeed pleasing to see him sitting in on a debate on a transport Bill. On behalf of the Opposition I extend a welcome to the Minister and trust that we might get some answers out of him tonight. 
-He is second or third class. He is not even in the first class. He does not even warrant a class. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  bought into an issue some months back on the motor car industry. He moved a motion in this place and the egg is still hanging from his face. He should not ever forget his performance. He should put his head between his legs and get out of the road for ever more. We have just heard tonight from the honourable member for Kingston a performance on the great free enterprises of the Liberal Party. Yes, Qantas Airways Ltd is a socialised airline and I am very proud of the fact that it is. It is one of the best airlines in the world. The great free enterpriser from Kingston says that he wants to give the public servants the right to travel on any airline they choose. In the great free enterprise country of the United States of America public servants are not permitted to travel on any other airline when an American airline is available. It is not a question of whether it suits their travel arrangements. They fit in with the schedules of the United States airlines. That is the great free enterprise country, and that policy applies to travel by members of parliament. On any fare that has been financed by the American Administration, American airlines have to be used wherever they are available. People 's schedules are fitted to their times. 
I think the demand made by the honourable member for Shortland that Ministers, members and public servants should all be required to use Qantas whenever and wherever it operates is a reasonable one. If no Qantas flight operates to a particular destination, then of course they cannot use it. As far as Qantas revenue is concerned, it should be treated as export income. That is the way we should look at it. If we do not look at it in that light, all the money that is paid for flights out of Australia goes into other countries. The servicing of the aircraft and the operation of the aircraft have to be financed in some way. It is fair and reasonable to expect Australian Government employees and Australian Government members and Ministers to use their own airline so that at least the money is kept in this country. The honourable member for Kingston would not have enough sense or enough brains to work that out and understand what it is all about. All he can see is this great free enterprise Government against a socialised airline. 
Let us get back to the facts. What concerns me is the gutless conduct of this Government and the Minister over recent weeks in the negotiations with the American Government representatives on the entry into Australia of Continental Airlines Incorporated. We do not know the reasons the American Administration's decision to grant approval to Continental. We do not know what dishonesty and corruption are associated with it, but the American Government has certainly taken a strong line. In the case of American Airlines, which was given permission to operate into Australia some years ago, there was obvious Government and party influence involved. We do not know the facts. The chief representative of the American team said the other day that unless the Austraiian Government approved the entry into Australia of Continental, Qantas would not be permitted into the United States. Why did not the Minister have the courage to say: 'If that applies to Qantas, then neither will Pan Am be given permission to operate into Australia*? When someone comes here throwing his weight around, surely other people can apply the same measures to the American operator. I know that none of us would like to see a situation where no American airlines were operating the Pacific run into Australia or vice versa, but that negotiator came here throwing his weight around. I am sorry to say that this bombastic Minister copped what was coming to him. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Newcastle might like to withdraw that term. 
-I do not see anything objectionable about it. It is most descriptive of the Minister. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the thirtieth ordinary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Copies of the report are being reproduced and will be circulated to all honourable members. A limited number of copies will be placed in the Parliamentary Library and in the Table Office. 
-by leave- On behalf of the Opposition, I commend the Government for reporting to the Parliament its intentions in regard to recommendations made by select committees, such as those outlined in the speech just delivered by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I believe that the Government intends that the responsible Ministers respond to other reports presented to the Parliament. I believe it is a good innovation and it is one which I hope, and I underline that hope, will give honourable members collectively an opportunity at some time to debate at length in the Parliament the Government's decisions either to accept or to reject- mostly it rejects- committee recommendations. I have found from my experience from being associated with the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety since its formation that only on very rare occasions- they have been so rare that I cannot bring to mind any particular occasion- have committee members been political in the recommendations that they have made. In the vast majority of cases, the decisions of the Committee have been unanimous. I feel that giving honourable members an opportunity to comment on reports presented to the Parliament, as we are being given today, is a good innovation. 
One aspect of the Minister's speech which I regret is the way in which he has to a limited degree introduced politics into the debate. The Minister has given credit to himself but not to the Labor Government which was responsible for so many of the innovations that were introduced in relation to road safety. For example, the Minister mentioned only the amount that his Government has allocated to the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Program; he made no mention of the fact that it was the Labor Government in 1973 which made the first allocation to the MITERS Program and which introduced legislation for that purpose in 1973-74. I am pleased to note that the present Minister has not changed the legislation. He has maintained the existing legislation. The same situation applies to the research and investigation funds that were provided by the Labor Government. I am pleased that his Government has continued the good work that the Labor Government commenced. 
However, there is one area of regret. Very early in the life of the Government which was elected in 197S, it abandoned the Labor Government's Road Safety and Standards Authority. It revoked the legislation. Incidentally, it is quite interesting to note that the  Chairman  whom I as the then Minister appointed to the Road Safety and Standards Authority,  Mr Frank  Yeend, is now the head of the Office of Road Safety in the Minister's Department Obviously, the Authority was not abandoned on the score that the person whom I had appointed was unsuitable for the position that he held then since he is not considered unsuitable for the position he holds now. Therefore, I regret that the Minister has seen fit to fiddle with the Authority and to try to claim political credit for something that his Government did not do. 
In relation to the Office of Road Safety, it took the Government from March 1976 to December 1977 to get that Office under way. There was a great deal of talk about it being established. There was quite an amount of information available in the Department to help the Minister make a decision if he wanted to change the format of the road safety system, whether by establishing a road safety and standards authority or whether by burying it in the Department as an office of road safety as is the present situation. All the information in the world was available to allow the Minister to make an instantaneous decision. It took the Minister just on two years- one year and nine months, in fact- to make up his mind what to do and how to set up the Office of Road Safety. 
We set up the Road Safety and Standards Authority on the recommendations of an expert group, which was not set up by the Labor Government. It was set up by a former Minister for Transport. I believe that was the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who is under very strong questioning at the moment and in relation to whose business affairs we moved a censure motion this morning. That expert group he set up made a report to the Parliament in the middle of 1972. That report set out a number of recommendations. One of those recommendations was that a Road Safety and Standards Authority be set up. Another recommendation was that an allocation of funds be made to a road safety program which later became the 
MITERS Program. It made a recommendation that there be uniformity in the collection of statistics. 
The Labor Government set about implementing those recommendations. The present Minister for Transport was the Minister to whom that Committee reported. As I have said to him time and time again in this place, he could have done something about those recommendations as a member of the McMahon Government. That Government did nothing about the matter. It could have done so and did not. The Labor Government had the opportunity to do something and did so. We were the people who got on with the job of providing the funds for the setting up of a decent Road Safety and Standards Authority in this country. Unfortunately, this Government has abandoned that authority. 
I am also sorry to say that at a meeting of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety on Thursday of this week, our attention was drawn to the fact that it is the intention of the Australian Bureau of Statistics to reduce the volume of statistics that it compiles. The decision was taken to direct the  Chairman  to write to the Minister and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  asking that the present system of gathering information be retained. This Government does not have a good record in regard to road safety. It dithered prior to 1972. It could have done something, but it did nothing. It destroyed the Road Safety and Standards Authority and set up a less efficient organisation. Once again it is going to act contrary to the recommendations made by its own expert group. 
I regret the fact that the Minister has brought politics into the question of road safety. It is not a political issue. Road accidents kill Liberals, members of the Country Party and members of the Labor Party. They have no regard for a person or his political belief. Liberals are not immune to road accidents. I ask the Minister to keep politics out of it. Let him find the best method of reducing Australia's shocking road toll. Even on the Minister's own figures, Australia has a bad accident rate compared with the United States, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Australia's record in road safety is fifteenth or sixteenth on the list of the developed countries. 
There are a number of other things about which the Government should have done something. I always give full credit to the Victorian Liberal Government for having the courage and being the first Government, I believe in the world, to introduce the compulsory wearing of seat belts. This Government took a long while to catch up. I hope that before very long it will introduce random breath testing of drivers to ensure that people driving under the influence of alcohol will be detected. Those people are a menace. The evidence is quite clear. People under the influence of alcohol are incompetent drivers and cause accidents. I refer honourable members to the Minister's own statement today as to the effects of alcohol on drivers. It is time that he introduced the necessary legislation to permit the random breath testing in an endeavour to reduce the number of people killed. Alcohol is involved in SO per cent or more of fatal accidents. I hope he takes politics out of the matter and does something. 
There are a few items in the paper which the Minister tabled which I would like to refer. The Minister indicated that the Government does not agree with some of the recommendations and is seeking further information on others. The Government's attitude on a few of the recommendations concerns me. Recommendation 25 in Attachment B deals with heavy vehicle safety. It states: 
Materials used in furnishing buses be fireproof and of a material which does not produce toxic gases when subject to heat. 
The Minister said that there is insufficient evidence to justify further action in that regard. He is responsible for safety in aircraft. There is clear evidence that people are asphyxiated as a result of fires in aircraft because of the material inside the aircraft. The same thing could apply to heavy vehicles. The Minister also wants further information about the uniform inspection standard for omnibuses. The Government has reservations about the Committee's proposal and is awaiting further advice. All the Minister has to do is consider the number of tourist buses which have been involved in accidents. I turn his mind back to the Snowy Mountain fatality. A considerable number of old people were killed because of the malfunctioning of the braking system of thenbus. It was an interstate bus. The Australian Government is responsible for interstate transport. All the State Ministers for Transport were in total agreement with the Australian Government taking over responsibility for the testing and inspection of interstate buses. That agreement would not have been confined to testing and inspection. The States would have been prepared to pass the total responsibility to the Australian Government. The Commonwealth Government and State governments have differences of opinion from time to time, but on issues such as this I have always found the State 
Ministers to be most co-operative, helpful and desirous of doing the right thing. I hope that this Minister is prepared to do likewise. I now refer to attachment C. Paragraph 68 states: 
A requirement for licensing be a demonstration of the effective use of all brakes fitted to the motorcycle particularly the front brakes, and DOT develop advisory performance specifications for this test 
There is clear evidence that braking is important whether in motor cars, heavy vehicles, motor bikes or even the lowly push bikes. The Committee was unanimous that something needed to be done about this. I am disappointed in the Government's attitude. I know that other people want to speak on this matter and on others. There are a lot of other things on which I would like to comment, but having in mind the time of day I will reserve my comments for another occasion. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Have a  Mr and Mrs A.  Greig been granted permanent residence in Australia. If so, in which employment category. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) How many ships have been built overseas for the Australian (a) overseas and (b) coastal trade during each of the last 10 years. 
What was the (a) cost (b) tonnage (c) builder's name and country and (d) name of the Australian owner of each ship. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) How many aircraft (a) near misses and incidents and (b) accidents were reported during each of the last 10 years. 
What were the total hours flown by aircraft during each of the last 10 years. 
How many (a) airline, (b) general aviation and (c) private aircraft were licensed during each of the same years. 
How many pilots were licensed during each of the same years. 
How many persons were employed on (a) air traffic control and (b) flight services during the same years. 
-I draw the Treasurer's attention to a Press release dated - 
I wish to deal further with a matter that I raised by way of a question to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  during Question Time today, namely, the visit to Australia from 13 to 16 March of a mission from the secretariat of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development whose responsibility it is to discuss the state of the nation and the economy with the Treasury, other departments and also the Reserve Bank of Australia. I thank the Treasurer for his assurance that he will endeavour to arrange time for this mission to interview peak trade union organisations, interested representative groups of industry and commerce and spokesmen from the Opposition. All I hope is that he will make these arrangements long before the mission comes to Australia so that these people can be prepared to make submissions. So much for that side of my comments. 
I want to deal mainly with the Treasurer's misleading of this Parliament by making untruthful statements in this place to the effect that the Government does not interfere in any way whatsoever with the report that is prepared by the mission and published at a later date over the name of the OECD. First of all, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a cutting from the Melbourne  Age  of 4 August 1 978. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

JOBS VIEW DOCTORED 
OECD report toned down, pre-release draft shows 
From Tony Thomas 
Canberra- Forecasts of worsening unemployment were watered-down in a report on the Australian economy by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development last April. 
The changes, lessening the impact of the unemployment forecasts, were made between the OECD secretariat's preparation of its draft report and publication of the final report. 
The Government rejected allegations at the time that Treasury had censored the draft. 
But whatever the explanation, the published version was much more palatable to the Fraser Government than the draft. 
Paragraph 56 of the draft report forecast some further increase in unemployment 'at least well into the second half of the year'. 
The version published on April 27 forecast a 'possible' further increase in unemployment, 'at least during the first half of the year'. 
Later in the draft, the wording, ' the outlook for unemployment in 1978 is not good' was altered for public consumption to 'the outlook for the labour market in 1978 is not strong.'. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  was asked in Paris in June whether Press reports that Treasury had censored the report, were correct. 

 Mr Fraser replied that it was insulting to other countries' OECD representatives to suggest that they could be influenced in that way. 
And a senior Treasury official added that 'certain people ought to grow up'. 
The Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  was asked last night to comment on the differences in the OECD draft and final reports. 
He said he did not accept that the OECD 'doctored' its reports. 
I think the report was an honest assessment by the OECD of things as they saw them at the time', he said. 
The consultative procedures with Australia about the draft were exactly the same as the procedures in previous years'. 
Other variations included- 
Draft: Employment would be unlikely to increase until sometime in the second half of the year. Published: Employment might grow only slowly. 
Draft: The most that could probably be expected in 1978 is a flattening out of unemployment during the second half of the year following some rise in the first half. Published: 1978 may see some further rise in unemployment at least during the first half of the year. 
Draft: Australia's policies of reducing interest rates, controlling monetary growth and maintaining approximately the exchange rate 'may be less that fully coherent'. Published: Could give rise to some conflict. 
Draft: Net private capital outflow (presently) occurring. Published: Relatively small private capital inflow. This change was an accurate updating of the statistics. 
The draft also took a stronger line against the Prime Minister's emergency protection policies. 
It said it was not clear what long-term benefit was being derived from them. This was omitted in the final version. 
And it said the policies had caused 'a noticeable upward effect' on prices. This was changed to 'some increases in cost and price pressures'. 
-I thank the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I raised this question during a speech I made at the Parliament of Europe in Strasbourg on 3 October last year. Following my speech, I had a discussion with  Mr Van  Lennep, the Director-General of the OECD, and also important members of his staff who acknowledged to me that it was the custom and practice of these missions, when they came to a country to examine the economy of that country, to prepare a report. They told me that the discussions that they had with the government of the day did play a most important part in the framing of that report. This is stated in the article appearing in the Melbourne  Age  which has been incorporated in  Hansard.  The accusations which have been made that the Government does interfere have been confirmed by  Mr Van  Lennep and other members of his staff. 
The part that concerns me is that after the OECD prepares and publishes a report, to all intents and purposes it becomes holy writ. The Government then quotes from it and says that this is what the OECD has said about the Government when in actual fact it is the Government's own report that has been doctored by the Government and published by the OECD.  Mr Van  Lennep went so far as to say that he only stands by reports over his name, reports that he puts out. He does not vouch for the authenticity of reports that are put together by OECD missions that have been interfered with or tampered with by governments. This applies not only in Australia but also in other countries throughout the world. He explained to me that, unless the OECD prepares reports in line with government policies and in line with government thinking, it cannot get the information from governments. All I say is this: What is the use of putting these reports together unless they are authentic and not tampered with by governments? What is most objectionable of all occurs when the Treasurer comes in here and misleads this Parliament and the nation. He tells lies to the Parliament and should be dealt with accordingly. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Will the Prime Minister ensure that proper action is taken within the Public Service Board to guarantee that its operations are not bungled again as they were in the insurance allowance case involving air traffic controllers- a bungle which caused inconvenience and loss to countless thousands of Australians? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

-I wish to refer to an article by Captain Vic Sanderson in the  Australian  on Thursday, 22 March. I do not propose to read the whole of it but just three particular points. It was dealing with the decision of the Labor Government to build four ships,  Australian Progress, Australian Prospector, Australian Purpose  and  Australian Pioneer.  It is here that the misrepresentation occurs. The article states: 
This order contained three cardinal mistakes. In 1973 shipyard prices were at an alltime high, although already for one year it was clear that over-tonnaging of the world fleets must shortly occur. Secondly, the order was placed in Europe the two larger vessels with Blom &amp; Voss in Hamburg, and the two smaller ones with Gotawerken in Gothenburg, which was an affront to our Japanese trading partners. Thirdly, although the Japanese state that they recognise Australia's right to share in the Australia Japan ore trade, they were not consulted in any way on this matter. 
I refer to the first point raised by Captain Sanderson. Not only was the Labor Government caught with over-tonnage but so too were all the recognised shipping companies of the world. At that time there was not overtonnaging, as I will disclose in my reply to the second point. Captain Sanderson said that it was an affront to our Japanese trading partners to build the ships in Europe. The fact is that the Australian National Line made every effort to have the ships built in Japan, having in mind that they would be used in the Australia Japan ore trade. But there was not one shipyard in Japan then prepared to give delivery within a reasonable time. The shipyards indicated that they understood Australia's position that if it was going to enter the ore trade it would need ships and would have to have them at an early date. The Japanese understood the position but its shipyards had full order books at that time. 
The third matter concerns Captain Sanderson's statement that Japan had not been consulted in any way on this matter. I completely refute that statement because in 1973  Mr H.  P. Weymouth,  Chairman  of the then Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, together with the then General Manager,  Mr R.  D. Robin, went to Japan and had discussions with the managements of their steel industry and steel mills. They received a clear and precise understanding from the steel mills that in the event of the Australian National Line having bulk carriers that could carry iron ore between Australia and Japan, orders would be given and contracts would be entered into to carry the iron ore. 
I have made this statement on a number of occasions. On each occasion the Press has ignored it and has gone on writing what are absolutely and totally untruths and lies. 
Captain Sanderson has shown his incompetence by confusing the placing of an order for four 16,000 ton bulk ships with the placing of an order for two 140,000 ton ships and two 120,000 ton bulk ships. He should be doing his homework more thoroughly than he is doing at the moment. 
-by leave- I join the leader of the delegation, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  in expressing my thanks and appreciation, first of all, for the hospitality extended by the two host countries, namely Portugal and the Federal Republic of Germany. I draw attention particularly to the exceptional hospitality which was extended by the Federal Republic of Germany to all delegates and their assistants of various national groups, who must have totalled in the vicinity of 3,000 to 4,000 people. 
That was the first conference of that type that I have attended, so I cannot speak for the type of hospitality that has been provided to previous delegations. But I strongly counsel countries to reduce the extent of the hospitality that was certainly extended to us by the Germans. It must be of embarrassment to some of the poorer countries, where conferences should be held and must be held in years to come, to think that they have to try to match the exceptional hospitality that was extended to the delegates and to their parties in attendance. I say that in all sincerity. We enjoyed the hospitality, but I think it was too rich. The staff who accompanied us,  Mr Higgins  and  Dr Howard,  were of great assistance to members of the delegation. I thank the leader of the delegation for his kind words at the conclusion of his speech. I reciprocate by saying that, as a Liberal, he is not a bad bloke to work with. 
I suggest to the Government that when it appoints these delegations it should look to the British system. For years the late Brigadier Ward- unfortunately he passed away after the Bonn Conference- was a tower of strength to all British delegations. Whether a Conservative government or a Labour government was in power, the members of the British delegations were appointed on the same basis as are delegations from this Parliament. A Conservative government naturally appointed a Conservative delegation leader, and a Labour government had a Labour leader. The Labour Party delegation leader, who has been attending conferences, assured me that Brigadier Ward was of great assistance to him as leader. I believe that that is a system at which we should be looking instead of following the policy of rotating our assistants. Every conference one attends, one finds a new set of people accompanying one. For example, last time we had with us  Mr Arthur  Higgins. Next time we will have  Mr Nicholls  with us, and next year it will be somebody else. I think it is time that we had a look at the British system of having one official permanently in attendance. I accept the fact that the advisers are professionals in the Department of Foreign Affairs and that they have to accept promotions when they come their way because they then move on to a higher strata in the Department of Foreign Affairs. So we cannot exactly insist that the same man be there as adviser. What I suggest is that when there is a change- a change is taking place this year- there should be an overlap. For example,  Dr Ron  Howard should accompany this year's delegation. In this way he can advise the new adviser, who will be with us, who are the people to talk to in the other parties and governments. There is no doubt that  Dr Howard,  who had been with previous delegations, knew the people to talk to, who to go to, who to see to find out what was going on, how votes were going and what was to be the strategy employed by various governments. At least he could find out what was going on. I say this with no disrespect to the new man coming in. Now he has to learn the ropes. There is nothing like having an old dog teach the tricks. I suggest to the Government that it might still be well worth the expense of bringing  Dr Howard  back from his new appointment in South America to have a look at this matter. 
The Inter-Parliamentary Union is made up of 79 parliaments. In having a look at them we find, at a rough calculation, that no more than 22 could be called democratically elected parliaments. The rest of them, whether they be parliaments of the Left or parliaments of the Right, are all dictatorships. They are elected under a very restricted mode of ballot. In the 22 countries that I refer to as democratic I even include countries which are run something akin to the way in which Queensland is being run where, under the electoral system my Party could not win an election in a million years. But I am using that as an example to show that the overwhelming number of delegates is from parliaments which have a very restricted system of voting. I was interested in the way in which the business of the debates at this conference was conducted. I do not accept it when people say that these trips are a jaunt because I believe that members of the delegations are fair dinkum. That is why I feel that the Australian delegation could be advised better than it is, by the provision of additional people to advise delegates. I will come to a point later on with regard to the briefing of delegates which, I think, is worth having a look at. After all, this Parliament is represented by both sides of the House. Half the delegation is comprised of members of the Government and half members of the Opposition. It does not matter a hang which is the Government at the time. When we were in government between 1972 and 1975 half the delegates were from each side of the Parliament. So I ask honourable members to remember one thing and that is that Government members are not there forever. No government is there forever. No party is in power forever. Let us have a look at the future position so that at least both sides can be adequately briefed when they go to these conferences. 
When one has a look at what goes on at this conference it seems that blocs are built up and that double-crossing takes place. We saw a situation in the committee of which I was a member, where the Americans and other people made a deal. When the matter came to the committee for endorsement everyone said: 'She is right. Countries A and B have made a deal on this and this is the result'. When the matter came to the drafting committee for adoption the double-cross became evident. That occurred on a number of occasions in Lisbon and the same thing occurred in Bonn. So I see that the 79 countries which are represented there are playing for keeps. It is not a game of fun and everyone is working like hell to make sure that his point of view is brought to the fore and carried by way of resolution. That is the way I believe it should be, having been a delegate from this Parliament to the United Nations and now to the IPU. The IPU is a place where parliamentarians meet and make decisions. The United Nations is where public servants, acting on behalf of governments, meet and make decisions. So the situation at the IPU is such that the Eastern bloc, the Western bloc, religious blocs, and oil blocs form these groups and vote continuously as a bloc. It did not matter a hang what the motion was about. On disarmament we saw a situation of close voting over two particular issues. The Russians were trying to get the American's neutron bomb listed and condemned. At the same time the Americans were responding by condemning the Soviet SS20 armament system. So there was a situation finally of a very close vote. When it came to the Middle East, terrorism and colonialism, that close voting was still apparent, but it was on different grounds. With regard to the Middle East the oil bloc was taking effect and we saw what are commonly called democratic or Western bloc countries voting or abstaining because of the fact that they had to import their oil from the Middle East. This had a major effect on the way they voted. With regard to colonialism the IPU appeared to debate that issue on the basis of white supremacy over colour. I think that if we have a look at the world today we see that there are many cases and many countries where this has to be looked at, but not on the basis of white dominance over colour being evil and wrong. At the same time there is just as bad a situation existing where there is coloured dominance over colour and it is not far from this country either. These are issues that have to be worked out. 
One of the jobs that I believe the IPU does well is protecting members of Parliaments in countries where there are very restricted voting systems. I refer basically to Chile where there was the catastrophe of the government being overthrown by a reactionary extreme Right wing government. Today numerous parliamentarians are still in prison without trial. I honestly believe that if it were not for an organisation like the IPU those fellows would have disappeared. There would have been all sons of reasons why they no longer existed. It is because the secretariat of the IPU knows of their existence, knows their names and knows what prison they are in that those people are still alive today. We saw the same thing in countries close to Australia where former parliamentarians were still in prison. They had never been brought to trial. When the pressure was really put on we saw that country do something about this. It heeded the warnings that were being issued to it by the IPU. So I feel that the IPU does have a major effect. 
With regard to the briefs which I mentioned earlier, at the moment the delegation receives two briefs. One is from the department and it is obviously a brief prepared for Government members. A brief is prepared by the Parliamentary Library Research Service which I think could be put into the independent category. Honourable members can deal with it either way. But one brief is missing for the Opposition. Once again I warn honourable members on the Government side that they are in Government today but tomorrow they could be in Opposition. So we have to look to the future and not at the present. A brief should be prepared for Opposition members. In other words there would be a Government brief, an independent brief and a brief for the Opposition so that at least Opposition members would be better briefed than they are at the present time. As one who went from Opposition to Government as a Minister, I know how quickly governments change or how quickly departments change. Within 24 hours of becoming a Minister I was told the policies that the Government and its members had been pursuing in this particular facet of Government administration. So I ask honourable members not to say that departments can prepare briefs only for the Government. They can prepare them for the Opposition just as easily. I strongly suggest to the Government that people be authorised to do just that. There are two points I want to make in conclusion. I would like to mention the two parliaments that I visited at the conclusion of the IPU conference. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  There is far too high a level of conversation on my right. I ask honourable members to remain silent. - 
-One of the parliaments I visited was the Parliament of Europe and I found this most interesting. I had the opportunity of talking to numerous people from various political groups which have formed in the Parliament of Europe. These people were interested in what was happening in Australia and in our various attitudes to matters concerning them. The day I was there a discussion on Australia, as stated in the report, was held. It was the equivalent of a discussion on a matter of public importance. The people who took part in that debate wanted to know my comments on the matters that had led up to that MPI being brought forward. The forum is of value. I think it will be of greater value to members of this Parliament when the general elections take place under a new constitution in June of this year. The members of the Parliament of Europe will no longer be representing governments but will be representing constituencies the same as we do and as they do in the parliaments of their countries at present. 
I refer finally to the Council of Europe. The  President  of the Council of Europe on this occasion gave the Australian delegation which comprised  Senator Rae  and myself an assurance that in future we would be invited to participate in all debates the Council engaged in which concerned us, such as atmospheric or river pollution. These subjects are concerning Europe as a whole. Delegations from Australia, Canada, the United States, New Zealand and Japan which are all associate members of the Council of Europe will be invited to participate in the debates if they wish. Previously these delegations have been permitted to take part only in the debate on the annual report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Now with a bit of commonsense the delegations will be able to take part in all debates. I thank honourable members for their attention. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the number of complaints that honourable members receive from constituents concerning what appear to be exorbitantly high accounts for metered telephone calls? I draw his attention to an article in the  Daily Telegraph  of 9 March 1979 which referred to accounts amounting to $3,100 and $1,400. I draw his attention also to complaints which have been made in recent weeks in my electorate concerning accounts of $800, $400, $500 and $1,200 and to numerous complaints concerning accounts amounting to $200. Does the Minister agree that when these complaints are multiplied by the other 185 honourable members and senators, there must be a formidable number of disgruntled subscribers? Will the Minister consider the setting up of a parliamentary select committee to investigate and report to the Parliament whether these and the many other complaints are justified; whether the metering system is foolproof as claimed by Telecom; whether there are any checking systems in use in any overseas country; if so, whether they should be introduced in Australia; whether most complaints are associated with metered calls; whether there is in use overseas any system which separates subscriber trunk dialling calls from local calls; and whether there is any way in which a signal could be given, say, every one or two minutes to warn subscribers of the duration of STD calls? 
I am pleased to see the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in the House and I thank him for staying. I wish to refer to a statement he made on 27 February headed: 'National Highway By-Pass of Mittagong and Berrima'. This was an announcement made by the Minister for Transport in line with the advice of the New South Wales Minister for Transport concerning this by-pass road which is to cost $54m and which is to be completed by the mid-1980s. My objection to the proposal is that the average daily traffic rating for the Berrima-Mittagong area is 7,310 vehicles. I repeat that the average daily traffic is 7,310 vehicles. A report entitled: National Highway Linking Sydney and Brisbane (Newcastle area) 1976' was put together. This is the most heavily trafficked section of the national highway in Australia. At Tuggerah in 1976 there was an average daily traffic rating of 21,310 vehicles. On the Berowra Tollway in the same year the rating was 20,170 vehicles. On the Pacific Highway- that is the road one can travel on for nothing if one does not want to pay the toll- the rating was 4,850 vehicles. That makes a total of 25,000 vehicles. 
If we want a comparison of the two highways for the same year, in 1974 the traffic count at the same places showed 22,270 vehicles. That means that there are three times as many vehicles traversing that section of the national highway as there are in this section at Berrima-Mittagong where a $54m by-pass road is to be built. Yet this report, which recommended the construction of the national highway on the west side of Lake Macquarie, is still in the planning-investigation stage obviously. In other words, it is the Kathleen Mavourneen category maybe today; maybe tomorrow. The way the New South Wales Government Minister looks at the matter is unfortunate. Unfortunately the Federal Minister for Transport is allowing him to dictate how and when money shall be allocated for road construction. It is Federal money. The national highways are 100 per cent financed by Federal money. I hope that this Minister would insist that where the priorities require it the funds should be allocated. 
Unfortunately the Newcastle-Sydney Highway is made up in the main of two-way traffic. It has very limited sections that are four-way. The tollway is four-lane and six-lane in some places. The death toll on that section of the road in comparison with other hazardous sections is something like one-sixth of the total road accident rate. Yet here we find the most heavily trafficked road in Australia which carries three times the density of traffic as the section that is proposed to be upgraded and all that has been allocated is $ 10m to provide a second rate road. I hope that the Minister will have sufficient courage to insist that Federal money is allocated on a priority basis. I do not know what the hell was the basis of priority to determine the allocation of $54m for the Berrima-Mittagong section. There is no justification for it in comparison with the need for the money to be spent on the NewcastleSydney section of the highway. 
The National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill 1979 provides for repayable grants to the States. The Opposition has moved an amendment and I seek leave to incorporate the amendment in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The amendment read as follows- 

That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that- 
1 ) the provision of financial assistance by section 96 interest bearing repayable grants is a repudiation of the Government's 1977 Election promise to contribute to the cost of upgrading mainline rail links in the light of the clear impression then given that assistance would be by way of non-repayable grants, and 
the provision of $3m to the States for 1978-79 under this Bill (a) is abysmally inadequate and an abrogation of Australian Government responsibility for the transportation of passengers and freight on routes of national significance, and ( b ) is wholly inconsistent with an effective approach to the upgrading of mainline railway networks as an essential pan of a responsible National Energy Conservation Program '. 
-I thank the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I would like to congratulate the honourable member for 
Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who just spoke in the debate. Whilst I do not agree with all that he said at least I believe he made a contribution to transport in the latter part of his speech. It is pleasing to see that there are now some Government members who at least have some understanding and appreciation of transport requirements. I would strongly recommend that the honourable member do some further reading on the need for an interstate commission because that is the only instrument which can ever achieve the things which he is looking to do. 
I turn now to a speech that was made last night- a most irresponsible speech- by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I have always been of the opinion that the honourable member is an irresponsible  speaker  and he confirmed that last night. I refer honourable members to page 1454 of  Hansard  at which the honourable member is reported as saying: 
This is not a case of the Commonwealth Government taking a sledge hammer to the State governments. This is not a case of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  as meek and gentle as he is, browbeating the Premiers into submission. 
-Good heavens-the irresponsible  speaker  has arrived. For your information,  Sir - 
We are discussing a progress report by the 
Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  dealing with the final report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. As I have said before, that Committee was fortunate in having two good chairmen, the former honourable member for Herbert,  Mr Bonnet,  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who just resumed his seat. Both members- as did the  Deputy Chairman,  the late honourable member for Grayndler, and formerly Lang, Frank Stewart- have a genuine interest in tourism. The Committee was fortunate that it had decent leadership. As a result, its report was a good one. The honourable member for Bowman and the late Frank Stewart were responsible for putting together the report. I was a member of the Committee. The Committee was fortunate in that the late Frank Stewart, who was the Minister for Tourism and Recreation in the Labor Government, lent to it his know-how and knowledge. The report before the Parliament is a good one. 
The tourist industry is a very substantial industry. The tourist attraction in some little corner of an honourable member's electorate is not the sole part of the Australian tourist industry. We have to look at the industry as a whole. The industry represents 2.7 per cent of the gross domestic product; it employs 2.5 per cent of total Australian work force; and 2.9 per cent of total Australian capital is invested in it. The industry also earns some $325m annually in foreign exchange, which indicates that it is a quite substantial export industry, to look at it in another way. One can look at it on the basis of the revenue that the tourists bring to Australia. One can also look at it on the basis of its being an export industry. Both have a very substantial effect on the balance of payments situation in Australia. 
I congratulate the Government for requiring ministerial statements to be made on select committee reports. It is a worthwhile innovation. In the past reports have been thrown in a heap and no one has ever known what has happened to them. I give credit where credit is due. The Government's economic policy is a tragedy but its record in this area is good. The reports of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, of which I am also a member, have been treated in the same way. But I am disappointed that so little has been done as far as this report is concerned. So much could be done for a minor outlay. The Government suddenly found $10m-odd to buy two Boeing 707 aircraft for the VIP fleet but-and I am not trying to bring politics into this area to any great extent- it could not find the same amount of money to implement immediately the recommendations put forward by the Committee, which would be of great value to the industry. I am particularly disappointed in this respect. 
There has been a lot of talk about what should be done to assist the tourist industry. As this Parliament's representative, together with the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  at meetings of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, I have had the opportunity to travel overseas on three occasions in the last 18 months. I took advantage of that opportunity to look at the tourist industry overseas. I am disappointed that this Government and certain people in the Australian tourist industry want to play politics with award rates of pay and conditions. The General Manager of the largest hotel chain in Australia has said quite frankly and publicly: 'Get rid of penalty rates and it will reduce hotel accommodation by about 50c a night'. I did not say that. It was said by the General Manager of Travelodge Australia Ltd. He is on record as saying that. The honourable member for Bowman, the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, nods his head in agreement with what I am saying. The General Manager quoted that figure. I am only repeating what he said. I think the best thing to do is to forget about the penalty rates issue. The Government and certain people in the Australian tourist industry should stop trying to stir up trouble in the trade unions which represent workers in that industry and should get on with the job of selling the industry. 
As I have said, I have had the opportunity to travel overseas recently. For those who may be interested a most interesting table appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 5 May which confirms the things that I want to put to the House now. 
-Thank you very much. I stayed in a hotel in Paris for $50 a day. I believe that I was touched. I was touched and so was everyone else who had to pay that sort of price for the accommodation on offer. As a delegate to the Bonn conference, I paid $73 a day for accommodation. As a delegate to the Prague conference a couple of weeks ago, I paid $70 a day. If I had stayed in a similar hotel in Australia I would not have paid any more than about $20 a day. I had to pay $50 a day, or 250 francs a day, for accommodation in Paris for which I would not have paid more than $18 a day in this country. 
The tourist industry in this country is not selling Australia overseas as far as accommodation is concerned. The tourist industry in Australia is squealing all the time about the cost of air fares in Australia. However, the cost of air fares in Australia is about half the cost of air fares in Europe. The figures, which are on record, show quite clearly just what is the position. Let us look at the cost of rail travel. Many people have asked me whether I purchased a Eurorail ticket while I was away. I did not purchase such a ticket. Fourteen days of travel on Australian railways can be purchased for $150. This is cheaper than the price of a Eurorail ticket for a similar period. In addition, 21 days of travel on Australian railways can be purchased for $200 and 28 days of travel can be purchased for $250. 
Recently the honourable member for Berowra and I travelled from Frankfurt to Strasbourg on a T.E.E. train at a cost of $25 plus $1.50 for the reservation. The respective cost in German currency is 50 marks and 3 marks. The cost of travelling by the same type of train from Sydney to Newcastle is $5.25. The cost of a meal for two people on the train from Venice to Vienna was $19. That is what the travellers in Europe would pay. But the same meal on an Australian train, such as the Southern Aurora, the Indian Pacific or the inter-capital city runs from Sydney to Melbourne or Sydney to Brisbane would cost no more than $4 at the most. 
We have something to sell in this country in terms of accommodation and domestic travel. The hoteliers put all the blame on the aviation industry. They talk about open skies and letting anyone flood into Australia. As far as I am concerned, Qantas Airways Ltd is a first-class international airline. I am always happy and contented when I am travelling with Qantas. I do not say the same about the other airlines. I do not agree with the decision taken by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to give member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations part of our trade. They have no rights to our trade between Europe, Italy and Greece. All of this trade should be the sole preserve of the international carriers under the bilateral agreements. 
It was not until the Labor Government took office in 1972 that we were able to get the domestic airlines to introduce some form of off-peak travel within Australia. As the Minister for Transport, I had hell 's own trouble with Ansett. I finally got to the stage of saying to  Sir Frederick  Scherger, the then  Chairman  of Trans-Australia Airlines: 'Do you want it or don't you? If you want off-peak fares they will start on a certain date. You can tell the other fellow that that is the date they start. You can be in it or out of it. The decision is yours. ' At a later stage we brought in the 30 per cent 'See Australia ' concession fare for international travellers. I am pleased to say that since then additional package deals have been put together in the interests of tourism. All those concessions have reduced Australian fares to a level which is well below European fares and well and truly comparable with American fares. We have cheap accommodation and cheap transport and train travel in Australia is at least half the price that Europeans have to pay on their much lauded T-trains. We have to get up and do the job. It is up to the industry to do this sort of thing and it is up to the Government to give the industry every assistance. 
The revenue from the $10 airport departure tax will provide to the Australian Tourist Commission a lousy amount- that is the only way to describe it- to sell Australia. Like the honourable member for Bowman I am not 100 per cent on side with the State governments that are trying to sell their States overseas. The thing is to get people here. The honourable member for Berowra and I were talking recently to the various groups of the Parliament of Europe and they talked about Australia as if it were on another planet. We were talking about it as if we were going to travel interstate. We said to them: What are you talking about? After a 24-hour plane journey you are in Australia'. People on the other side of the world just do not realise this fact. This all comes back to my point that there is not sufficient promotion of Australia overseas. The revenue from the $ 10 airport departure tax should be devoted completely to the promotion of Australia overseas so that people will know at least what is out here and what they can do about getting here. 
We could talk about better roads, for which the Committee's report says there is a need. When we were in Government we made provision in our roads legislation for the Minister for Tourism and Recreation to have a say on how much money was to be allocated for roads. When I was the Minister for Transport 1 was cooked by the then shadow Minister, the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  because I did not have the total say about where roads were to go. We wanted to give each Minister who had a responsibility that involved roads the right to say where money was going to be spent. If he had projects which he wanted to get underway, he made a recommendation and decision in consultation with the Minister for Transport rather than the Minister for Transport having the sole and final say, which is the situation which exists at present. I come back to the point that I am sorry that the Minister has not been in a position to say that the Government is going to do a number of things that could be done for an expenditure of about $5m which would be of great value and assistance to the industry. 
One of our recommendations was that an interdepartmental committee be set up to inquire into the industry. That is under way. A working paper has been prepared. That is good; it did not cost the Government anything. I congratulate the Minister for getting on with the recommendation concerning the Export Market Development Grants scheme. As far as I know the Commonwealth Development Bank has not yet got into a position where it can advance cheap money to people who want to carry out these developments. This comes back to one point: The Government has got to give the guidelines. I am sorry to say that the Minister responsible for tourism is not giving sufficient guidelines to this important industry which can bring about very substantial development in non-capital areas and which can provide a lot of employment for people in areas that have not got any major industries. This requires a Government led by a Minister of the calibre of Frank Stewart who had the initiative and the drive to get on with the task of providing the necessary impetus and encouragement. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether he recalls this promise made by the Prime Minister in the 1975 election policy speech: 
In the next Budget, we will make the first major move towards adoption of the stock valuation provisions of the Mathews report. We will introduce the report in full over three years. 
Does the Treasurer also recall the reiteration of this undertaking by his predecessor in the 1976 Budget Speech? In view of these clear promises, will the Treasurer now completely deny reports that not only will the Government not fulfil its promise to complete the introduction of the full stock valuation adjustment in the next financial year but it also plans to remove the existing 50 per cent adjustment? Is this to become another addition to the long list of promises broken by the Fraser Government? 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to statements by a senior Government Minister that unemployment benefits are too high and should be lowered. Has his attention been drawn also to a statement by one of his back benchers that, in fact, unemployment benefits should be abolished altogether for people under 25 years of age? Does the Prime Minister agree with the views put forward by these spokesmen and is he aware that the area represented by one of these spokesmen has the highest youth unemployment rate in Australia? Will he assure the House that the unemployment benefit will not be further reduced or, in the case of people under 25 years of age, will not be abolished? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether on 25 March this year he stated: 
We have been prudent and careful in the use of taxpayers' funds. 
How prudent and careful was the Prime Minister during his six-day visit to New York in June last year when he,  Mrs Fraser  and 2 1 personal staff and advisers spent $68,000 of taxpayers' money, including $33,000 for hotel bills - 
-The Bill before the House is the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill, which provides a guarantee to permit Qantas Airways Limited to borrow $US94m for the purchase of its 18th and 19th 747 aircraft. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. As the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  has said, it gives members of the Parliament the opportunity of saying a few words about the affairs of Qantas and the loan arrangements of the Government. The loan of $US94m will now be added to the more than $4,000m that this Government has borrowed overseas in the period in which it has been in office since 13 December 1975. This is the Government that was so critical of the Labor Party endeavouring to borrow a similar amount to carry out the development of this country. I draw those few facts to the attention of honourable members. 
I join with the honourable member for Cook in expressing my regret and disapproval at the fact that honourable members in this place are not informed of the details of the loan. We have not got any information. The very short second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  consisted of two pages typed in double spacing. It gave us the briefest possible information about the operations of Qantas Airways Ltd and why the Parliament should approve this loan. No detail was given to us about the period of the loan or the rate of interest. At one time this sort of information was made available to the Parliament. At one time we knew that the loan was to be an EximBank loan over a period of 10 years with so many repayment periods. The rate of interest was given as well as the amount of money which had to come from other sources. 
-This Government did it. This is the information that should be brought to our attention. We should also be given information on where the Government is going with its airline pricing arrangements and what the future prospects are with regard to fuel. I will deal with that matter in greater detail at a later stage. I believe it is important that the Parliament knows where it is going, particularly in the development of an airline. I was interested in the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the Opposition's shadow Minister for Transport, on the amalgamation of Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas. If the Governor-General and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has not made that monstrous decision and organised that conspiracy which brought about the downfall of the Labor Government in 1975, the two airlines would have been amalgamated by this time. 
At that stage I had offered  Sir Donald  Anderson, who was then the  Chairman  of Qantas, the position of  Chairman  of both Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines. This was to have been the lead up to the amalgamation of the two airlines. After I had consulted with  Sir Donald  and discussed the whole project with him, he agreed to accept the dual appointment. Regrettably, at that stage  Sir Frederick  Scherger, who was a great  chairman,  had just resigned because of age and we had to appoint a new  chairman.  The possibility of the amalgamation of the two airlines was discussed, and  Sir Donald  agreed with it. He concurred fully with the proposition and accepted the dual appointment. Unfortunately, before the decision could be taken to Cabinet, ratified and implemented,  Sir Donald,  on medical advice, resigned not only from the position of  Chairman  of TAA but also as  Chairman  of Qantas. As we now know, he passed away a very short time later. I ask the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  as spokesman for the Labor Party on transport matters, to pursue this point because there would be definite economies for the Australian airline industry in the amalgamation of the two airlines. Certainly that was the opinion of the Department of Transport at that time. 
I was surprised that the honourable member for Cook talked about preferential treatment being given to Qantas as a government airline when private airlines do not get this guarantee. I assume that when an honourable member comes into this place to make a speech he has done a little work to make sure that his facts are correct. Honourable members will recall that earlier this year we approved a similar arrangement for Ansett Airlines of Australia to borrow overseas about $1 1.12m, I think, to purchase the 727-200 series aircraft. That money probably finished up in Associated Securities Limited, its finance company. At the same time, because of the foreign currency position, TAA used its own money rather than borrowing the cheap money available from overseas. This is one of the matters on which I think the Minister for Transport should be present to comment. I draw attention to the fact that the Minister is absent when we are discussing important transport legislation and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is in the chamber in his place. With all respect to him, even though advisers from the Department of Transport are present- even though they are good men- I think it is the responsibility of the Minister for Transport to be present to give us the information we require. 
In 1977-78 exchange losses on loans were $15,831,000, and that was the reason why TAA elected to use its own reserves to purchase its 727-200 series aircraft late last year. No explanation has been given as to why Qantas is not following a similar procedure. Is it in a position to continue sustaining losses in excess of $ 15m each year, based on exchange rates? The 1977-78 annual report shows how Qantas has suffered. In previous years it made profits- I suppose that 'gains' is the correct term. In fact, in every year it has made some sort of minor adjustment. But in the last two years it has lost over $23m as a result of exchange rates. No explanation of the position has been given to us. Does Qantas expect that problem to be overcome or will it continue? When an airline is making a limited profit, as Qantas is at present, it cannot continue to sustain those sorts of exchange rate losses. I hope that some explanation will be given by the Minister for Productivity in his reply as to how the Government views the situation and, most importantly, how Qantas views it. Can it continue to suffer these losses as a result of exchange rates? 
The question of cheap air fares is always one of interest, but before I deal with that matter I wish to refer to aviation fuel. One is always reading about this matter in the newspapers. Only just recently- on 24 May- the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said in part, in answer to a question about fuel costs, as recorded at page 2324 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 24 May: 
In the meantime we have to try to ensure that our existing reserves of oil are extended Tor as long as possible. Oil is a wasting resource. Therefore, Australia must do all that is possible to encourage exploration. We must look at all possible means of conserving the oil that we have available and we must intensify our efforts to look for alternative forms of fuel and energy. 
Further, in the  Australian Financial Review  of 23 May there is an article on the shortage of oil which states in part: 
Amid calls for global oil rationing, the United States and other Western Governments were warned yesterday that the present world oil shortage may already have condemned them to a prolonged economic downturn, with rising unemployment and high inflation that would last until the middle of the next decade. 
The warning came from Emile Van Lennep, the Dutchborn Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development . . . 
In the  Australian Financial Review  of Thursday, 24 May, there is an article entitled 'Oil Shockwaves Spill to Australia', which reads in part: 
There is a strong possibility that Australia will face a shortage of refined petroleum products in the second-half of this year as a result of the world oil shortage. 
In the  Daily Commercial News,  which is another newspaper specialising to a great extent in transport, there is a similar type of warning. So in those newspapers and in that  Hansard  we have the warning about the position with regard to petrol and fuel oil. We have seen what has happened in Australia. In April of this year, there was a 47 per cent increase in the price of Avgas. Even though Avtur is quite OK at present, the question is: What is the position with regard to continuity of supply? There is nothing in the Minister's statement, that brief two-page, double-spaced typed speech which gives us any indication, either from Qantas or from the Government, as to what is the position in regard to continuity of supply. Just recently in the Press, the  Chairman  of Qantas is reported as saying that on one occasion Qantas had to pay $1.10 a gallon for fuel at an overseas port. When we realise that it is only a matter of about three or four years since Qantas was buying fuel at 12c a gallon here in Australia, I think we have to start looking very closely at what is the position regarding our spending $94m on Qantas and its subsequent exchange loss to which I have referred. The accumulated long term debt of Qantas has increased in the last 10 years from $88,594,000 to $285,692,000-quite a substantial increase. Revenue, has not increased at the same rate for the same period. In 1 968-69, revenue amounted to $171,491,000 whilst in 1977-78 it amounted to $648,645,000. So the accumulated debt is increasing at a much greater rate than the increase in revenue. 
We have a fuel problem and we should not try to fool ourselves that fossil fuel is there to be used in the quantities in which it was used 10 years ago. We cannot ignore the statements that have been made by world authorities such as  Mr Van  Lennep of the OECD. He has issued a warning that, as a result of oil price increases, in the next decade we could well find ourselves in a serious economic position. So these warnings cannot be ignored. Why can we not get an answer or a statement from the Minister as to just what is the real position so far as fuel is concerned. 
Furthermore, we have not been given any idea of what Qantas 's program will be. I noted that the honourable member for Cook, with apparently great pride and joy, said that Qantas was the first round-the-world airline. Of course it was, but what he did not tell people is that the American leg of it was costing about $4m a year. Qantas was losing over $4m a year. So if the honourable member's pride and joy is worth $4m a year, he can pay it, but I do not think that an airline should pay it. That loss was being incurred purely and simply because the Americans would not allow Qantas to pick up new traffic from the time it landed on the West Coast of America. Qantas could pick up only those passengers whom it had brought to the West Coast or whom it had dropped off on the East Coast on the way to the United Kingdom. Qantas could not pick up any fresh traffic. That was a loss that Qantas could not continue to incur and I believe that the right decision was taken to discontinue that route and a number of others on which Qantas was losing money, such as the route to Mexico. Qantas has to be treated as a commercial undertaking. Let us forget all these emotions about Qantas being the first round-the-world airline. If it costs $4m in the process, it is no damn good and it should be wrapped up as soon as possible. That is what the Labor Party did about it because it was not in the economic interests of the airline to go on doing that sort of thing. 
I should like to hear from the Minister what the airline is going to do in regard to regional services around Australia and to New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Djakarta and to those close handy operations where it is not possible to operate 747s. Has any consideration been given to purchasing a couple of, say, A300s which are the most cost-efficient aircraft in the world today? They are very much suited to that type of operation. Incidentally, the local domestic airlines are pulling the wool over the Minister's eyes here by preventing the introduction of this type of aircraft- these wide bodied, short range jets- into Australian domestic services. We get all this humbug about reducing domestic airfares, while the introduction of these aircraft is one way in which those air fares could be reduced. Of course 
Ansett does not like the idea and, if  Sir Reg  does not like it, the Government does not like it. They are the plain facts of the matter. What Reg wants is what the Government does. The Government is like a puppet at the end of the Ansett string because when Ansett slings as much to a political Party as he has to yours,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the Liberal Party and the National Country Party and to the Australian Democratic Labor Party - 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: What other allegations, apart from the allegations initially made by Donald and Isabel Wilson, have come to his notice concerning infiltration of the Narcotics Bureau by drug traffickers? Is the Minister satisfied that he has been informed of all such allegations and will be so informed in the future? 
-I would like to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) How many civilians were employed at 30 June in each year from 1970. 
How many were (a) adult males, (b) adult females, (c); junior males and (d) junior females. 
What was the population of Australia at 30 June in each year from 1970. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that since his Government came to power in December 1975 the wage of the average worker with dependent spouse and two children has increased by $50 a week, but to buy the same amount of goods and services as before now costs $50.8 1 more a week? Is it also a fact that in the same period health costs have increased by $7 a week and direct income tax has increased by $7.50 a week? Does this mean that under the Fraser Government the average Australian working family is now about $15 a week worse off? In view of the Prime Minister's tax hoax in the Budget of last night I ask him how much more he expects Australian families to pay for his economic incompetence. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
What was the (a) value of assets, (b) outstanding debt, (c) loan repayments, (d ) interest payments and (e) profit or loss, for the year's trading for each State rail system and the Australian National Railways, in each year since 1972 (Question No. 4973,  Hansard,  2 1 March 1 972, page 96 1 ). 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether Trans-Australia Airlines has placed a holding deposit on four A300 wide bodied jets. Is this aeroplane the most cost effective middle range aircraft in the world and operationally the quietest? Would the introduction of this aircraft onto the main routes substantially reduce the noise level and frequency of aircraft movements around airports? Has Ansett Transport Industries Ltd any plans for the early introduction of the A300 or any other widebodied jet airliner? Having in mind this aircraft's economic, operational and environmental advantages, will the Minister give an assurance that the early entry of the wide-bodied aircraft will not be delayed? Finally, is there anything in the two-airline agreement that would prevent either TAA or ATI from going it alone with the early introducton of wide-bodied aircraft onto Australia 's main trunk routes? 
-I ask the Minister for Industrial Relations: When did he first learn that members of his personal staff released copies of  Mr Justice  Staples' letter on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill to members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery on the night of Thursday, 1 1 October? Did the Minister authorise the release before or after it was released? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
What are the  reserves  of (a) natural gas and (b) oil located in Australia. 
What are the names of the companies exploiting the areas in which (a) natural gas and (b) oil, have been discovered, 
Which of these companies are (a) wholly Australianowned, (b) partly Australian-owned and (c) wholly owned by overseas interests. 
What oil prospecting leases are held by those companies which are wholly overseas-owned. 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether the Bureau of Customs, in its submission in November 1977 to the Williams Royal Commission, acknowledged a staff turnover of almost 25 per cent in the Narcotics Bureau. Did the interim report tabled in Parliament yesterday indicate that more than 50 per cent of police officers recruited by the Bureau had resigned since 1970? Did the head of his Department,  Mr Besley,  tell the Royal Commission that he was unsure whether any investigation had been made of the high staff turnover within the Bureau? When did the Minister become aware of this staff loss and what did he do to correct it, in view of the clear warning it gave of poor morale and administrative inefficiency within the Bureau? 
