I rise to bring before the attention of the House a matter which I regard as being of the most urgent importance to my electorate - certainly to at least half the people living in that electorate, that is, in the city of Bendigo. A decision was made recently by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  to transfer from Bendigo the Army Headquarters Survey Regiment which has been in Bendigo since 1942. What the Minister has decided to do will inflict very severe damage on the city of Bendigo. I am particularly concerned about it and I request the Minister to give very serious reconsideration to the decision that he has made, because it is of such vital importance to Bendigo. 
Since 1942 the Army Headquarters Survey Regiment has been situated in Bendigo. The military personnel engaged at 'Fortuna', the historic property at which the regiment is located, numbers some 240, and 17 civilians are employed there also. The decision that has been made by the Minister for the Army is to transfer 240 people within the next 5 years. I cannot say at this stage how many more people will be involved in the transfer. I do not know how many of the 240 are married. I think it is safe to assume that another 500 dependants will go with them. Consider what this means to my city. We are being faced with a depopulation to the extent of 750 people approximately, and that is going to have a very severe and drastic effect upon the economy of Bendigo. 
I want to stress that the Army Headquarters Survey Regiment in Bendigo is one of our most precious industries. We simply cannot afford to lose it. It ranks with some other government industries such as the Victorian Inland Meat Authority, the railway workshops and the ordnance factory, as enterprises which are vital to the maintenance of the population and economy of Bendigo. For these reasons we simply cannot accept the decision that the Survey Regiment should be transferred. What will be the economic effects of the removal of the Regiment? It is probably a safe bet to suggest that up to $lm less could be in circulation in Bendigo as a result of the removal of these 240 soldiers. This will have a pretty severe effect on our economy. If they consider it, honourable members will see how serious the matter is and why I am raising it in the House tonight. A lot of people in Bendigo will be affected, including shopkeepers, businessmen, builders and the farmers round about. Almost every sector of the economy will be hit by the decision. 
It is particularly important that the population of Bendigo be maintained. I want to set my argument tonight against the background of what has been happening in Bendigo. People in Bendigo are particularly concerned with the economic development of that city. That is a fair enough thing to say about any provincial city in Victoria or any provincial city in Australia. The point is that we are particularly concerned about it. There is one thing upon which almost all people in Bendigo agree, that is, the need for more industrialisation and an increase in the population of Bendigo. We are trying to increase the population to 100,000 people so that the economy can become self-generating. Honourable members can imagine what effect the withdrawal of 750 people would have on the economy of Bendigo. 
We are trying at the moment to sell Bendigo and are using the slogan: Put the go into Bendigo. If we allow the population of Bendigo to be decreased by 750, obviously we will be suffering a very severe setback. Bendigo has just recovered from one severe blow through the winding up of a local industry of which we were very proud. I refer to Massey-Ferguson (Australia) Ltd. The closure of that business was at least partly the result of the Government's policy for primary industry. Against the background of that economic situation and our desire to increase the population of Bendigo I ask the Minister to reconsider the decision he has made. I ask him to reverse that decision and allow the Survey Regiment to remain in Bendigo. If the Regiment leaves Bendigo there will also be indirect economic effects. It is probable that 17 civilians will lose their jobs. All sorts of industries and businesses will feel the effects because of the amount of money that will be taken out of the local community. One can expect therefore that employers will be correspondingly under pressure to limit employment opportunities in future. 
The main argument 1 have so far put forward in opposition to the removal of the Regiment from Bendigo has been economic, but there is more to it than that. To us in Bendigo, the Army headquarters of the Survey Regiment is a Bendigo institution. II is regarded as part of Bendigo. It was established in 1942 and has remained there for 28 years. Soldiers and officers have established homes in Bendigo, have raised their families there and have made friends in the community. All this will be sacrificed if the Survey Regiment is removed to Bonegilla. There is a great deal of disruption in the life of military personnel in normal circumstances and the maximum effort should be made to ensure that soldiers and officers are subjected to a minimum of disruption. It strikes me that the Army has a positive genius for disrupting family life and preventing soldiers from becoming too closely tied to a local community. I believe that the Survey Regiment is located in an ideal situation at 'Fortuna'. The Regiment is very closely integrated with the people of Bendigo. I believe that you simply could not find anywhere in Australia a better relationship between military personnel and civilians. That is worth very serious consideration. 
Some Army camps are located a fair distance from cities and a sense of tension and mutual suspicion develops between the military and civilian community. But that is nol the case in Bendigo. The Survey Regi ment is very closely connected with the people of Bendigo and that is very much to be preserved. 
It is the centre of Victoria. At least, it is so far. I have been struck by one other thing. So far as I can see, to date this Regiment has been an independent and self-sufficient unit. I am wondering why it is to be suddenly changed after 28 years. What has happened? ls this unit no longer independant and vitually selfsufficient? What arguments can be made for its removal from Bendigo? The Minister has put forward some arguments. 1 have placed a question on the notice paper to elicit further information as to the exact reasons for the change. The rather glib explanation I have so far is that technical, administrative and logistic economies are to be made by the Army. I have no doubt that I will be informed at length as to what they are. 
The Government should not be concerned purely and solely with the interests of one arm of government. It should not be concerned solely with what it believes to be the interests of the Army. There is more to government than just that. The Government must appreciate the interests of its various arms in relation to the interests of the people as a whole. For that reason the people of Bendigo should be given very serious consideration. For that reason 1 should like the Minister to reverse his decision. He has said that he intends to transfer the Survey Regiment from Bendigo. He said in a letter in reply to me that he would reconsider the future Army use of 'Fortuna' I am very grateful for the understanding he gave in the Melbourne 'Herald' tonight in reply to Vincent Matthews. The article quotes the Minister as saying: 
But we are planning to continue using the buildings which will be left vacant at Fortuna, Bendigo. 
But that is not enough for us in Bendigo because we are determined that the Survey Regiment should be retained there, lt is vital to the economy of Bendigo. If it is removed the city could lose 750 people and the economy of Bendigo could suffer a setback from which it might take several years to recover. 
The Minister for Social Services will recall that, when pensions were last increased at Budget time last year, the average Australian weekly earnings were $71.40. Has his attention been brought to recent figures issued by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician which show that average weekly earnings in Victoria and New South Wales have now topped $80? In view of these rises in earnings and in view of the continuing increases in the cost of living, will the Minister consider suggesting to Cabinet that a supplementary Budget be brought down in this session so that all social service pensions can keep up with rising costs and so that a fair share of the nation's wealth can be given to all who depend on these pensions? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. My question relates to the recent Cabinet decision to exclude from the 1971 census certain questions about incomes, sources of finance, social security, insurance and housing facilities. Are these statistics necessary for intelligent social and economic planning? Were the committees which advised the Government on the census entitled the Commercial and Academic Committee and the Physical Planning Committee? What sorts of bodies did those committees represent? Did the two committees advise that the relevant questions which were excluded should be included in the census? If so, on what grounds did the Government decide to exclude the questions from the census? 
 I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for the entertainment he has given us. I listen with delight to his speeches because they always contain an element of mirth which shows that he is not merely a man of profundity and gravity but a man who, at various times, can blend with those qualities a degree of humour and levity. He stated that Opposition members shared a number of misconceptions as to the nature of this legislation, that we are under a number of delusions about this Act. Having noted what he said in the course of his speech, it seems apparent to me that he shares those so called delusions with us. For example, the point that the Australian Labor Party often makes about the value of the $500 grant being eroded was made by him. He would have done a very good job had he come over and joined us because many of the things he said, when he was not attacking us, were mainly in agreement with us. 
There is one thing with which we cannot agree. The honourable member said that the Australian Government has the best housing record in the world. Superficially it is quite true that Australia has a very large percentage of home ownership. This, however, is not the point. One of the main points that the Labor Party often brings up is the fact that many people are living in sub-standard housing. If a person travels through many parts of Melbourne, and many parts of the electorates throughout Australia, he will find sub-standard houses which are worth $2,000, $4,000 or perhaps $5,000. They are all owned, but who is proud to occupy them, and what person can say that that standard of living is civilised? That is the whole point. In addition some 30% of the Australian people do not own their own homes, lt is not a question of their not owning their own homes as a matter of deliberate choice or of their lacking the incentive of thrift and providence - qualities that the Liberals are accustomed to waxing rhetorical and eloquent about. It is a matter of sheer economic circumstances over which they have no control but over which this Government has control and against which it has failed to take effective action. Nothing is more apparent than that the ability of the State housing authorities to deal with the housing problems of people on low incomes has never been lower. Let us not repeat this nonsense about our having the best housing record in the world without looking into the problem and seeing what is exactly the case. 
I should like to query a number of other statements made by the honourable member for Griffi'th. He was carried away in the course of his speech. He obviously enjoys his speeches as do we, but for different reasons. One statement he made was that one member on this side of the House referred to the grant as being a loan. The honourable member for Griffith made rapid speed to correct him. This is not a loan', said the honourable member for Griffith, 'but a grant without strings attached'. What a load of nonsense! Let us take a look at the little green booklet that has been published and see what strings are attached. This is one of the most mystifying pieces of legislation that the Government has ever inflicted upon the Australian people. You would need a legal education to find your way through the document. Many people 1 have consulted in the banking industry, people who deal over the counter with individuals who come in with their housing problems,  say it is virtually like reading an Act of Parliament. This is one of the other criticisms we have made. But the honourable member should not say there are no strings attached. Of course there are strings attached. A person over 36 years of age cannot get it. If the house and land have a total in value in excess of $17,500 the applicant cannot get it. Those are strings. 
The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  also explained the dilatory tactics of the Government in introducing this legislation. He blamed the Opposition. He said we had been delaying the passage of legislation. He blamed the Labor Party for its dilatory tactics, whereas in fact, if the Government had really wanted to introduce this amending Bill earlier it could have done so on that marathon and notable one day sitting on 25th November last year. All it needed to do was to introduce an amending Bill of one or two lines. Do not blame the Labor Party; it is the Government itself which has put off the introduction of this legislation. Much play is being made on the Government side about the boon that the $500 represents. As far as I am concerned it is a boon and there is no doubt about it. Nobody rejects $500. It is an addition to the resources of people buying houses. But that is not the point. If the $500 was intended originally to cope with the problems of financing a house and land, problems faced by young people under 36, surely this should also be its objective today. What we in the Labor Party are saying is not so much that this is not of assistance to married couples but that it is not tackling the problem at its roots. The roots of the problem are in the costs of land which have been escalating for 10 years, the costs of the house itself, the very high interest rate, the lack of finance for buying a home and the difficulty of meeting the deposit gap between the first mortgage and the price one has to pay for house and land. That is what we are dealing with. 
There is one other aspect that we are particularly concerned about and that is the fact that there are still so many people without their own homes. We do not believe this can be rectified overnight. Nobody on this side says that it can. But what we look for are serious plans which show some willingness to tackle the problem. There are still thousands of people who do not have their own homes. I believe some 70% of homes in 1961 were owned or being purchased by the occupier. The figure has not risen much since then and much of the increase since that time in the building of dwellings has been in the construction of flats. This is a point that we on this side are concerned about, too. The comparative stagnation of the figures for home owners and home buyers is the result of the policy  qf  this Government and in particular the result of the lack of policies on the Government's part. 
Just how valuable is the grant of $500? I mentioned it before but I want to go into it further. Actually the honourable member for 
Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has already eroded the arguments of the Government. If the Government claims it was originally aimed at giving relief to the married couples who must meet the high cost of land and housing surely one would expect by the same logic that the rate of the grant would have been varied to cope with the cost flow. However, this is not the case. It was a good election gimmick in 1964 and the grant remains fixed. To show that the contribution of $500 is becoming less meaningful, we should compare the pertinent figures. I would like to be able to quote the cost of a house plus land but unfortunately due to this Government's lack of concern with statistics and its lack of interest in planning in general it does not have figures available on the cost of land. However, we can say that in the period 1964-65 the average cost of a house in Australia without land was $7,880. Of this amount $500 represented a percentage of 6.34. Last year the average cost of a house in Australia was $9,994. So today, taken purely on the average cost of housing, the grant represents 5%. We can see that the value of the grant is being consistently eroded. 
If we had the figures available for the cost of land in 1964-65 and could compare it with the present cost, because the cost of land has been escalating, we would see that the value of the grant is even less than the figure I have given. I do not want to make much play of this point for the real point is that the Government if it is interested in assisting young couples to cope with the high cost of housing, would be dealing with the real problems. What are these? Obviously one of the main problems these days is land prices. We have had a debate on this subject in this House. Honourable members on this side will remember that last week an Opposition member raised the question of land prices for debate as a matter of public importance. The Government was so sensitive that it decided to cut him off and only one honourable member was allowed to speak. One other honourable member from this side tonight has mentioned the cost of land, particularly in Western Australia. We regard it as a national problem. It is not just a State problem or a local problem. It is a national problem that should be dealt with nationally. Unless this problem is tackled the value of the Government's grant will continue to depreciate. The subsidy will be given not to married home buyers themselves but to the speculator and the wide range of financial interests which profit from the home buyers. 
The Government has certainly taken into account that there are rising costs facing the home buyers. This is evident from the fact that the Government has increased the maximum amount on which the grant is available from $15,000 to $17,500. But what is the point of doing this if the Government is not tackling the problem at its roots? How serious have been these increases in land costs? A recent report in February of this year by the Housing Industry Association has stated that over the last 10 years the price of land in Australian mainland cities has risen by 300%. That is a staggering increase in price but the trend has been allowed to continue unchecked and with the connivance of this apathetic Government. It is a staggering increase and just how serious an increase it is can be seen by comparing it with the rise in the consumer prices over this period. While land prices have shot up by 300% the rise in the consumer prices has been 24%. Why has this rise in land prices taken place? One reason is that there has been a scarcity of land. The speculative policy of profiteers who are holding back broad acres for later sale is artificially increasing the demand through scarcity. One other factor has been the general effect of rising costs. Another factor has been the tight zoning of land. But the most important factor of all - this reflects very badly on the relations between Commonwealth, State and local governments - has been that the development of land by private developers using high interest money has replaced the development of land by local or State authorities using low interest money. 
These recent years have seen a gradual changeover from the development of land by municipal and State authorities using public moneys at cheaper interest rates. The burden of providing such services as fully constructed bitumen roads, footpaths, easement drainages, water reticulation, outfall drainage, electricity and park reserves has been thrown upon the private developers who have passed on the costs of their high interest expenditure to the land purchasers. In Melbourne 10 years ago blocks with unmade roads and limited services were available in and around the city for as little as $1,000. Today a reasonable block would cost $4,000 in new suburbs of ordinary standards. The Housing Industry Association has claimed that an extra $2,000 has been put on the price of land by the changeover from development by local and State authorities to development by private authorities. The Housing Industry Association states that it is estimated that for Australia as a whole over $150m annually is paid for roads and services previously provided out of public loan moneys. Why should we be concerned? Perhaps we should not. According to the Government we should just sit back and say that this is the free enterprise economy coming into effect and nothing can be done about it. 
We on this side of the House are concerned for these reasons: Firstly, high land prices are delaying home ownership for many people. They are also a major burden for people on middle incomes and for the family man. High land costs limit the number of houses that need to be built. These high costs are absorbing an ever increasing proportion of housing finance and an ever increasing proportion of investment capital. It is for this reason that  Mr R.  S. Prentice, in a recent article in 'Austfact', said that the price of land was becoming a very serious national problem. What is the Government doing about this problem? Well, it is doing nothing. 
The Minister may look it up and find out for himself. He should have better manners. The Government is doing nothing about this problem. It is finding refuge and retreat again in the old 19th century term of 'laissez-faire' - leave everything alone. What the Government will do is increase the loan available from $15,000 to $17,500. But that does not deal with the problem. 
What should be done? Obviously, at the centre of this problem is the whole crisis in relations between the Commonwealth Government and State and local governments. The starvation of funds from State and local governments has forced them to pass costs on to private developers who in turn are passing the costs back to the purchasers of land. So it is high time that some very serious re-examination was made of financial relationships between the Commonwealth Government on the one hand and State governments and local authorities on the other hand. As far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned, this is a problem of national and serious significance. We would make advances to State governments to enable them to purchase, at a reasonable price, develop and resell land at cost prices to home buyers. The Labor Party would establish a department of housing and urban affairs. 
I have mentioned so far the escalating costs of land. One other important factor is the factor of the rising costs of homes themselves. The evidence of this increase in the cost of housing can be shown by Commonwealth figures. In 1959-60, the average cost of a new home in Australia was $6,433. In 1966-67, the average cost for a new house in Australia was $3,966. By 1968-69, the average cost had risen to $9,994. Now, this is an indication of what has been happening. Statistics have been taken out by one of Australia's largest home construction firms. I mention again my earlier reference to 'Austfact' and the statement by  Mr R.  S. Prentice. The figures which he quoted related to Sydney. They have been taken from a comprehensive range of homes for middle and lower income earners. From 1959 to 1969 the average cost of land had risen by 182%. That was the increase for these areas covered by this large home building firm. In the same period the average cost of a house had increased by 68%. So a very significant increase has occurred in the cost of housing over these 10 years. This increase of 68% should be compared with the 24% that I referred to earlier as the general rise in consumer prices. 
Why has this rise taken place? One factor that I do not want to go into in detail now is the increase in the physical size of houses and the increase in their contents. Australians are becoming used to having bigger, better homes. This certainly has contributed to the increase in price. Of course, a general rise in prices has occurred. Prices normally have been reasonably stable due particularly to competition in the industry and the efficiency of the industry. Prices now are high enough to make the task of buying a home a task of major proportions. This is why we are worried about the present situation. Again, the policy of the Government is to say: 'Well, once again, this is this beautiful blind force of the market coming into operation. We have been used to it for hundreds of years, you know. We are familiar with it and we are used to it. We will dodge the problem.' The Australian Labor Party maintains that if some sort of uniform regulations for the Australian building industry as a whole could be introduced very significant savings could be made on the price of a house. We calculate that some $600 could be saved on the price of an average house. It is about time that uniform building regulations were introduced into Australia. 
I have mentioned two problems so far dealing with the cost of housing and the problems facing married couples when they buy a house. One other problem which I will not go into in very great detail has been the scarcity of capital and the scarcity of loan money available for home buyers, coupled with high interest rates and, in particular, the cost of the second mortgage. I do not think I will go any further into that subject. Suffice it to say, those people in low income groups are in a particularly bad situation as far as finding finance is concerned. There are approximately 1 million Australians who subsist on incomes which are below the poverty line or which are only marginally above it. This is a problem that concerns us very seriously. We are concerned with the problems of middle income groups but we are concerned in particular with those people who, unless they receive assistance to buy homes, cannot get the housing that they must have. 
 That is quite right. The low income, often handicapped, occupants of sub-standard dwellings are not likely ever to be able to purchase or even to rent satisfactory dwellings. State housing authorities have at least 50,000 people on their waiting lists, with waiting lists running from 3 years to 4 years. This is a problem of tremendous proportions and very little is being done to tackle it. This state of affairs contrasts very markedly with what the previous  speaker  said about the high rate of home ownership in Australia. This is the other side of the picture which should be looked at. I tura to the situation of the low income earner who receives between $50 and $60 per week. These people - and I represent many of them in my electorate - find great difficulty in saving a deposit and in obtaining an adequate loan. Many of them are currently in flats. Their problems are not eased by the 25% regulation which takes into account only the breadwinner's basic income. They would need to save at least 3 years or 4 years to get a loan. The problem of these people is something worthy of consideration. 
A very significant growth has occurred in the number of flats being built. Why are these flats being built? Again, this is the result of Government policy - Liberal Government policy - a conservative government policy. It is the result of the high price of land, which this Government has allowed to increase, as well as the rising costs of housing and the high interest rates. Because of these factors many people are finding it impossible to buy a home. They are forced into living in flats, not by preference but simply because of the policies of this Government. Many of these people are on low incomes. They are people who earn $60 per week or below. As I say, I represent very many of them in my electorate. These are the people about whom I am particularly concerned. 
These people face the problem of finding the money to raise a deposit. This is a problem for people living on an income of less than $60 per week. The problem is even greater for people, with children, who are on $40 a week. T know many of these people too. They must first find a deposit and then they must be able to get a loan sufficient for their requirements from a savings bank. Quite often they cannot do so. The shortage of low interest loans is obliging married couples to accept their first mortgage from a building society at at least  7i%.  Then, the deposit gap between the loan and the full price may often be made up by an additional second mortgage or through finance company loans at 13% or 1.4%. The point is this: The loans available from the low interest lenders are becoming difficult for many people to obtain in the first place but, worse than that, they are becoming irrelevant because of the high cost of land and housing. 
There are many comments that I would like to make finally on institutions that provide money for people on lower incomes. One thing that I do wish to object to is the recent withdrawal of concessions from friendly societies. This will mean that the costs of the friendly societies will be increased. These costs again will be passed on to the many people on lower and middle incomes who are seeking housing finance from these friendly societies. I take this opportunity to register my protest at the Government's lack of control over this situation. 
Yes. Perhaps I should say its lack of regulation. 1 am concerned also with the co-operative housing societies. I think that the amount of the loans that these societies provide at the present moment go up to as much as $8,900. I think that it is time that the level of these loans was raised too. In Victoria, as at December last year, these housing societies lent at an interest rate of from 43  %  to 6% . In some cases up to $7,500 is lent and in other cases up to $8,900. The period of loan varies from 26 to 30 years, Obviously they are a vital source of finance for low income earners. Everything should be done to facilitate their services to low income earners. I believe the loans should be boosted to $10,000. This would mean that more money would be necessary for them so that they could still deal wilh the same number, indeed an increasing number, of clients. The Commonwealth Government is in a position, constitutionally, to enable this to be done. 
I shall refer now to credit unions. They are valuable also for low income earners. Figures provided by the Australian Federation of Credit Unions suggest that from 15% to 20% of their loans are for land and housing purchases and about 15% for home improvements. Although they may charge an average interest rate of 10% reducible on their loans, in fact the loans are very cheap for, whereas o'.her institutions may lend for 7i% additional charges by those institutions may boost the interest rate to 10%. I refer to charges for cheques and insurance. I have been informed by representatives of 1 credit union in my electorate that a loan of $1,000 a year over 1 year by a credit union may be as cheap as $60 after adjustments are made. Such charges as insurance are included free in a credit union loan. 
What is the Government's policy towards credit unions? When homes savings grants were first introduced deposits in credit unions were accepted for homes savings grant purposes. Later this eligibility was withdrawn. No reason was given by the Government. Strangely enough credit unions still have not been able to get a reason from the Government as to why their recognition as institutions attracting the homes savings grant has been withdrawn. Even the speech read by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  did not contain any reason as to why credit unions are not accepted. How does the Government deal with these organisations? lt excludes them from the homes savings grant. How does it do this? Well, the minimum loan for three-quarters of housing loans must be $7,000. the Government says. In fact - this is the cruel and cynical aspect of it - State government regulations actually prevent credit unions from lending up to this amount. Of course the Government is aware of this. In Victoria a limit of $3,000 is set on a credit union loan. The maximum loan in New South Wales is $4,000. Therefore automatically the Government has simply legislated them out of eligibility. 
Furthermore, a credit union must lend up to a total of $50,000 for homes to become eligible under the homes savings grant scheme. The limitations on the membership of credit unions prevent this from happening. Many credit unions simply could not reach this figure. In other words. 70% of credit unions are immediately excluded from the scheme. The Government also demands that the maximum interest to be charged by the credit unions must be, according to the Act, 7i% . This figure needs closer examination because many of the regular institutions may actually charge up to 10%. Also, credit unions charge only 10% reducible, and included in the arrangement is free loan protection insurance. This is not provided free by any other lenders. Therefore the Minister actually has drawn up legislation saying that credit unions will be eligible but then admits quite openly that few credit unions could benefit under the regulations. 
I believe that the Government's policy towards credit unions is very unjust and very severe. There are only  3  institutions into which people put their savings as opposed to their investments. They are savings banks, building societies and credit unions. Yet credit unions are the only institutions excluded from eligibility under the homes savings grant scheme. This means that many young married couples who borrow from credit unions in order to buy houses, land or to carry out improvements to their homes are prevented from putting their savings to their own benefit and that of their fellow members. I point out also that credit unions provide a very valuable service, particularly to low income earners, in the form of second mortgages. It has become increasingly difficult for young married couples to pay for a house. Credit unions are playing an increasingly vital role in providing second mortgages and loans to enable people to furnish and equip their homes. 
I point out to the Government, as have the credit unions, that they have no wish to enter substantially into long term financing of housing. One honourable member earlier this evening said that the credit unions had not clarified their attitude as to how they would develop in this sphere. One thing that they have clarified to the Government is that they do not intend to enter into the long term financing of housing. They are satisfied with what is being done by building societies. Indeed, they contribute to building societies by investing their surplus funds in them. 
I believe that the Government should redraft this Bill, so far as it concerns credit unions, in accordance with the amendments put forward by the Labor Party. It should recognise the credit unions as acceptable institutions to attract the homes savings grant. Why should it do this? To do so would increase the savings deposited with them and would also increase the funds available to building societies for long term housing loans. If the Government is concerned about the availability of finance to the people on low and middle incomes then it should show its sincerity by redrafting this Bill. 

 Mr ROBINSON (Cowper) [9.151- The Homes Savings Grants Bill provides for an increase from $15,000 to $17,500 in the limit to the value of a home which may attract a Commonwealth homes savings grant. It implements the Government's undertaking, given at the last general election, to raise this limit. In addition, of course, it contains other amendments to the Act. I believe that this is progressive legislation. It is evidence of the Government's determination to carry forward a practical policy. 
This evening we have been listening to a very wide ranging debate. One wonders whether members of. the Opposition believe that all the housing problems in Australia can be solved merely by talking about them during discussion of a specific proposition without adopting a general approach which would permit improvements and alterations in those areas about which they have found reason to complain. I believe that the contrary is the case. 
I want to emphasise the real purpose of this legislation. The underlying purpose of the introduction of the homes savings grant scheme was to encourage people to save. It was designed to give them an incentive to build or buy their own homes. The record of accomplishment in this direction is seen in the remarkable extent to which this scheme has been called upon by young people in Australia. Since 1964 a total amount of $71m has been expended to benefit 164,000 applicants. When the scheme was first proposed by the then leader of the Government,  Sir Robert  Menzies, few of us believed that it would develop to be such a great encouragement and incentive. If by alterations and extensions we were to lose the main principle of the scheme, or if we were to change the basis upon which it has been founded, then I believe we would lose its value. 
There are many problems in housing in Australia and the Government has not denied this. State governments also have not denied it. However, there have been great accomplishments. The provision of housing in Australia has been running at a record level, due to the policies of this very house conscious Government. It is house conscious to the point that it has shown that the Opposition again is way out in any proposition it has advanced to outstrip the Government in attracting the support of the electors. There is no doubt that at the time of its inception this homes savings grant scheme created the kind of incentive which was absolutely essential if we were to avoid a very obvious pitfall which faced the nation. [Quorum formed]. 
When I was interrupted I was referring to the fact that there was growing affluence among young people in the community when the homes savings grant scheme was introduced. It was necessary to encourage them to see the wisdom of putting their money into housing rather than motor cars or something else that would not in the long run produce for them the security of a home or the opportunity to have a home of their own and to get away from the very thing which over the years the Labor Party had advocated - a situation in which too many people were renting homes; too many people did not have a stake in the country and did not have a home they could call their own. 
If we were to analyse closely the impact of this scheme we would find that it has had a great influence in bringing about a higher level of home ownership. This has happened despite the ever present incentives for young people to channel their money in some other direction, such as attractive hire purchase proposals and attractive propositions offered to them day by day by commercial interests to put their money somewhere else. I believe that this is a fundamental and important consideration. It is one which the Opposition has chosen not even to recognise. On the other hand the Opposition has chosen again to throw down the gauntlet to this Government, alleging that it has failed to find the resources for homes; that it has failed to grapple with the problem of rising land costs; that it has failed to produce a solution to what is an inescapable situation in a growing economy. I would be the first to say that I would like to see land prices stabilised; that I would like to see building costs stabilised. But I want to know how these things may be achieved. 
On another occasion in this chamber the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  had an answer to the problem. I think every Australian should be reminded of what he said. This was not the first time he has advanced such a solution. He said there could be no solution while the Government continued in office; that capitalism could never do anything about the problem. What he meant was that the answer is Socialism. Having seen something of what happens in a Socialist state I can tell the right honourable gentleman that he is far from the mark. He had an opportunity a year or so ago to see for himself what happens in a Socialist state. He visited the Soviet Union. If his impressions of that visit are that there is a better level of housing in Russia than there is in Australia he must have had his eyes closed while he was in that part of the world. To compare housing in Russia with housing in Australia is like comparing chalk with cheese. Whether it be a Socialist state or a capitalist community of the kind we are proud to continue to try to develop, pressures will exist. They exist simply because the population of the world is increasing. There is a clamour for a rise in standards of living. This is commendable. The Government has done a tremendous job to meet all these demands and it is wrong for the Opposition to claim otherwise. 
Let me turn briefly to the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The Opposition has moved that the Bill should be redrafted to bring credit unions wholly within the scope of the homes savings grant scheme. If we are to ensure a continuing flow of capital for home building surely we must ensure that the preponderance of funds going into savings accounts is channelled into that sector of the financial structure of the country that will yield most for the purpose of financing home building. If the credit unions are able to show their capacity to meet this requirement, the legislation gives them the opportunity to participate. I am in no way opposed to the operation of credit unions. I believe that they are a very desirable and very useful medium for encouraging people to participate in a particular kind of 'financial adventure, if I may so term it, but it would be a sorry day if credit unions were to become the only source of saving that the people had. Credit unions have failed to recognise this factor. I hope they will see the wisdom of expanding their operations so that they may qualify under this legislation, but certainly there is no justification for accepting the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
I wish to raise a particular point that is of special interest to me, affecting as it does my electorate. I doubt whether any credit union located in a country area would have the capacity to develop to the stage where it could comply with the provisions of this legislation. So the matter of the autonomy of the credit union or of its branches arises. When 1 recall some of- the very caustic statements published in 'Quest', the official organ of the credit unions, I wonder whether it would be a good thing for the country if credit unions were to operate collectively because there was certainly a very strong political flavour about some of the expressions in 'Quest' prior to the last elections. At that time the credit unions, in their efforts to get the Government to act in the interests of their members, adopted the policy of telling their members flatly not to vote for anybody except a member of the Labor Party. I wonder whether that policy represented the views of individual members of credit unions. I wonder whether a publication such as 'Quest' has a right to express a view of that kind on behalf of contributors to credit unions. I am sure that it does not. There is quite a difference between the right of freedom of expression and the use of contributors' funds for purposes of the kind I have described. 1 would suggest that those who exercise an executive role in credit unions should look at the situation. If they put their house in order in some respect they may be able to convince the Government that there is a little more justification in their claim than what we have before us at present would suggest. 
I pass on to the one other point raised in the amendment, of which (here are 3 sections. 1 refer to the backdating of the provisions of this Bill to 31st December 1967. We would all be delighted to be able to do that but there must be some responsibility in terms of budgeting. There must be some consideration of what is practical from an administrative point of view. It has always been the practice to give some indication of Government policy. If it is within the competency of whoever gives an undertaking to date legislation from a time which is related to the undertaking, that is provided in the legislation. It is, I believe, quite proper for the legislation to be retrospective to October 1969 but certainly it is just a little beyond what would be practical to suggest that it be dated back to December 1967. 
The Bill also provides for the resolving of some anomalies which have existed in the legislation. These are progressive improvements for the operation of the scheme and I commend them because I have experienced in my own work as a member some of the disabilities in matters raised by constituents. The Bill will clear aside irksome difficulties which some applicants have experienced. But what I think is essential is for there to be at ali times an effort to encourage people to realise the value of the scheme and to take advantage of it - not to leave them in doubt and not to try to sow the seeds of dissatisfaction in the minds of young people who will make use of this very useful and attractive incentive towards owning their own home. 
I hope much of what has been said by the Opposition tonight will not deter young people from taking advantage of this very useful means of improving their opportunity to become the owners of a home, to build a place for themselves and for their families and to become a really positive part of the Australian nation - to become stake-holders, so to speak, in a material way in this nation of ours. If the Opposition believes that it ought to be any other way, if it believes there is some other scheme which would do a better job, we would be glad to know of it and we would be glad to hear it described. I think it was the honourable member for Perth who said that we should step in and authorise - I do not know in what constitutional way this was to be done - the States to buy up all available land, to develop it and then make it available for housing. The first question is: Who would pay the bill? From where would the resources come? How would we in the long run find a solution to the tremendous drain on our national resources if we were to do this? I put it to the House that such a proposition has no merit in point of practical application. If we look at what Labor administrations have done in the States in the past we can see that any attempt to socialise land has in fact been the main springboard ultimately to cause disastrous inflationary tendencies in land values. If a government takes charge of available lands - large sections of areas suitable for sub-division for housing - the immediate pressure that goes on all other available land is absolutely astronomical. We saw it in New South Wales under a Labor administration. We saw the disastrous effects of it which are still being felt, and the only sensible approach that has been possible since that time is the current proposition of the State Government to bring in a measure which will ensure that developers will in future add to the cost of sub-dividing the cost of development in terms of seeing to it that there is a responsibility shouldered by the developer to see that the land is put into a suitable state for use before it is sold. This will tend to curb the inflationary tendencies. But it is very late in the day for the reason that so much damage has been done under a Labor administration. 
There are many other facets of housing which can be debated but the purpose of the House in considering this measure is a fairly restricted one and I believe that having spoken of these aspects that are important on the precise provisions of the Bill this is all that is appropriate at this time. I commend the Bill to the House and express the hope that it will be just the forerunner of further liberalisation of this scheme as the years go on. 
lt looks as though it will be my inevitable fate in the future to follow the honourable for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and listen to his- 
Due to factors beyond my control, I assure the honourable member. lt seems also my fate to have to listen to the numerous epistolary references which the honourable member for Griffith frequently makes. Nevertheless, I want to make some reference to aspects of the National Health Bill that is now before the HouseFor years it has been obvious to us in the Australian Labor Party and to many observers in academic circles, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of people who have had to bear the costs of the existing health insurance system, that the system is out of date, costly and inefficient. Under pressure from the Labor Party the Government was with the greatest reluctance forced to inquire into the existing system of health insurance. The Nimmo Committee was established. On this Committee I would like to say 2 things. Firstly, the Government tied its hands in such a way that its findings could only be within the framework of the reforms to the existing complexities of the obsolete so called voluntary health insurance scheme. The Committee was not allowed to make recommendations on alternative methods of financing health insurance. Had it been allowed to do so, I am quite sure that it would have recommended that a system along the lines that the Labor Party has proposed should be established. 
The second thing that I want to point out is that the report was the most far-reaching and extensive indictment of the system which the Liberals have long claimed to be the best in the world. Yet of all the recommendations that the Committee made the Government has seen fit to introduce only a few. Some of the major recommendations have been accepted; others have been rejected. But has the Government acted out of concern for the taxpayer, the contributor to health insurance and the patient? Hardly. It has been compelled to act purely because of the popularity of Labor's scheme last year which would have rendered the Government extinct had it not. What the Government has done has been to patch up an occasional crack and chink here and there, lt has done this because it knows that the majority of the Australian people - as proven by the gallup polls - favour Labor's scheme. The Government has preferred to hold on to an out of date, expensive and inefficient system purely on ideological grounds. It is not preserving it on economic grounds because it knows only too well, as economists have proven, that Labor's system gives better health insurance at a price lower than that of the present system. 
In making these changes the Government has acted either with gross ignorance of the costs involved or in deceit. Massive amounts of money are to be spent to patch up the system. The amounts are far in advance of what the Government told the people at election time last year. The Government claims that, particularly in its stormy dealings with the doctors, its first concern is for the interests of the patient. It is a good story, but the Government's lack of conviction in its own propaganda is only too well attested by the frequency with which the Minister has found it necessary to reiterate the theme that its first concern is for the patient. This system of health insurance affects the patient not only as a patient but also as a taxpayer and as a contributor to health benefits, to which he is compelled to contribute if he is to gain the benefit of his own taxation. Let us examine the additional costs which the patient both as a taxpayer and as a contributor to health insurance is now compelled to pay to bolster up this obsolete edifice. Last year the only claim that the Government would make at election time was that an additional SI 6m would be necessary. The actual cost is at least an additional S58m. This additional $58m, a figure far in excess of what the Government  stated  last year to the electors, is made up of an additional $34m in taxation and an additional $24m in contributions. The patient as a taxpayer must pay an additional $34m. This $34m has been worked out on the basis of the common fees which the Australian Medical Association has set out for the Government and on the basis of the Government's promise that no patient would have to pay more than 80c for a visit to a surgery, no more than $1.20 for a doctor's visit to his home and no more than $5 for other surgical operations. According to the figures available to me this additional sum of $34m means that the Commonwealth benefits will rise by 66% over the estimated 1969-70 levels. 
So far 1 have been speaking about the patient with whose welfare the Government states it is primarily concerned as a taxpayer, but the patient is also a contributor to insurance and as such he must pay an additional $24m. This consists of the additional cost involved in changing the complicated system of contribution schedules for medical insurance, in order to deal with the costs of insurance the Government is adopting the amazing instrument of actually raising costs. The additional $24m consists, firstly, of paying for the privilege of being forced to pay the highest possible amount for insurance. In other words, those on the lower and medium schedules at present must pay an additional $6m while those already on the highest contribution schedules must pay an additional $ 1 8m for the increases in the cost of their contributions. I ask honourable members: In view of the outstanding figure that has now become evident to members, in comparison with the small figure which the Government announced last year, is this the way to prevent costs from rising? ls this the way to maintain costs - to peg costs - of health insurance? I also ask: Why, after the election, are such figures evident? Why is it only after the election? What happened to the $16m figure? Does anyone seriously believe that the Government can be trusted in financial matters when it either does not know the cost of its own proposals or chooses to conceal them from the voting public? 
One of the major grounds for opposition to this National Health Bill is the injustice of the system of private health insurance as we have bad it in Australia for so long and essential I think to the injustice of the system is the fact that people do not pay according to their ability to pay but instead they pay flat rates. This is regressive taxation and it can be lumped in the same category, 1 think, as school fees, municipal rates and sales tax. O'n those grounds it is especially objectionable; it contradicts the whole principle of equitable distribution of the nation's wealth along the lines of progressive taxation. 
Under the present system, unreformed as it is, it is possible for a wealthy person on a high income to insure at the highest possible rate to get the best possible private ward accommodation at a lower price than the lower income earner pays for public war. accommodation. There, I think, is one of the main objections we have to the scheme. The amount that one pays in the first place is a flat rate and by the time taxation deductions are taken out of it the person on the lower income is actually paying more for his health insurance than the person on the higher income. Incidentally, costs being as they are he is going to be forced to pay only the highest amounts - this has been the case in the past - and he is going to get less in return. To make these changes the Government is going to occasion especially high costs for the individual contributor. In order to reduce the multiplicity of hospital schedules the Government &gt;s going to have only 3. At present they have not yet been negotiated so we are not in a position to say bow much they are going to cost. But by the way these things have been going so far in the escalating cost of health insurance it is pretty clear that people are going to be forced to again pay higher amounts for their hospital insurance. As far as medical insurance is concerned it is quite clear already that the contributor is going to have to pay very high costs indeed. 
The Nimmo Committee looked at the complexity of the system of health insurance and saw a vast number of contribution schedules that had to be paid. The Committee suggested that economies could be made by rationalising the whole system so that there would only be one contribution schedule. That is not a bad idea. But what is the effect of it? All of those people who at present can afford to pay only the very low schedules - and those that could afford to pay only the medium ones - are now in a position where they are going to be forced by government action to pay the highest possible possible contributions. That, in itself, is not the end of the story, because as honourable members will know by now the cost of the maximum contribution will also rise. I understand that the cost will vary in the new maximum schedule for medical benefits and will rise between 10c and 15c. This will mean that in Victoria everyone will be forced to pay the highest possible contribution and on top of that they will have to pay an extra 10c. This could mean an extra cost of 30c to 40c a week. 
Exactly what the cost to the individual is going to be at present we cannot say. We arc estimating. But what is quite clear from the figures available to us now is that there is going to be a total cost of $24m born by contributors throughout Australia for their medical insurance. This is the Government's answer to the problems raised by the Nimmo Committee last year. The Government's answer to the problem of high costs is to jack them up even higher. Honourable members can imagine for themselves just how inequitable and how unbearable that is going to be for people who are in the middle income group. One can omit people on lower incomes for the time being because they are going to get some sort of relief. The situation of the rising costs for medical benefits I think should be considered in connection with the statement of the Nimmo Committee which was made on the costs of medical insurance. Examining the situation the Nimmo Committee said that already people are paying as much as they can and as much as they are going to be willing to pay. Yet in this situation the Government has come forward with a new medical insurance schedule which will force everyone to pay a higher amount at an increased rate. 
The Nimmo Committee, in chapter 15, paragraph 15.2, at page 55 of its report stated: 
. subject to future increases which will become necessary from time to time as costs and incomes rise, health insurance contributions are already as high as most people are prepared to pay. In reaching this conclusion, we have been influenced by the extent of non-insurance, underinsurance and the magnitude of lapses which are at present undermining the effectiveness of the scheme. 
So the Nimmo Committee has already looked at the situation in Australia and has said that the people simply could not afford to and would not pay it. It made this conclusion on the basis of the fact that so many people were either not insured or were under-insured. To make this point clear the Committee stated it twice. In finding No. 9, on page 9 of the report, the Committee said: 
Health insurance contributions are in present circumstances as high as most people are prepared to pay and as many people can afford to pay. 
That is the situation. What reason can we have for believing that many people will not be priced out of the insurance system? The whole aim of this system surely is to make sure that all people are covered. Yet with rising costs like this it seems likely to me that costs are going to become so high that people will be forced out. 
One aspect of the Government's legislation of particular concern to me is the measure that the Government introduced to deal with the costs of health insurance presently being borne by the lower income earner. These are the people who are most likely to need assistance. They are the people most likely to be ill. They are the people who will find it most difficult to bear the cost of health insurance and also to bear the cost of hospitalisation and treatment by doctors. There are suggestions in the Nimmo Committee's report which can be classed as being generous towards the lower income earner. They are certainly comparable to the suggestions on how to relieve the cost to the lower income earner that were put forward by the Australian Labor Party. 1 want to compare the Australian Labor Party's suggestions on relieving the cost to the lower income earner with the suggestions put forward by the Nimmo Committee and finally to examine the proposals that the Government has introduced. I think honourable members will see that the reforms that are being introduced by the Government are nowhere near comparable to those which are being put forward by the Labor Party or even by the committee which the Government set up to advise it on these matters. 
The basis of the Labor Party's scheme is that everybody will pay an amount for bis insurance which will be based upon his income. The principle will be his ability to pay. The person insured will receive 100% cover, a cover for hospitalisation and at least 85% cover for his doctor's bills. We looked at the situation of the lower income earners, the people about whom the Labor Party is concerned. We decided that the only way we could give justice to lower income earners in Australia, of whom there are thousands, would be to ensure that those who had a gross income of $45 a week should get an entirely free cover. So free insurance would go to each lower income earner with a wife and family of 2 children and on a wage of $45 gross per week. Our system took into account the fact that the lower income earner has a family, and I will show later that the Government's proposition does not. For every child above the 2 children in the case of a man with a gross income of $45 an additional $3 could be earned without affecting entitlement. This would mean that a family with 6 children could have a gross income of $57 and still get free insurance. This would cover ali of their public ward accommodation in a hospital and at least 85% of doctors' bills. 
The people who would just miss out in this category I am referring to would then pay taxation for their health insurance according to their means. The people who would just miss out would have the lowest taxation in Australia. This would gradually rise according to the increases in income. So our system would be based upon income of $45 per week for a man, wife and 2 children, allowing him an extra $3 income according to each child above those 2. People who get more than that would have their contributions graduated according to income. The Nimmo report's recommendations are very much like our own. The report put forward a very generous idea of assistance which took into account the needs of families. The Nimmo Committee made 2 suggestions, and I want to emphasise these. The first related to exemptions and concessions for health insurance. Under the Nimmo Committee's proposals a low income earner with a wife and 2 children could earn the minimum wage of $42.50 and could then be allowed an extra $4 a week for each child. That would mean that if he received the basic wage - these are the people whom we must consider - he could have an income in total of $58.50. If that man increased his earnings by $2 two-thirds of his insurance would be paid by the Commonwealth. If his income was $4 above the minimum wage the Commonwealth would pay on-third of his insurance. The Nimmo Committee was giving consideration to the size of the family. After all, this is one of the most important aspects of relief to the low income earner. 
The second aspect with which the Nimmo Committee was concerned was the medical bill itself. The Nimmo Committee suggested that as these low income earners had such a low income, necessitating the provision of exemptions and deductions for them, they also should be exempted from paying their medical bills. I propose to quote from the Nimmo Committee's report and 1 would ask honourable members to bear these quotations in mind because it is not simply a matter of being exempted from insurance contributions but also a matter of meeting bills. In paragraph 5.11 of its report the Committee stated: 
Since the reason for subsidising persons on low incomes is their inability to pay the premiums we do not think that any person oh whose behalf the subsidy is paid should be required to pay the patient's contribution of $1 for each medical service. 
At thai time the Nimmo Committee was thinking in terms of the contributor's paying $1 for each medical service. The point is that the Committee suggested that these people should be exempted also from paying their medical bills. This was a very generous and liberal attitude towards the lower income earners. 
What has the Government done? I think that the system it has introduced is a parody. The Government's system does not even come close to the suggestions of the Committee which it set up, nor does it tackle the problems affecting the low income earner. The Government's system is vastly inferior. For example, it takes no account of the size of the family. As far as I can see - I am prepared to stand corrected - the Government's legislation does not exempt the low income earner from the high cost of medical bills, on which the Nimmo Committee reported. Also, the extra sums which the low income earner is allowed to earn under the Government's scheme are quite unrealistic. For instance, if you have an income of $42.50  a  week the Government very generously offers to pay the whole cost of your insurance but again it takes no acount of the size of your family. If your income increases to $3 above the minimum wage the Government will pay two-thirds of your insurance. If your income increases to  $6  above the minimum wage the Government will pay one-third of your insurance. The thing to bear in mind is that the Government's scheme ignores the concept of family and is nowhere near as good as Labor's proposal or the Nimmo Committee's proposals. 
Another matter to which I would refer is the inequitable aspect of tax deductions. Under this legislation a person earning $48.50 a week and paying his own contributions will have to pay the highest  Tate  of insurance because of the flat rate payment and because of the way in which tax deductions vary according to income. As you know, the lower your income the smaller your tax rebate for insurance premiums. The higher your income the greater your rebate from the Taxation Branch. Another aspect which it is important to  note  is that the Government is again leaving everything to chance. Suppose that many of these people  do  not happen to know about the provisions of this scheme, notwithstanding the extravagance and munificence of the Government in spending thousands of dollars to distribute booklets to everybody who will be involved. There will still be many people who will not find out that these services are available. These people could later find, when suddenly faced with the need for insurance, that they should have applied earlier. It will be the same old problem  of  people not being insured as has appeared in the past. 
I think I  am  correct in saying - I hope to be told if I  am  wrong - that the Government's promise that the patient will have to pay no more than $5 for a major operation refers only to surgical operations. A patient may be forced to stay in hospital for a very extended period because of a condition that is not surgical in nature. If he does not undergo surgery  he  will have to pay every bill presented by the doctor. The charges involved in such a case will be very heavy, and will be particularly oppressive on a low income earner. Such a person will have to rely on  a  very small sickness benefit. He will still have to meet his family's day to day bills as well as the cost of his stay in hospital. This is an aspect that should be examined. 
The system of health insurance being maintained in Australia is very costly. Although the Government has taken some action under this Bill I do not think that what it has done will seriously tackle the causes of high costs in the health insurance system. It is a fact that for every $4 which a contributor pays to a health insurance association $1 is taken up in the cost of administration and in maintaining the association's reserves. To some extent this situation is being tackled because some action is being taken to cope with the reserves, but how this action will affect the cost of health insurance is yet to be seen. In this case I think the proof of the pudding will be in the eating and we will sit and wait. 1 do not think the Government is seriously tackling the causes of high health insurance costs. The Nimmo Committee reported that one of the main factors Influencing costs was the administration of the private organisations that provide insurance. In particular the Committee referred to the extent of costly and extravagant competition amongst the health insurance associations and it recommended that this situation should be tackled by a concept of regionalisation which would limit the large open funds to operating only in certain regions. In its report the Nimmo Committee made a fundamental criticism of the cost of health insurance with which the Government has not yet dealt. In paragraph I J .7 the Committee reported: 
The larger open funds in New South Wales and Victoria have had appreciably higher expense rates than the Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia. The evidence points strongly to the conclusion that one of the main reasons for this is the abuse of competition that has developed in New South Wales and parts of Victoria. Funds have sought to win a larger share of the available membership by offering excessive commissions and inducements to agents to promote transfers of members from one organisation to another; by establishing branch offices and cash payment centres in areas already well serviced by other organisations; and by expensive advertising. It is doubtful whether this type of activity is winning many new members to the scheme. It is certainly a very costly use of the contributions of persons who are already members. 
That is a fundamental criticism but one which has not been tackled in any serious way in this Bill. The Nimmo Committee suggested a concept of regionalisation, but its suggestion has been ignored in the Bill. 
One final important point to which  I  refer - this was dealt with by the Nimmo Committee - is the inadequacy of facilities for the aged ill in Australia.  1  have in my electorate many institutions which provide accommodation and hospital services for the aged ill.  1  have two of the biggest in Victoria - the Alexandria and the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged. Both these institutions are very much dependent upon co-operation between the State Government and the Commonwealth Government. They have long waiting lists. Unless money is forthcoming from the State Government or the Commonwealth Government, or both of them, the waiting list will continue to increase, as has already been shown. People requiring accommodation in these homes for the aged will not be able to get it. They will be forced back onto the private homes and hospitals which are being run at fantastic profits. 
This situation simply is not good enough. There is one deplorable factor about it. Last year this Government introduced the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Bill. It did not have much to offer, lt was not very significant at all when one considers how great is the problem of accommodating people in homes and hospitals for the aged. However it was something. I condemn this Government on the ground that it required matching grants from the States. This principle is wrong because it means that the State Government has to match the grants for capital expenditure and, in addition, has to face the problem of providing maintenance costs, which are big costs. I believe the Commonwealth is wrong in requiring matching grants from State governments. But also equally deserving of condemnation was the rejection of the Commonwealth's assistance by the Victorian Government. 
This mutual hostility between the Commonwealth and Victoria has continued since last year. There is no evidence yet, as far as I am aware, that the conflict between the 2 parties to the dispute has been resolved. I have seen no news of it. I think there is a question about this on the notice paper but as far as I know no answer has been supplied. The result of  Sir Henry  Bolte's refusal to accept this kind of financial assistance is that additional accommodation for hospitals and homes for the aged throughout Victoria is not forthcoming. Assistance was offered and I think  Sir 
Henry Bolte should have accepted it and used the money to build additional accommodation. This refusal affects the 2 homes and hospitals in my electorate because both of them had projects well under way. They are awaiting resolution of this conflict. I think it is time the conflict was resolved. Both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs said that these were matters requiring urgent action by the Commonwealth and State governments. Both parties to the dispute are equally guilty and it is about time both got down to resolving the problem. 
I have referred to some aspects of this National Health Bill. I do not think it deals seriously with the problem of the cost of insurance against ill health because it still relies upon the antiquated concept of the so-called voluntary principle. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science: In view of the fact that all of the other States have this year increased the fees charged in universities and colleges of advanced education, can the Minister say why Victoria, alone of all the States, has deferred for the time being its projected 20% increase in university fees and the still larger increase which is contemplated for fees in colleges of advanced education? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of the total Australian wool clip has been sold by (a) auction and (b) private treaty in each of the last 5 years in each of the States. 
What percentage of the Australian wool clip which is exported has been sold by (a) auction and (b) private treaty in each of the last 5 years. 
Today is Grievance Day and I have a very serious grievance that I want to raise in the House on behalf of my electorate. The grievance refers to the fact that it has taken so long for the Bolte Government in Victoria to get down to building, for the people of the Bendigo electorate and outside it, the psychiatric facilities that have been promised for a long time. The need for a psychiatric centre and hospital in Bendigo was recognised as long ago as 1957 by the mental hygiene authority of Victoria, lt is now 1970 - 13 years later - and we still have no guarantee as to when the hospital itself will be opened. Statements are being trotted out by the Government suggesting that the psychiatric centre will be opened, but these statements need to be treated with the gravest suspicion, because it is clear that the hospital itself will not be opened for some time. It will be confronted by serious difficulties. What we will have is a day centre opened. There has been some very serious bungling in the administration of the Mental Health Authority and other departments that have been concerned with it in the development of this psychiatric centre at Bendigo. 
Just to show honourable members the dimensions of the costs involved I point out that the estimated cost of the psychiatric centre, the hospital and the works at Bendigo has been put down at $3m, and we still have no guarantee as to when the full facilities, which the people of the Bendigo electorate are entitled to, can be properly used. This can be aptly described as a monument of maladministration by the Bolte Government of Victoria. I stress that 1 am making no reflection whatever on employees in Public Service departments who are involved in the establishment of the day centre. 1 believe that the fault lies directly with the Government. At present the Government is saying that the psychiatric day centre at Bendigo will be opened this year but, as I said earlier, I think that this statement needs to be looked at closely. 
For a long time there has been a great need for expanded psychiatric facilities in Bendigo. Other regional centres outside the metropolis have had them for some years. Bendigo has had to wait until it is among the last. Other places like Traralgon, Ararat, Ballarat and Beechworth have had these facilities while my electorate has had to wait. The psychiatric centre that 1 am talking about is very important to my electorate because it will service such places as Bendigo, Heathcote and Castlemaine in my electorate, and other places outside it such as Swan Hill and Euchuca. These people have been denied this service, which is an essential public service, for far too long. While the need for this service has been ignored mentally ill people have been leaving my electorate to go to Ballarat. 
The need has been recognised for many years, but it seems that for the time being the only facility we can expect in Bendigo is a day centre. There will be 144 beds whan the hospital section for resident patients comes into operation. I point out that originally in 1957 the Mental Health Authority said that there was an urgent need for a psychiatric hospital in Bendigo. In 1963 the Honourable Clive Stoneham, a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly, reported that this had been stated. In January 1964 the Victorian Minister for Health said that a psychiatric hospital would start with a first stage of 400 beds. I have been informed that actually the original proposals were for 600 beds. Anyway, in 1964 the Minister for Health said that he hoped work would begin in June 1964. In 1966 the 'Age' reported that the  chairman  of the Mental Health Authority had stated that a new psychiatric centre would be built in 2 years, the first stage to include an early treatment unit of 48 beds and 2 rehabilitation wards to accommodate 98 patients and ancillary services. The second stage would add 132 beds and the third stage 144 beds. What is the situation today? It looks as though it will be limited to 144 beds - 48 for early treatment and 96 for rehabilitation patients, lt appears to me that the Government has scrapped entirely the project for 6 geriatric wards of 268 beds. I am particularly concerned with this because there are many aged people in Bendigo who should have these facilities available to them. In other words, what 1 am saying is that the development of the psychiatric hospital at Bendigo has been very severely restricted. 
I should like now to make some reference to the stages of building. In 1957 it was said that there was an urgent need. In 1964 the Victorian Minister for Health said that he hoped that building would commence in June 1964. In 1966 the  chairman  of the Mental Health Authority said that the facility would be built in 2 years. 1 should like to quote from a report entitled Menial Health Services in the State of Victoria Controlled or Supported by Mental Health Authority', written in January 1967. lt states: 
New Psychiatric Services In Progress. Bendigo Psychiatric Hospital construction scheduled to commence in 1%6 with an estimated 2 year time of building operation. 
In other words, it should have been completed in 1968. I refer now to the actual stages of the buildings, and I stress the extraordinary time it has taken for the work to begin and to be completed. In approximately 1965 the ground was cleared, in approximately 1966 water was put on, and in approximately 1968 the buildings were commenced. At the present stage the main buildings for accommodation of patients have been completed, but the problem is that there has been a gross blunder somewhere along the line because accommodation for staff was not built simultaneously with the main buildings. Therefore patients from Echuca, Swan Hill, Bendigo, Castlemaine and Heathcote have had to be sent to Ballarat or other places while facilities at Bendigo have been lying unused because staff accommodation was not ready at the same time as the main buildings were completed. Patients could have been occupying beds in Bendigo 6 months ago, but this cannot be done because of blunders in administration. I stress the desperate need for accommodation, especially as patients from my electorate are being sent to Ballarat. 
The question is whether the psychiatric hospital will be opened this year. The 
Victorian Government is now trying to head off criticisms to which it is very vulnerable. The Government is promising to open the day centre this year, but while an official opening may take place - and I think it will - I point out that because of bungling administration and red tape rarely has a psychiatric hospital been opened on time in Victoria. I believe that the full extent of existing facilities will not be available this year. It is incredible that a project costing S3m, when there is an urgent need for beds, should be so delayed. The Government cannot promise that these beds will be available this year. 
The day hospital will be available. 1 am confident that this will be successful. I believe that the staff is already doing a first class job. However, their functions will be strictly limited. They will cater for day patients only. Those patients will attend for treatment, entertainment, therapy and so forth during the day and then go home. The day centre will certainly be an asset. I am concerned about the hospital because I think that it will be faced with serious problems in getting staff. There has definitely been no move so far lo get staff for this year. Vacancies have not yet been gazetted. The stuffing situation generally in Victoria for nurses and psychiatric staff is not good. Within the Mental Health Authority there is a 28.5% undercutting of trained psychiatrists. There is a 20% understaffing of such professional staff as speech therapists, social workers and psychologist. There is a 25% understaffing of all psychiatric nursing staff, trained and untrained. The figures have been deteriorating progressively since 1965. The situation in Bendigo is that there is a shortage of nursing staff. I instance the position at the Bendigo Base Hospital at which extra accommodation costin" S3 14.000 has been provided. Il will be difficult for the Bendigo Base Hospital to get staff for the extra wing and this may mean that the hospital will not be able fully to use those wards. 
I believe that the psychiatric centre will have to bring in from outside trained and experienced nursing staff as a nucleus for teaching young nursing recruits. This will probably have to be done at the expense of other areas. I here is a problem in getting training recognised by the Nursing Council of Victoria which recognises only postgraduate trainees - those who have done general nursing training. Traralgon has had some trouble in this respect. It may be necessary for the Bendigo psychiatric hospital to send trainees, who are starting their nursing course, to Melbourne for training. I stress that I am keen to see this hospital go ahead. It is very important for the people of my electorate to have the general range of health facilities provided. What angers me is that it has taken so long for this work to be commenced and completed. I repeat, it involves the expenditure of $3m, but because of blundering and bungling by the Bolte Government the people still cannot be guaranteed when they will gain the full benefit of facilities for which they have paid in taxes. This is a disgraceful situation. 
I want to deal with two matters concerning education that are vital to Victorian people and in particular to country students in that State. The first one I wish to consider is the way in which we are dealing with external studies for country students. At present there is a State election campaign in progress in Victoria and two proposals are being offered as remedies for the chronic inadequacies in the staffing in country schools. The first proposal is the one put forward first in time on behalf of the Australian Labor Party by the Victorian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Clyde  Holding. That is the proposal to establish Victoria's fourth university, which has long been overdue, in a regional centre. This proposal was for a regional university outside the capital city. There is every reason why this should be established. Other States have universities outside of the capital cities. I think that New South Wales has 3 universities outside its capital city and that Queensland has one outside of the capital city. There is every reason why such institutions should be established outside of the capital city in Victoria. That is what the Labor Party proposes to do. 
Most importantly Labor's proposal in Victoria is that it will concentrate upon coordinating adult education, and predominant amongst its tasks will be the provision of external studies. We have seen a gradual dissolution, a gradual winding-up of external courses in Victorian universities. There is almost nothing left at Melbourne's university. I believe there are about 100 students at that university. This is Labor's proposal. It is going to expand those facilities so that we can provide our large scale external courses, particularly for country teachers, to give them the qualifications that at present they cannot get without going to the metropolitan area. 
I have stressed Labor's policy in that respect. The Liberal Party in Victoria has come forward with a cheap immitation of Labor's policy. It has seen just how attractive in country areas Labor's policy is on a regional university. All that the Liberals have offered to do is this: Provide $100,000 for taking on additional external courses. While the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is at the table, I would like to ask him whether such a request for assistance from the Commonwealth has been put to him by the Minister for Education in Victoria. The Liberal Party policy starts off with $100,000 - a princely sum no doubt to deal with a problem which has reached disaster proportions in Victoria. What exactly will $100,000 do? I want to emphasise this very strongly: 1 believe this sum of money will not even scratch the surface of the problem. I point out that in New South Wales there are approximately 5,000 external students. In Queensland there are approximately 2,000 external students. However in Victoria there are approximately 100 remnants  of  the old days when external courses were given on a large scale basis. Just look at those figures and see all that is being provided for Victoria. At present the State has courses for about 100 students whereas another State with a population comparable with that of Victoria provides courses for 5,000 students. 
What exactly will the Liberal Party's proposal do in Victoria? Under the Australian Universities Commission's thinking an external student should cost, the equivalent of one-half of a full time student. In other words, $600 is the cost of maintaining an external student. Let us divide $600 into what the Liberals in Victoria are offering. I believe that 600 goes into 100,000 about 166 times. In other words, what the Liberal Party of Victoria is offering to solve this massive problem of the shortage of external courses is 166 courses. Incredible! At the present moment Victoria provides only 100 external courses, while New South Wales' provides 5,000. All the Liberal Party in Victoria can find in its imagination to provide is extra courses for 166 students. That is just incredible. 
I want to point out that of all the States in the Commonwealth Victoria is the only State without even a minimal external course. Let us compare New South Wales and Victoria on a population basis. If we have 5,000 external students in New South Wales as well as the vast numbers they have inside the universities, Victoria should be providing courses foi- 4,000 students. So we can see just how significant is the reply of the Liberal Party in Victoria to the problem of providing external courses. I believe that any Victorian government that is worth its salt should come forward and say that it will deal with this problem. We are very concerned about the grave injustices and the inequality of opportunity that affect country students in particular. We must realise that one of the reasons why country students suffer from this inequality of opportunity is that teachers come to country areas quite often because they are forced to under the bonding system. Many of them, unfortunately for country areas, would not come there quite voluntarily, and many of them later leave the country areas for the metropolitan area purely and simply because they cannot get further qualifications in the regions in which they are living. They have to come down to the metropolis. So we can see just how insignificant is the reply of the Victorian Liberal Party to that problem. 
The Labor Party policy is to provide a fourth university in a regional area. The task of this university 'will be to provide externa) courses on a large scale. We should be able to deal with this problem in Victoria in the same way as it is being dealt with in New South Wales. We should be able to provide, say, 3,000 to 5,000 externa] courses for university students. Incidentally, what is the reason why these additional courses are being provided in Victoria? The only reason why they are being provided is that, after years of allowing external courses to fold up in Victoria, the Liberal Party has suddenly realised how attractive Labor's proposal is. In order to con a few votes in the countryside the Liberal Party is now offering an extra 166 external courses. That will bring the grand total of external courses in Victoria up to 266 compared with 5,000 in New South Wales. 
There is one last point I want to deal with: I asked a question of the Minister for Education and Science last week concerning the very distinct likelihood that fees in colleges of advanced education and universities in Victoria would rise next year.' I would point out at this stage - I am making this statement on the basis of what has happened in other States - that in the other 5 States of Australia the fees at universities and colleges of advanced education have been rising. I am prepared to guarantee at this moment that this is exactly what will happen in Victoria if  Sir Henry  Bolte gets back into power. What has happened in other States this year? New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia have raised fees at their universities by 20%. Western Australia has raised university fees by 7%. Tasmania has raised them bv  12%.  Sticking out like a sore toe is the State of Victoria. Victoria, for some strange reason, has not raised fees. Is this because  Sir Henry  Bolte believes in free education or cheap education? Does he want to remove the inequalities in education? Not likely. He has an election to face this year. This is why moves to increase fees are being stalled. 
The reply the Minister for Education and Science gave me last week was very interesting. I asked him why Victoria had not raised fees. Naturally, being a representative of the Liberal Government in Canberra, the Minister for Education and Science was not going to say that  Sir Henry  Bolte has not raised them for the very simple, shrewd opportunist reason that he has an election to face. The answer was an evasive one but what the Minister for Education and Science did say in reply was interesting. He said virtually that every State government, under the existing financial arrangements between the State and Commonwealth governments, has a vested interest in raising university fees and college of advanced education fees. These are the words he used in answer to my question last Friday: 
To this extent it might be said that the States have some interest in the level of fees because it follows that the higher the revenue from fees the smaller is the direct contribution from the States. 
In other words, any State which does not raise its fees is a fool. It has less money to pay towards the cost of the universities and colleges of advanced education and it can get that recouped by the Commonwealth, anyway. Now, what has happened in the field of colleges of advanced education? Increases in this year should be noted. In the New South Wales Institute of Technology there has been an overall increase of up to  50%;  in the Tasmanian Advanced College of Education, an increase of  10%;  in the South Australian Institute of Technology, a  20%  increase; and in the Western Australian Institute of Technology, an increase of up to  50%.  Why has not Victoria raised its fees? Is it because  Sir Henry  Bolte believes in cheap education? Does he want to cut down the costs of education? Not likely. It is an election year. If  Sir Henry  gets back, up will go those fees. He will try to bring those fees into line with the fees as they are in other States after being raised. Those are the  2  points I want to bring out tonight, but most importantly I want to stress just how useless, how inadequate and how hopeless is what the Liberal Party in Victoria is offering in the way of external courses - an increase of  166  external courses. 

 Mr N. H. BOWEN (Parramatta - Minister for Education and Science) - by leave - I want to make  2  brief points as the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  was dealing with matters of education. The first is that before the honourable member makes this type of speech appropriate to a soapbox in a State election campaign he should get his facts correct. The facts are, of course, that the Commonwealth has offered massive aid to the  3  Melbourne universities for external courses and I myself have had some discussions on this subject with them. There has been some response from Monash University. I can assure the honourable member that it is not a lack of money in this area, but a lack of will on the part of the universities to undertake external courses. The universities do not want to do it, and I do not know whether the honourable member realises that universities are autonomous bodies or whether he has the view that if Labor was in power that they would cease to be autonomous. But I think he should understand the position and if he is worried about external studies let him have a talk with the universities and see why they are not taking up the money to use for those courses. 
The second thingI would say without going into the matter of the policy speech is to call the attention of honourable members to the reports which have been appearing in the Press of the policy on education stated by the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party, of the ultimate reduction and phasing out of aid to independent schools. This is not only paying scant regard to a very substantial section of Australians-- 
I rise to order. This is disgraceful. We gave leave to the Minister to answer the questions that we raised on this subject. 6 want the answers to the questions that I raised, not the questions he is suddenly introducing out of the blue. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Bill involves an increased expenditure for capital grants to the States for the provision of teachers colleges. The increase is to the extent of 25% over the previous triennium, when $24m was offered to the States. Under the provisions of this Bill $30m is to be offered. This assistance will of course toe appreciated by the State governments. However, there are some comments I would like to make about the expenditure and the limitations of expenditure. Something has been said already about the fact that the increase represents a 25% increase over the last 3 years. That is very true. On the other hand, exactly how much does this mean in additional spending power for the States that are receiving this money? I think that is an important issue, because after all the cost of living and, in particular, the cost of building has been skyrocketing over the last 3 years. A good deal of the increased grant to the States would simply cover the increase in the cost of building the colleges. So I do not think a great deal of pride can be taken in this increase in expenditure. 
There are some comments I would like to make in reference to the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  On what basis has the grant of $30m for the next 3 years been made? The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
This increase is designed to assist the States with their teacher education programmes at a reasonable and realistic level. 
I want to know exactly what is meant by the term 'reasonable and realistic'. Is the Minister satisfied with the amount that the States are spending at the present moment? Does he mean by 'reasonable and realistic level' one of these things: A realistic and reasonable level in terms of what the States are prepared to pay; a realistic and reasonable level in terms of what the States are able to pay; or a realistic and reasonable level in terms of what is needed to cope with the vast shortages of teachers in the States? There is obviously a very great need for increased teacher college accommodation in Victoria, because that State is passing through its worst crisis in relation to the provision of teaching staff. 
There was in the Melbourne 'Age' on 21st May a report from the Victorian Teachers Union which showed just how severe this crisis would become by the 1970s. I believe that with the present allotment of money by the Commonwealth and the State the students of Victoria simply will not be able to get enough teachers. The article in the Melbourne 'Age' states: 
The union estimates that by 1973 teacher colleges will be about 2,000 teachers down on the numbers who should be in training. It warns that the second generation post-war baby boom children - due to hit the schools in the 1970s - will make it impossible for the Education Department to adequately staff schools later in the decade. The union claims the Department needs to start work immediately on at least 4 new teacher colleges to match the expected demand. The secretary of the union's teachers' college staff branch  (Mr B. Costin)  said yesterday that teacher college enrolments would have to be boosted by 5,500 - to a total of 18,500 trainees - within the next 5 years. Yet the Education Department plans to provide only an extra 1,250 places by 1973,' he said. Present Education Department plans provide for $20 million being spent over five years, but if we are to have any hope of meeting the second baby boom at least $30 million needs to be spent on teacher colleges in the next three years.' 
This is the point that I want to make: Exactly what does the term 'reasonable and realistic' mean? I think the only way you could argue that the term has any meaning is to say that it is in comparison with what the State governments need in order to provide sufficient staff. There is another report that points out just what the situation is here. Again it is a report from the Victorian Teachers Union. The situation in Victoria at the present moment is already chronic. There simply is not enough staff. There is not enough qualified staff, and there is not even enough under or unqualified staff. The Victorian Teachers Union made a survey of the position of science and mathematics teachers in Victoria. Incidentally, the union had been informed by the Victorian Education Department that high schools alone in Victoria were short of 250 mathematics and science teachers this year. Those were the official figures; and official figures are quite often somewhat different from figures which are taken unofficially by the professional organisations. The VTU gave an estimate that in fact the shortage was 450 teachers. This indicates what the present situation is. It is a fact - I have seen it myself - that throughout Victoria there are science and maths classes that do not have a teacher at all. There are some that do not have enough teachers, and many of the teachers are not fully qualified. This is a very important point at all levels of secondary education, whether it is at the first form or at the sixth form. There are classes that are overcrowded by 30 or 40 at first form level, and it is simply impossible these days for those children to be taught. When a matriculation class has 20 or 30 more students than it should have, the effect on the child being taught in that class is disastrous.  His  chances of succeeding in the education system are tremendously reduced. So that is an explanation of what the situation is like in Victoria already. I would like the Minister for Education and Science to tell me exactly what is meant by the term 'reasonable and realistic'. 
The Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
The amounts set out in the schedule to the Bill were determined after due consideration of the many important factors involved. 
He stated that these are the following: The population of each State; the amount available to each State in the current triennium - I think he means by this the amount that the States have available already - and the amount of matched assistance that New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania are receiving for teacher education in Colleges of Advanced Education. The fourth point seems to be that the overriding considerations have been the needs of the States and the effectiveness of grants in meeting these needs. To deal with the last one first, what exactly are these needs? On what system does the Commonwealth Government plan ahead? Does it plan ahead at all? Has it got before it - and if so how long has it had before it - a scheme of exactly what the needs of a State of Australia will be for the next 3 years, 5 years or 10 years? Do we have any such figures? Have proposals been put forward by the States? 
I believe that there have been investigations by the various State governments, and I believe that these reports have been presented to the Commonwealth Governmnt But the point there is that we as an Opposition are not in the position where we can say to the Miniser:  'Look,  we do not agree that this should be', or, 'That is fair enough'. If we do not have a more reasoned argument as to the needs of the States, how can we do our job as the Opposition? It is not just good enough to write a bland statement and say: The overriding considerations have been the needs of the States and the effectiveness of grants in meeting these needs.' I think we have every right to be told in more detail exactly what the needs are. It is just not right to expect that the decisions which will affect the Australian people as a whole should be made entirely and solely by the Government. We have every right to speak up for the people in case the Government is not doing the job properly. The Opposition and the people of Australia simply are not told what the situation is. Unfortunately, this has happened far too much. It happens for too much in the States of Australia and it happens far too much in the Commonwealth. All that we are told is that expenditure has increased by such and such a figure over the last few years. Expenditure will multiply by such and such a figure over the next few years. But rarely are the Australian people told exactly what the need is and what has to be done. Unfortunately, too often we fall back on the old argument and say that there are great needs, unspecified as they are, and the only way to deal with them is to provide the finance through extra taxation. If the Government is prepared to say to the Australian people: 'We need X qualified teachers if we are to give every young Australian child the full opportunuity to develop his innate potentiality' and if it is prepared to argue this way for 3 years, the Australian people will not object to an increase in taxation if there are no other means of raising revenue. The Minister also said: 
The need to improve the quality of the teaching force is central to the task of improving the quality of education generally, and these grants will enable the States to provide new and replacement teachers, educational facilities, and a good deal earlier than they could hope to do from their own resources. 
If this is the case why is it that so many of the teachers organisations throughout Australia are complaining regularly and loudly that their standards are not being maintained, that not enough teachers are being trained and that, as there are insufficient teachers, more people are being brought in from outside to do a job which should be reserved for professional people. As this happens, the standard of teaching drops. And as the standard of teaching drops the status of the teacher drops, and it becomes a vicious circle. 
Why is it, if the aim behind the Commonwealth's expenditure on education is to improve the quality of the teaching force, that these organisations are complaining consistently? It is not just a matter of providing more teachers colleges. The Minister made some reference to the fact that the Commonwealth does spend money in other areas of education as well. That is quite true. It spends money on colleges of advanced education and universities. But he made the rather strange statement that the Commonwealth shares fully with the States. How one shares fully with the States I do not know, particularly in view of the obnoxious convention in reference to the provision of finances. I refer especially to the requirement by the Commonwealth that the major items of recurrent expenditure must be borne by the States. It does not matter whether it is for colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges, universities, or what it is, as long as the Government continues with this very difficult regulation that the States shall provide so much it will continue to have trouble. As I say, it is not good enough simply to provide extra finances for teachers colleges. We have to ensure that the existing facilities outside teachers colleges are fully used. Unfortunately, over the last few years there has been a shameful history of exclusion of people from universities and colleges of advanced education. We simply cannot get enough people trained and qualified to undertake teaching while the continual rationing of education in colleges of advanced education and universities continues. 
There is one other problem about the Bill and that is that it is concerned solely with the provision of capital expenditure. Is is not about time that the Commonwealth sat down and started to survey the field of teacher education as a whole instead of just nibbling at one section of it - the provision of capital expenditure? Should it not start to implement some of the suggestions contained in the Martin report? After all, the Commonwealth has already infringed State rights - if that is the argument to be used to keep the Commonwealth out of teacher education policy - in the assistance it gives to colleges of advanced education and universities. Why do we not have a full scale tertiary education policy, not just one policy for one section and one for another section but for the 3 as a whole? Why have we not some sort of policy that embraces the whole system and some nationally organised body that could look at the whole 3 and say: Things are going well in this area. Things are not going quite so well in that area. In this area teacher education needs a special boost along.'? I do not know how that sort of co-ordination takes place, if it does take place. On what basis does the Commonwealth decide that universities at the present moment should have their finances depressed and colleges of advanced education have theirs boosted, while the teacher training institutions remain at a virtually static level? What sort of policy have we for supervising and co-ordinating the whole field of tertiary education? I think it is about time we did that. I think it is about time that we implemented some aspects of the Martin report. 
Should the Commonwealth Parliament not be telling those States which are still laggard in implementing sections of the Martin report - for example with reference to autonomy for teachers colleges and a teacher education board - what to dcr? What are we doing to accelerate the movement by States to sever the teacher education authorities from the State departments? I do not think that we are doing enough. There has been some movement recently. In Victoria the Government, just about on the eve of an election, set out to introduce some changes. Those changes were not carried through. It is a testimony to the insignificance of teacher education. As it is, the propositions being put forward by the Victorian Government on the autonomy of teacher training institutions are a sham. 
It is not being done in the true spirit of the Martin report. It is not a full scale autonomy. 
There is one other aspect that we have to look at if we are to get teachers and hold on to them. We have to make their jobs as rewarding as possible. We should be providing all the facilities necessary to ensure that they get continued in-service training. The in-service training in Australian education systems is really a mockery. I understand that in the Victorian Education Department the amount that the Department spends on in-service training is equivalent to  $1  a head. The amount of knowledge that a teacher has to absorb is accelerating every year. It embraces not just the subject matter that he is teaching; it embraces the method by which he is teaching, and the philosophy, psychology and practice of education. The teacher must keep up with all these things if he is to be an effective teacher. It costs thousands of dollars to train him. The way in which throughout this nation the intelligence and the resources of teachers are not being fully applied is incredible. 
I want to deal with one other matter that concerns the Commonwealth. I spoke last night about external courses in Victoria and I said that it was most important that the facilities for external courses in that State be improved. One of the main reasons why country education is not comparable with city education and why the country student has only half the opportunity that the metropolitan student has to go to a university is that teachers in country areas suffer from discrimination. Teachers have to be encouraged to go to country areas and they have to be encouraged to stay there. At the present moment many teachers are reluctant to go to country areas because they cannot continue their education there. Some of them leave their country schools because they cannot continue their education. There are simply not enough facilities provided for external courses in Victoria. The country student is the victim of that policy. 
I want to give the House a comparison of the situation in relation to external courses in Victoria. I would like to go into a little bit more detail on what I was speaking about last night. 
The honourable member can read it in Hansard. If we take the figures for 1969 we will see that in Victoria 178 students did external courses, in New South Wales the figure was 3,478, in Queensland it was 2,521, in South Australia it was 166, in Western Australia it was 309, and in Tasmania it was 167. If New South Wales can provide this sort of service to people outside the metropolitan area, including sick people, I believe that there will be hundreds of teachers - I am referring particularly to country teachers - who will be only too willing to take up courses if they are offered in Victoria. 
We must look at what has been happening in New South Wales where the University of New England specialises in external courses. Firstly, I refer to what has been happening in Victoria over the last 3 years. The number of external courses being undertaken there has dropped. The number of external courses offered in 1967 was 360. In 1968, it was 245. In 1969, the figure was 178. All that we have so far for 1970 is an estimate. The estimate is that in Victoria, 185 external courses will be available in 1970, 190 in 1971 and 205 in 1972. It is when we compare this situation with the position in New South Wales that we see just how desperate it is. 
A proposition has been put forward by the Victorian Government that $100,000 should be expended to increase the number of courses for external students. The offer has been made to Monash University. I point out that, at this stage, Monash University has not made any specific official statement on the subject as far as I can see. But a report in the Melbourne 'Age' of 19th May states that the request to provide these external courses was not received well at the University. The report continues: 
The feeling among staff is that external studies will be more of a burden than an acquisition. The University has no building to use as an external study centre - it would need about $500,000 to set up suitable accommodation. 
Honourable members can see that an offer of $100,000 in Victoria is not likely to warm the cockles of the heart of Monash University because such an offer does not deal with one of the most important problems which is the provision of a building to provide this service. I wish to make one further point about this amount of $100,000. It is this: The $100,000 may attract a matching grant from the Commonwealth Government and, as far as I can see, the Commonwealth subsidy would be $54,054 on the basis of a Commonwealth contribution of $1 for every $1.85 provided by the State. But the impression I have is that the granting of this extra money to Victoria will not be automatic by any means. I believe that the payment of this money would need to be approved by this Parliament through the passage of a Bill. 
Exactly what benefit will be provided by this grant of $100,000, assuming that it attracts a Commonwealth grant? The formula adopted by the Australian University Commission for comparing categories of students in part time and external courses is that an external student attracts a recurrent expenditure of half that of a full time student. The 1965 formula provided a payment of $1,200 for a full time student. Half of that expenditure of course would be $600. I think one would need to add an increase of about 4% per annum since 1965 to that figure. So, the cost of each external student would be $700. In other words, $700 would be provided towards the cost of educating each student in the chosen external course. 
If the $100,000 offered by the Victorian Government is to attract the Commonwealth grant and if Monash University finds the offer acceptable - this does not seem to be the case so far - taking the 1965 calculation of $600 per external student, we discover that the number of additional students able to undergo external courses through Monash University would be 256. Taking the 1970 calculation which gives a cost of $700 per student, we find that this means that only 220 extra students would be able to do external courses through that University in Victoria. 
Exactly what impact does this have on the problem of country teachers in particular? I am referring here not simply to teachers at Government schools but also to teachers at private schools. Much play was made last night to the effect that state aid per capita is a big thing. But what we tend to overlook is that private schools are just as desperately in need of additional facilities to improve the qualifications of their teachers as is the State school system. What effect would this increase in the number of students taking external courses in Victoria have? The estimate that has been provided for this year shows that the number of students taking external courses in Victoria is 185. I do not have the exact figures. This is the estimate as set out by the Australian Universities Commission. If we add to that figure the 220 students who could be trained at $700 per head on a grant of $100,000 from the Victorian Government and a matching grant from the Commonwealth Government, we find that the total number of students who could be educated in external courses in Victoria this year is 405. 
Honourable members can see that this is simply not adequate when considered against the scale of the problem. This is especially so when we compare these figures with the figures for New South Wales. This year, the estimated numbers of external course students in New South Wales is 3,930. Let us suppose that we add the estimated number of extra students for 1971 to the already estimated figure at this time. That figure is 190. All that we can expect at the present moment in Victoria is that the number of external students will increase in the next year by only 5 on the number enrolled this year. The total number of students undertaking external courses next year would be 410. I compare this with the estimated figure for New South Wales which is 4,305. Another fundamental question arises here. So far, Monash University has not made any official statement as far as I can recognise - all we have had are comments from around the campus - as to whether Monash University will accept this grant- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I point out that this is a Bill relating to universities. The purpose of the Bill is to grant financial assistance to the States for the purposes of building projects in connection with teachers colleges. Only passing references to universities are in order. 
That is very true,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  What we are concerned with here is teachers colleges. I am talking about the general conditions under which teachers are being trained. But the subject of teachers colleges is one aspect only of the matter. It is not good enough just to train people. The other aspect must be looked at also. I refer to those people who are already teaching in classrooms. 
These people want further training. Mow are we to give them this training? What I am talking about is the situation in Victoria. Let me revert briefly to what I was saying before. Monash is very unenthusiastic about this grant. The University has no external study centre. It would need about $500,000 to set up suitable accommodation. That is the reason why it is unenthusiastic. We cannot offer a University $100,000  -  whatever the Commonwealth: matching grant may be - and say: 'Right.. Go ahead and find $500,000'. Every University in Victoria has been starved of funds for development in the next 3 years. Obviously, these Universities are not willing to take on any additional project such as the one proposed at Monash. I have raised this subject because I believe that a desperate need exists for a boost in the number of people taking external courses, especially teachers and, in particular again, those teachers who are living in country areas. I think that this is the only way in which we will ensure that teachers in rural areas and country students will get a fair deal. 
I would like to comment on a few of the remarks made by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  It sometimes staggers me that members of the Government can adopt such an approach as he adopts to the people that it employs on behalf of the Australian people, that is, the people referred to, usually contemptuously, as bureaucrats'. A description of these people is usually accompanied by such words as remote', 'faceless' and 'impersonal*. One gets the impression that because public servants have to live in Canberra, a distance from the State capital cities, there are some special demoniacal, impersonal and inhuman qualities about them, lt is staggering to hear this. Yet obviously the honourable member who made those very same comments would not express the same sorts of views about the faceless bureaucrats who run the private banks of Australia or some of the directors of companies in which people of Australia hold stocks and shares. 
I dare 10 suggest that in the way in which the honourable member used it it is a dirty word. 
The honourable member can leave it to my interpretation. Maybe he can reply at some other lime. I think the words he used were 'remote' and iniperson-.il'. We were all cautioned very much to be on our guard lest these malevolent characters interfered in the sa.-red things called 'State rights' and the 'rights of voluntary bodies'. I do not care two hoots about who runs and who finances the education of young handicapped p--op'e. It docs not bother me whether it is done by local government bodies. Slate bodies, Commonwealth bodies or voluntary bodies. My on v concern is to see that it is done. We cannot ignore the fact that at the moment it is not being done. This is why wc are worried. 1 suggest that the obvious thing to do is for the Commonwealth to sit down, reason it out with the State governments, look over the whole problem and say: What can we do? What have wc done so far? What have we not done? Where are the areas of need that should bc patched up? What do we have to do?' That is exactly what this Government has not done. This is why we on this side of the House are angry. I simply cannot comprehend what makes federal public servants any different from State public servants or even local authority public servants and what makes public servants any different from anybody who is paid by some private profit making organisation. 
The comment was made that there is something sacred about voluntary bodies. 
Nobody on this side of the House argues with the importance that is placed on the job that voluntary bodies do. There is no question about that. Of course a lot of these organisations, such as the Spastic Childrens Society of Victoria Inc. could never have got started without voluntary help. But why could they not have got started? The honourable member for Cook said that their establishment was all due to the pioneering spirit. But why did they have to have this pioneering spirit? It was simply because the State government, the Commonwealth Government or the local government authorities would not do the job themselves, lt is quite true that the voluntary bodies have done a marvellous job. But they have reached a stage in their history where they simply cannot carry on. 
What are we doing about the problems?cms? 1 venture to say that we are not doing very much. 1 say to the Minister: As far as I can see, this is insignificant. I would like to bc able to say that it was more important. What exactly will it do? lt is taking over an area of responsibilityitv that is at prose  ii!  being div barged by the State govevernments We arc supposed to assume that for sonic magical reason the Slate governm ~n's will i.p nd on maintenance costs, lor example. l&gt;those moneys which are presently bc;ng expendedled on capital costs. As far as I can sec, this is .sheer optimism and sheer wishful thinking, because surely the w*o'e trend of financial relations between the Commonwealth and li'e State governments over recent years has been that when the Commonweath increases the amount that it pays to some body that relies on Commonwealth money  tl'c  first reaction of the Stale governments  i&lt;  to de re:ise the amount thai they pay or to increase changes or if the State governmentn increased superannuation the Commonwealthth eoi ives along and lift&gt;. off 50% of ii through  lap'-red means lest. This is what is happening ali the way along. 
On what ground are wc on this .side of the House expected to believe that the State governments arc lo spend more money on the recurrent costs  ot  caring for handicapped children thanii they are spending at the moment'.' I cannot see it. A.s !a: as I am eon .fined it simply wis! not hupp -n. I do noi want to .-p.n.l a;i isn I m  d :&gt;:.'*a wilh comments made by the hu o ruble member for Cook. Obviously we have different views on the subject. It is partly a question of ideology, I suppose. I am all for strong Federal goverment, strong State government and strong local government. It does not matter who does the work as long as somebody does it. Every time we stand in this House and say that the Commonwealth should be doing more we have thrown in our faces the words: 'State rights'. That phrase is used to evade the fact that somebody is not doing the job or that somebody is not forced to do the job. 
Underlying this Bill 's the basic Liberal Party philosophy. The honourable member for Cook said we should not talk about the past. He said the Commonwealth had done a good job generally and there were certain areas where it had not done as much as it should have done, but let us look at the future. The question I ask is: Where does this Bill fit in? What is it a:med at? Is it aimed solely at stopping a gap that the Commonwealth believes the State governments cannot fill or is it part of a philosophy of expanding Commonwealth assistance for handicapped children? That is what 1 want to know. We are told that sheltered workshops are be ng subsidised by the Commonwealth. Now we are to have capital expenditure subsidised by the Commonwealth. Is the Commonwealth intending to do one thing now, something else in another 3 years and something else again after another 3 years, or is this part of an overall scheme? The question is whether the Government is go'ng to sit down with State governments, local government bodies and representatives of voluntary organisations and plan what it is going to do in future years instead of continuing with this stop gap policy. 
There is a base philosophy behind most of the Bills  Introduced  by the Liberal Party. I think it  also  underlines this one. lt is difficult to see any philosophy apart from that one. Once again, behind this Bill is the theory that the individual is in charge of his own fate. There seems always to be the argument that the individual is capable of looking after his own problems. This is very true to a certain extent. That sort of person always will come to the fore when there is a problem and the, are the sort of people we need to he'p. There seems to be in this Bill no philosophy of Common wealth responsibility. Once again the Commonwealth is relying on individuals. How sound today is the argument that things can be left to individuals? As far as I am concerned it is not very, sound at all. If we continue to have a system that relies upon individual voluntary groups to do things then we are going to continue the inefficiency and injustice we have had in . this subsidy system for years. Honourable members on the Opposition side of the House know that in the education field schools in the inner suburban areas that rely on government subsidy do far more poorly despite the fact that they have greater needs than schools in the wealthier areas. The same thing will apply in respect of this Bill, lt is not entirely a matter of capital assistance being granted according to need; it :'s capital assistance being granted according to the haphazardness and the sheer chance of local circumstances. 
There is another aspect involved. There is no argument about the rights of the individual. I suppose it would be a daring thing for a Liberal Government ever to assert that any person has distinct rights. Private profit has rights, States have rights, but individuals do not have rights. As far as the education of handicapped children is concerned, there is no statement of rights. Assistance will be given to them if in certain circumstances a certain group of people come together and raise one-third of the capital cost involved. The thing that bothers me most is that nobody in Australia is settling down to look at the whole field of handicapped children, let alone the whole field of general welfare, and asking: 'What are rights of the people that we should be looking after?* 
It is not good enough to rely upon voluntary organisations because already many of them have reached a state of despair. Their finances are in a chronic state. I cite, for example, the situation of the Spastic Children's Society of Victoria. This is the sort of society that the Government expects will benefit from its generosity in providing for subsidised capital expenditure. What is the good of offering two-thirds of the cost of buildings, extensions and land if you cannot put bodies in those buildings and you cannot run them? This is the case with the Spastic Children's Society of Victoria. Until recently it had a bank overdraft of $338,000.In a fit of pre-election conscience  Sir Henry  Bolte discovered the plight of handicapped children and tossed them $100,000. Now, the Society's bank overdraft will be lowered to some extent. However, that is the situation of the people that the Government thinks are going to benefit from this subsidised expenditure. 
Another aspect of this Bill about which 1 want to speak is in line with the general argument I am putting forward that the Commonwealth is not looking at the whole field of assistance to handicapped people. It completely ignores the Stale system. The usual Liberal reply is that these are State rights and never mind about individual rights. Of course the Commonwealth completely disregards the fact that health authorities and education authorities throughout Australia are in desperate financial straits. The Commonwealth should si: down with each State Government and say: What do you need in your private sphere and what do you need in your State sphere?' Having decided what the need is it should decide what assistance it can give. The Commonwealth has made a survey of Australia's needs in education and it should be able to do this in the field of social welfare and assistance to handicapped children. There should be no artificial distinction between somebody who attends a State institution and somebody who attends a private institution. 
As far as we of the Opposition are concerned there are a number of points that we can stress which would distinguish our attitude from that of the Liberals. We regard this assistance being provided to handicapped children as a matter of right. It is not a matter of accident or a matter of privilege. Every single child in Australia has a right to an education that will develop all of its capacities no matter how extensive they are or how limited they are. Indeed the more limited is the capacity the greater the need for that child's rights to be recognised by this Government, by a State government or by somebody - just so long as somebody does recognise it. At present everybody recognises that a normal child has a right to develop to a stage of education which will bring out all of his capacities. This principle is honoured in the breach. One could not say that we had this in fact in Victoria. In that State there is a philosophy of 4 walls and a teacher. Sometimes there arc not even the 4 wails and it cannot be guaranteed that a qualified teacher is available. But in theory it is admitted that  A  walls and a teacher will providethe education that will bring out the latent ca pacities of normal Victorian children: But. b., God. you look beyond the normal child and ask yourself: What about the child that goes to the spastic centre, the one that goes to the school for the mentally retardedorthe one that goes to special school? Their rights arenot comparable with the right, of a normal child. 
This is an amazing thing. How does this come about when it is the handi apped child especially who needs the special ist training, the physiotherapist, the speech therapist, the occupational therapist and the trained teacher? That child's parents probably need a social welfare worker. The teacher probably also needs a psychologist to watch the child's progress. Set these things as the standard of what the handicapped child needs and you can guarantee that the child has not got them, This is simply because nobody in  Australiais  prepared to accept full responsibil ity for the education of handicapped children 
The philosophy of the Labor Party - it is also my philosophy - is that the assistanceto begiven 'oa handicapped chil dis a right and it shouldbe the absolute best. The fact is, of course, that the assistance provided is among the worst. The handicapped child is among the most underprivileged of Australian school children. He ranks with the Aboriginal, the migrant child and the child of the working class family in the inner suburban areas. That is where the handicapped child stands in Australia. 
One other fundamental difference between the Australian Labor Party and the Liberals is that we believe there is a need for planning. An honourable member opposite admitted earlier in this debate that there is a need for some research into this subject. Very good. There also is a need for planning and to consider what Australia needs as a whole.It is no good simply trying to patchup the State system. Obviously, each State has different standards. The quality of what they provide is  different. Australia has become a nation. As far as I am concerned, it is no longer a collection of 6 States. It is all humbug to go on raising the matter of State rights. This is a problem that we should be worried about as a nation. We should bc dealing with it as a nation. We should be trying to cope with this problem in a way, at least comparable, with that of many overseas countries which are a lot poorer than we are financially and yet which do a better job. 
There is a need for planning. The authorities should sit down and see exactly where needs exist. This will not happen under this continual stop-gap philosophy that is applied. Obviously country areas, including those areas in my own State of Victoria, will continue to be deprived of educational and rehabilitation facilities for handicapped children. There are also the inner suburban areas of Melbourne and the areas of high rise buildings where parents could not possibly raise one-third of the capital cost required to receive this assistance let alone pay for maintenance costs thereafter. These are the areas of need that are being ignored because nobody is planning for them. 
One must accept also that there is a Commonwealth responsibility and that there is a State responsibility. I have said it before, and I think that there is no point in repeating it: Somebody has to accept the responsibility. It must be a full responsibility. We in the Australian Labor Party do. not wish to shut out the voluntary workers. As far as I am concerned it is essential to have community involvement. This does not mean that we must inflict every unfortunate parent with the task of raising money by way of fetes and door knock campaigns just in order to preserve this mystical quality of community involvement. Community involvement can still occur while at the same time we insist that the Government fulfils its full responsibility to handicapped children. 
That is true. Furthermore, I think it is necessary to have some sort of co-ordination between the various bodies that are involved. Discussions on co-ordination should take place. Included in these discussions should be the Federal Government, State governments and local government bodies involved as well as the voluntary organisations. They all should sit down and see exactly what their roles should be. I think that this just is not happening very much. Insofar as co-ordination of their activities and their roles exists, it appears that this is co-ordination by stealth. 
I think that there is one other principle that we would insist on. That is the regional concept of providing assistance for the handicapped. lt is no longer good enough to have a school here and a school there, a department here and a department there, and everything centralised. We should be able to consider the whole of the needs of the nation, look to areas as being regions and guarantee that these areas have all the appropriate government departments that are necessary. This is not happening under the Liberal system. I believe that one other point should be stressed about our philosophy. It is this: If Commonwealth money and State money are to be spent, wc should be watching how that money is being spent. If we are to spend money on building these schools, we should be sure that the buildings will be used in the best possible way. We should be ensuring also - and nobody is doing this - that the standard of teaching is the highest possible. We should be setting standards. At present, standards are not being set very much in Australia. Things are just continuing in their old familiar haphazard way. 
I wish to give some specific examples of criticism of the Bill. I said earlier that we support the Bill because, after all, it is an indication of Commonwealth participation and Commonwealth involvement in part of its obligation. But the question is: Is capital assistance alone the answer? The answer to that question is of course no. Many of the organisations concerned with this field of activity are very much in debt already. Many could not afford to pay one-third of the costs as required by this Bill. Even if they did pay their part of the cost of putting the buildings up, they could not run them. I quoted figures concerning the Spastic Children's Society of Victoria Inc. That Society has 2 country centres, 5 metropolitan centres and 2 hostels. Quite obviously, it would like to expand- its activities. But how can such a body expand when it has an overdraft which only recently stood at $338,000? How does such a society pay its teachers? How does it pay physiotherapists, occupational therapists and so on? To give capital expenditure assistance only is not good enough. The Commonwealth must give an undertaking that it will enable such an organisation to maintain its buildings also. 
At the present moment, the Spastic Children's Society of Victoria lnc. is greatly in need of various types of therapists. Speech therapists and occupational therapists are available only on a sessional basis in Melbourne for the Spastic Children's Society. Some of the assistance from physiotherapists is provided also on a sessional basis while some is provided on a full time basis. The point is that the Society must have these 3 types of therapists at its centres full time. It has not got them. Part of the reason for this state of affairs is the general shortage of these specialists and the starvation that we foster in our system of tertiary education. Part of the problem is the need for finance. 
Let me bring this situation home to my own doorstep. One can see the problem in my electorate also. The offer of capital assistance, as far as the spastic centre in my electorate is concerned, is just not enough because other problems are faced there as well. The spastic centre in Bendigo is a very important institution. It caters for 19 children. It has not a physiotherapist. It has not an occupational therapist. It has not a speech therapist. Of course, it has not a fully trained teacher. It has not a fully trained staff. Yet. this is just the type of organisation - and these 19 children are just the group of young people - for which these specially qualified people are needed. But this centre has not these people. If the Government is to help this group, it must offer the Spastic Children's Society of Victoria Inc. assistance towards running costs as well. If the Government can get the Society out of its debt problem, it will enable the Society to do the job that it wants to do. 
Until we can get these special facilities in Bendigo, a number of these children will have to leave my electorate. As anybody can understand, severe heartbreak is involved when people must pull up roots from their home and go to the city. Honourable members know this; anybody would know it. Anybody who has to leave in circum stances such as these is faced with heartbreak and very many problems. If these facilities and specialists were provided in my electorate these children could stay there. Obviously, this is another thing that we need. 
Let us look at some of the other requirements. One asks why, in God's name, spastic children and their parents must pay for their own travel to and from school when normal children, particularly in the case of country children, receive their travel free. But no. Spastic children must pay. Why do spastic children not have at least the same rights as normal children enjoy? Why is it that parents and local bodies must pay for such items as electric typewriters for these children? They are fantastically costly. This cost should be borne by the States as their responsibility. 
The second criticism that I would make concerns the ignoring of State bodies. I repeat what I said earlier. It is not good enough to draw a distinction between the special schools run by the Government and the day schools that are being run by voluntary bodies. In Victoria, there is a shortage of places in these day schools run by the Victorian Education Department. Not enough staff is available. Far too much money, which comes from parents or from other voluntary contributors, must be spent on equipment. Not enough residential accommodation is provided for the students at these schools. The buildings are archaic. Many of them should have been bulldozed down years ago. A great need exists for more buildings to be provided.  Mr Barrie  Rimmer was referred to earlier. The research that he undertook on behalf of the Victorian Teachers Union was mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor).  Barrie Rimmer's research showed that at least 4 new buildings should be erected. When these buildings will be built, we do not know. If this is correct, the Commonwealth Government should be considering this problem in cooperation with the State Government and should deal with it. 
Another very great problem is the employment of these handicapped people. Barrie Rimmer estimated that about 70% of these people leaving school could get employment. A problem arises because the progress of these people cannot always bc followed up afterwards. A check cannot be kept on them because some will go to various places and the Education Department has not always the facilities to keep following them. These people need to be assisted. If they lose the:r jobs, they often need to be given special help. Rehabilitation is the responsibility of the Department of Labour and National Service. Insofar as it is, virtually no facilityfacility is operated by the Department in the country areas of Victoria. Once again, it is the country citizen who becomes the second class citizen because many of the advantages and many of the rights which the city handicapped ch id has the country handicapped child does not have. 
There are a number of points that should be made about this Bill. Some of the things which arc required in my electorate include a guarantee of more assistance from the Commonwealth to ensure that those people who are trained in special schools and in sheltered workshops can get jobs and to see that they are followed up later so that they remain in employment. In country areas employment is more scarce than it is in city areas. For this reason extra attention is needed. Many handicapped children need hostel accommodation in my electorate. This type of accommodation is necessary because, as many honourable members are already aware, one of the greatest worries of the parents of handicapped children is what will happen to the handicapped children if the mother or father becomes ill or dies. From time to time there is also a need for the parents to have a holiday, and in that case it is essential for the child to have somewhere to stay while the parents are having a rest. This is one of the greatest problems. On those grounds alone it is essential that there should be hostel accommodation, and for the mentally retarded children in my electorate this is a great need. 
One thing about this Bill which concerns me is that in taking a share of the responsebility to finance capital works the Commonwealth might be driving the State governments out of a field in which they are already contributing more generously than the Commonwealth is. 1 am particularly concerned about this. At the present time the Victorian Government provides $4 for every $1 of capital expenditure. If the 
State Government vacates the field entirely and the Commonwealth steps in and provides only $2 for every $1 obviously the people in my electorate who wilt be forced Vo finance their own hostel accommodation for retarded and handicapped people will have to pay heavier costs. I want to know whether the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has examined this situation. Has he any guarantee that the Victorian Government will still contribute a share so that the people can still get that payment of $4 for every $1. 
If I may. 1 will now sum up some of the main points which I think should be stressed. This Bill is inadequate because it deals only with capital expenditure. There should bc included in the Bill an undertaking to assist with maintenance costs as well. We should be insisting that every person who comes into contact with young handicapped children should as far as possible be fully qualified, f do not in any way detract from the work being done by the voluntary workers or tb'-  r&gt;-.;H 1  They are doing a very good job, but we must insist that the highest standards arc maintained in educating and training handicapped children. We should be able to guarantee that in a region such as mine, the electorate of Bendigo, there should at least be one or more physiotherapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists and psychologists. There should be nursing staff available to go around and visit the families who have children in very serious situations. There should also be social welfare workers available to be able to go around and visit families so as to assist the parents in educating handicapped children if the parents are undertaking this task. Obviously there is a very great need for further development in this field. I ask the Minister whether this measure is part of a developing policy on the part of the Commonwealth. Does he foresee, and better still does he plan, that there will be even greater involvement of the Commonwealth in this field as the years go by? Another urgent need in my own electorate is hostel accommodation. My electorate is only a reflection of the situation which exists throughout Australia as a whole. 
Some of the points which I have raised are very serious criticisms of the Bill but 
I think fundamentally the philosophy behind the Bill is weak. I think it should be based on a recognition of the needs of handicapped children in this nation as a whole and then action taken accordingly. The Minister nods as though in agreement with what I am saying: If this measure is the first or the second step along a continuing line of involvement by the Commonwealth, then I think that this is very good. But at the present time this Bill is still full of many shortcomings and there are many inadequacies in this field. I think that much more could have been done if a good deal more planning had been put into this. It seems to me that this has been something which was worked out. pretty quickly as a result of an election promise, but nevertheless it is a step in the right direction. 
Well, in that case- 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What units, other than the AHQ Survey Regiment at Bendigo and the School of Military Survey at Bonegilla, comprise the Royal Australian Survey Corps. 
Is it intended that these other units will also be co-located at Bonegilla within the next 5 years. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the value of the Commonwealth technical training grant made to the Victorian Education Department for the Castlemaine Senior Technical College in the 1967-69 triennium. 
Has this money been allocated to the State Government. 
If so. can he say if the grant has yet been allocated to the Technical College by the Victorian Education Department. 
If the College has received the grant, can hesay why it has not yet been spent. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What administrative, technical and logistic economies does he expect to result from relocating at Bonegilla the AHQ Survey Regiment which is now situated at Fortuna, Bendigo. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many houses are rented from the Victorian Housing Commission by officers and men of the AHQ Survey Regiment at Bendigo. 
How many permanent married quarters are occupied by personnel of the AHQ Survey Regiment at Bendigo. 
How many officers and men own homes or are purchasing homes in the Bendigo area. 
How many personnel of the AHQ Regiment are housed in barracks at Fortuna and in the Bendigo area. 
What accommodation in barracks. Housing Commission homes, permanent married quarters and other accommodation is available at present at Bonegilla . for those at AHQ, Bendigo, whom the Army wishes to transfer within the 'next 5 years. 
If the present facilities for residential accommodation at Bonegilla are not adequate to cope with the number of personnel whom the Army intends to transfer from Bendigo over the next 5 years, what additional accommodation will the Army have to provide at Bonegilla and what will it cost. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What was the original price which the Department of Interior paid for Fortuna, Bendigo. 
What new buildings have been constructed at Fortuna and in the Bendigo area since the Army first occupied Fortuna in 1942. 
What extensions and improvements have been made to existing buildings since 1942. 
What has been the cost of buildings, extensions and improvements provided since 1942. 
Does a master plan exist for Fortuna; if so, when was it drawn up. 
If a master plan exists, are there any buildings, extensions to existing buildings, or other works which are included in the master plan, which have nol been constructed; if so, which are they. 
Has the Army given consideration to expanding the facilities or accommodation presently existing in Fortuna. 
Has the Army considered that there is a need for additional space to supplement the space available at Fortuna. 
If so, has the Army investigated the availability of additional land in the Bendigo area. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
In which sections of the work being done by the AHQ Survey Regiment atFortuna, Bendigo, is there overcrowding, and what new buildings or extensions or improvements to existing buildings would be necessary to overcome it. 
What buildings are at present available at Bonegilla for the cartographic, typographic, printing and administrative work now being done by the AHQ Survey Regiment at Bendigo. 
If the full AHQ Survey Regiment at Bendigo is transferred to Bonegilla withinthenext 5 years, will any new buildings or extensions or improvements to existing buildings have to be provided at Bonegilla for working accommodation; if so, what is the estimated cost. 
Do any plans exist for the provision of facilities and accommodation at Bonegilla for the AHQ Survey Regiment. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many officers, men, and members of the Womens Royal Auxiliary Army Corps are employed at the AHQ Survey Regiment at Fortuna, Bendigo. 
How many of these are national servicemen. 
How many of the total military personnel at Fortuna are married. 
What is the total military personnel engaged at the School  of  Military Survey al Bonegilla. Victoria. 
How many of these are permanent staff. 
What is the total number of personnel undergoing training at the School of Military Survey, Bonegilla. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which State governments have submitted reports to the Commonwealth on costs or other aspects of decentralisation in accordance with projects of the Commonwealth-Stale Officials Committee on Decentralisation. 
With what subjects do these reports deal. 
When were the reports submitted to the Commonwealth. 
Which reports have been made available for non-official study, and which have been restricted for study by officials alone. 
asked the Minister [or Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) libraries and (b) science blocks have been built with the aid of Commonwealth subsidies in (i) government and (ii) independent schools in the Federal electorate division of Bendigo in each year since the inception of the scheme. 
What are the names of the schools in each case. 
Has the Minister for the Interior conferred recently with representatives of the Vestey company regarding its offer of land rights to the Gurindji people? If so, when did he have the discussions? If no discussions took place, will the Minister confer with Vesteys, and when? If the Minister has conferred with representatives of Vesteys may we look forward to an early announcement in the House that land rights will be granted to the Gurindji people? 
The honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  said that he supported the Government's Budget. I reject it wholeheartedly. ] throw all my support behind the amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  That amendment reads: 
That all words after 'That' bc omitted wilh a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'This House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails lo meet the real needs of the Australian people,  expecially  with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to school, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature'. 
Just how far this Government has moved away from the needs and the aspirations of the Australian people can best be seen by looking at what has been happening recently concerning the joint report by the States and the Commonwealth on the needs of Australian education. This has been a disgusting situation. The Australian Labor Party for more than 10 years has called for an open and independent inquiry into all aspects of Australian education. We have not had that inquiry. The Government finally did concede that a survey would be taken by State governments, and by itself on behalf of the Australian Territories. 
What has come out of that survey? Nothing! it has been regarded as a secret document, lt has not been collated by independent surveyors. The survey has been carried out by the Stale education departments themselves with little assistance from independent authorities outside. lt is disgraceful that so much money is being spent on education these days without any clear understanding on the part of the Australian Government and the State governments as to exactly where that money is going and where it should go. When one considers the amount of money that is being spent on education and when one realises just how inadequate that expenditure is, one comes to the conclusion that the Government deserves the strongest condemnation for not being prepared to reveal to the Australian people and the experts whose business is education just where we are heading in education. 
What do we spend on education? We spend 4.2% of our gross national product or a sum of more than SI, 010m per year. How do we know how this money is being spent? Is it being spent in the best interests of the Australian people? We do not know and we will never know, because no report has come from this survey of Australian education needs by the State governments and the Commonwealth Government. It is deplorable that the only information that we will receive from this survey is a summary. What the exact arguments are and what the exact evidence is will be kept concealed from the Australian people, lt is equally deplorable that the State governments have been prepared to act in collusion with the Commonwealth Government in the suppression of this information, lt serves the State governments right, if they are at all sincere about education, that no action has been taken so far as a result of this survey. 
If I were to have my say, J would strongly urge every person who is interested in education in Australia, every teacher and the State governments themselves to seek the -release of this report and lo put pressure on the Commonwealth Government to take immediate action. The State governments have received none of the emergency grants which they expected to flow from this survey of Australian education needs. In my opinion, the negative response that they have received from the Commonwealth Government serves them right. Far stronger pressure should be brought to bear upon the Commonwealth Government for the release of this information and for action upon it. 
One very fundamental question is involved, I think, in a survey of our educational needs, lt is this: Whose responsibility is education? lt is purely and solely a matter which concerns only the department responsible for education in each State and only the government of each Stale, or is it something which concerns the interests and the welfare of the whole of the Australian people? As far as I am concerned, the latter is the correct argument. 
The ancient Romans used to have a very interesting phrase for 'government'. It was *res publica', which means 'that matter which refers to the public' or 'that matter which belongs to the public'. That is what government should be. It should be a reflection of what the people want and what the people need. We are not seeing this sort of government in Australia. Government in Australia is the suppression of opinion in the interests of existing governments. Until the Australian people are given full details of what is in this survey of the needs of Australian education, I will continue to protest and the Australian Labor Party will continue to protest in this House. 
I beg your pardon? 
I shall certainly ask it. If the honourable member for Diamond Valley is concerned as his interjection would indicate, perhaps he will write to South Australia and perhaps he will write also to  Sir Henry  Bolte and  Mr Thompson,  the Minister for Education in Victoria. If everybody in this House is concerned with education and where we are going pressure will be put upon the State governments. The members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party in this House could do their job by putting pressure upon the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and the Prime Minisiter  (Mr Gorton)  to ensure that this information is made available and that action is taken. Until something very serious is done in the field of education we will see continuing crises, as we have seen for the last 20 years. As far as I can see there is no sign that any of the great problems in education can be solved. Of course, the whole point about the survey of Australian needs is that nobody even knows where we are going and what the problems are. The Australian Labor Party condemns this Government for its refusal to give the necessary assistance to Australian schools. It also condemns the Government for its lack of interest and apathy towards social welfare. 
I am not going to traverse the field of pensions again. I think enough has been said about pensions. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  raises his hand to his head and says: 'Thank God.' But I think that the Opposition's case has been put very strongly in this House. We were not disappointed with the pension increase because we knew exactly what it was going to be. On the basis of past actions by the Liberal Government we could predict just how miserly and meagre the Government would be in its social welfare policy. The question of aged people in general does not relate purely to the pension alone. Aged people have a lot of other needs which are still not being given due consideration by this Government. I refer in particular to housing for the aged ill. I have the pleasure to represent an electorate which has one of the largest concentrations of pensioners in Victoria and, indeed; in Australia. It is natural that I should take this interest in the welfare of aged people. Just 2 years ago the waiting list for aged people who wanted to obtain subsidised State housing was a minimum of 5 years for a single unit and a minimum of 6 months for a double or married unit. The situation has not changed very much. The Commonwealth Government has been trying to do some things but as always it is a matter of the Commonwealth coming in and plastering gaps instead of trying to show any real imagination, foresight and understanding of the problem. There is no point in stressing that city councils, shire councils and municipalities can provide housing for the aged if the councils themselves are already going through financial crises, as indeed they are in Australia. 
It is not unnatural that the hope the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has placed in councils to provide housing for the aged since 1967 has been entirely pointless. In 1967 the aged persons homes scheme was amended in such a way that it was possible for city councils to provide housing for the aged. The Commonwealth subsidised on a $2 for $1 basis city councils and shire councils which were prepared to provide accommodation for the aged. Just how futile this policy has been can be quickly seen from the small number of councils which have responded to it. Over the last 3 years a total of 9 councils throughout Australia have contributed to accommodation for the aged. The total number of people accommodated in housing provided by city councils has been 65. This is a mark of just how irrelevant some of the policies of the Liberal Party are when they are based on foundations with are not secure. Since 1967 accommodation has been provided for 65 people by 9 councils. lt is interesting to see this situation against the background of the number of councils in Australia. For example in Victoria only 2 councils have responded to the offer of assistance by the Commonwealth to subsidise them in providing accommodation for the aged. They are the Moorabbin City Council and the Oakleigh City Council. The total number of councils in Victoria is 210. In New South Wales only 2 councils have joined in this scheme. They are the Gloucester Shire Council and the Manilla Shire Council. The number of councils in New South Wales is 224. In South Australia no local government body has yet participated. In Queensland 4 city councils have joined in and in Western Australia the shire of Koorda is the only one to have joined in. So far in Tasmania no local government body has participated. This is a mark of just how futile it is to rely upon city councils when they are in such desperate financial straits, ft is a mark also of the senselessness and the inequity of Liberal policy which relies upon city councils. Some city councils are well off. These are the ones which may be able to afford to join the scheme, but obviously they have not done so either. Some city councils arc poorly off and they could not join in, unless there were progressive representatives on the councils. My own view is that council government is one of the ideal areas in which an active role can be played in social welfare. But obviously something has gone disastrously wrong in this situation over the last 3 years. 
One other aspect of the problems of the aged is the crisis that is facing government nursing homes in the States. A very deplorable situation is developing in the care of the aged, the ill and the infirm, particularly in Victoria. The future looks very grim when one considers that it is most unlikely that people on the growing waiting lists for accommodation in State nursing homes can be accommodated. The relationships between the State govern ments and the Commonwealth Government over recent years have been so bad that it is not possible to hope that sufficient moneys will be provided for State governments to provide the nursing home accommodation that aged and ill people require. At present in the State of Victoria 7,992 beds are provided for aged, ill and infirm people. This figure breaks down to a ratio of 3 beds provided by the State Government, 3 beds provided by business enterprise nursing homes and 1 bed provided by charitable and religious organisations. One thing is very worrying about all this. Not enough money is being provided for State governments to provide State nursing attention for the aged, ill and infirm. A part of the problem is, of course, the poverty of State governments and the whole pattern of subsidy which has grown up over recent years for the accommodation provided by State governments. Until the Commonwealth Government is prepared to pay greater amounts of money in direct grants to the State of Victoria and until it is prepared to change its system of subsidy to a more liberal form the waiting lists in Victoria will continue to grow and aged people will be forced to rely on private nursing homes whose main motive in providing this accommodation is their own profit. This is very worrying to me because in my electorate where there are 2 of Australia's best nursing homes and hospitals, already the total number of people on the waiting list is over 500 and this number is growing each year. 
That is right. In my own electorate there is a waiting list of 18 months to 2 years, and this is the normal thing in Victoria. While these people are on the waiting list their mental and physical health is deteriorating. Many of them - it is tragic to say - are dying simply because the Government refuses to recognise ils responsibility and simply because those requiring accommodation have become victims of conflict between the State of Victoria and the Commonwealth Government. 
I would like lo mention once again - and this is a subject which I have brought up on a number of occasions in this House - the breakdown in relations between Victoria and the Commonwealth 
Government over assistance for State nursing homes and institutions, paramedical services and home care services. I have been looking at the Budget estimates of expenditure this year and the amount that has already been spent in accordance with legislation introduced last year to provide Commonwealth participation in a comprehensive plan of welfare for the aged and infirm. Honourable members will recall the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act 1969, the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 and the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. My information is that the Victorian Government has still not agreed to participate in this programme. This is despite the fact that there are thousands of aged persons in Victoria desperately in need of accommodation, desperately in need of home nursing assistance, desperately in need of assistance from physiotherapists and chiropodists and other paramedical assistance. As far as I know Victoria still refuses to co-operate in this scheme. 
The scheme was actually brought in early last year. It was discussed by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in February. It should have come into operation from June 1969 but when one looks at the figures to see exactly what has been spent so far over the past year one sees a most disappointing and dismal picture because only a very tiny amount has been spent on home care services in Queensland and on senior citizen centres in South Australia. There has been a whole year in which the Government could have given this assistance - limited though it may be - to the States. When one looks at the estimates of expenditure for next year - and I advise honourable members to do this - one will see that the assistance offered by the Commonwealth is insignificant. This is amazing because part of the Commonwealth plan, whilst it is certainly good in intention and good in philosophy, is aimed at taking notice of current changes in the philosophy of care of the aged. One of the most important things that thinkers on this subject are beginning to realise is that it is very important for aged people to be able to remain in their own homes rather than be placed in institutions. On a comparison of the amount to be spent next year on such things as paramedical services in the home, senior citizen centres and the provi sion of welfare officers one will see that the Government has still really not gone very far beyond the old philosophy of putting aged people into institutions and keeping them there. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was criticising the Government's policy towards the provision of care for the aged, ill and infirm. I was describing what I regarded as an abdication of responsibility in this field. I said that I thought it was disgusting that the Government was giving such small support to the provision of State nursing home attention to the aged, ill and infirm. In fact, the Government's whole policy has been to provide minimal assistance in this field, and to allow private enterprise to come in on the basis of profit motive. The effect of this policy can be only to provide inferior services in many cases. In fact the service is so regarded by officials concerned with the problem. 
If an aged, ill or infirm person is forced, due to the lack of State nursing home facilities, to go into a private nursing home, in many cases that person will find that the essential paramedical services, such as occupational therapy, speech therapy and chiropody are just not available. So far as I am concerned there is something fundamentally wrong with the Government's order of priorities. If it is prepared to allow the extension of private intervention in this field in coming years, people who are in need of medical assistance will find in many cases that the services are inferior. In my view no institution can provide nursing home assistance as good as that which is provided by State nursing homes or many of the religious, charitable and voluntary organisations. 
Another thing which is very disturbing is the fact that private nursing home attention is very expensive. It is disturbing to me that private organisations are now being listed on the stock exchange and are bringing in quite good profits. In many cases it is being stated that private nursing home businesses can expect a return of from 12% to 15%, which is a good return in any man's language. It is not surprising that even beer companies are financing private nursing homes. A person requiring attention in a private nursing home can expect to pay at least $50 a week these days and the price can be as high as $80, $90 or $100. When we consider the pensioner whose sole income is the pension, it becomes quite obvious that many of the aged people of Australia are simply debarred from getting the attention that is their right. 
I do not see a bright future for State nursing homes. I have 2 nursing homes in my electorate. They are the best in Victoria and among the best in Australia. But I cannot see much possibility of an extension of these services in other areas because the Commonwealth's policy simply will not allow it. The Commonwealth will offer assistance for capital expenditure, but the real problem in providing nursing homes is the maintenance costs - the cost of running the homes, lt is all very well to offer the money to put up a building, but it is necessary also to finance the continued running of that building. These costs are extremely high. At present a nursing home can expect a minimum - originally from Commonwealth sources - of about $52 per week. This amount includes the pension of $15, but very few State nursing homes with to take the whole of the pension. In addition, if an intensive nursing care benefit of $5 per day is provided an additional $35 per week is available bringing the total to $52 per week. Sometimes a supplementary allowance of $2 per day is provided. If the intensive nursing care benefit of $5 is provided, in many cases the benefit of $2 for ambulatory cases is provided also. But that is by no means enough. The sad fact about this system of subsidies is that, as a maximum, only onethird of the people receiving attention in State nursing homes are receiving the intensive care benefit of $5. 
What are the costs of running a State nursing home? I have looked at some figures for the hospital in my home town of Bendigo for 1968-69 and I have found that the average weekly cost of maintaining a patient was $58.66. These costs have been rising and will no doubt rise again this year. Tn Castlemaine the cost of maintaining a patient was $51.94 a week during 1968-69. So one can see that even if a nursing home receives the maximum benefit of $5 per day for an intensive care patient, this is not enough. I remind honourable members that at a maximum only one-third of the people receiving attention in State nursing homes are receiving this benefit. The Victorian Minister for Health has said that about 80% of people in nursing homes are not getting the maximum benefit of $5 but in fact are getting $2, so it becomes impossible to run the Slate nursing homes. 
The alternative means of providing attention for aged, ill and infirm people are the city councils, voluntary bodies or the organisations which are run with profit as their principal motive. I was speaking earlier about how little response there hud been over the last 3 years to the Commonwealth's offer of assistance to city councils to provide attention of this kind. I think I said that about 65 people had received accommodation as a result of the Commonwealth's policy in this area over the last 3 years. In other words, about 2 people per month are receiving accommodation from councils. But the voluntary, charitable and religious bodies are in exactly the same sort of position. Indeed, in some cases they are in a worse position than the State-run nursing homes because they have the same sorts of problems but cannot expect the same generosity from a State government. So I do not see much future there. The sad and tragic fact is that there will be a continued increase of investment by private organisations in the field of nursing home care. So far as I am concerned, this in itself is a clear indication of what Liberalism stands for. 
The interest of the Liberal Party is not primarily in the welfare of the people: it is not primarily in the aim of providing the Government assistance to which we in the Australian Labor Party believe the people are entitled. Its concern - I cannot see any other explanation for it - is to allow private investment organisations to come into the field of nursing home assistance with the aim of increasing their profits. It is all very well for Government supporters to look at the situation and to say that it is a problem of relations between the Commonwealth and the States, that the Government does not really wish to abdicate this field, but the plain and simple fact is that the Government is abdicating the field. 1 remind honourable members opposite that it is their responsibility as they are in government in Australia. The majority of States also have Liberal governments. You are the people who have let the aged people down. On this ground alone the Government deserves rejection and, if the Government has confidence in itself and the confidence that it says it has in public opinion, I challenge it to take up the Opposition's request to test public opinion. I support the amendment condemning the Budget. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the severe shortage of recurrent funds in colleges of advanced education. 
Have any (a) State Ministers for Education, (b) administrations of colleges, (c) staff associations of colleges or (d) other bodies made any requests to him for additional grants of recurrent funds by the Comomnwealth; if so, who made the requests. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Bendigo respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald' on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so adminstered. as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
One of the things that astonishes me - it is a prominent characteristic of almost every speech made by honourable members on the Government side - is the utter inability of those honourable members to recognise one simple fact about Vietnam today. That simple fact is this: Both the United States Government and the Australian Government are withdrawing their troops from South Vietnam. That is a fact that is inescapable. Yet almost every statement I have heard made by honourable members on the Government side tonight - and the same characteristic has appeared in the questions, the Dorothy Dixer's, served up to the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  on almost every occasion - gives the impression that nothing has changed in Vietnam; that we are still there seeking the same goal of military victory that we have been pursuing since 1965. Heavily flavouring many of the speeches made by Government supporters have been suggestions that we of the Opposition do not know what we are talking about. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  went so far as to cover the whole spectrum - the Communist left, the Communist dominated centre and all the diabolical areas that seem to worry the Liberal Party and the Country Party so much - in claiming that what was happening really was not dissent about this war, not genuine concern or a genuine belief that the war was responsible for the deaths of thousands of people, with no apparent end in sight and no apparent worthwhile objectives. It was all a conspiracy. 
The honourable member for McMillan can call it politics if he likes. So far as I am concerned, just about everything that came from the honourable member for Farrer and quite a few of the other speakers was in terms of the conspiracy theory. But when is the Government going to wake up to the fact that in a couple of years time there will be no more American troops in South Vietnam? When will it wake up to the fact that in a couple of years there will be no more Australian troops in South Vietnam? Why then can the Government claim that what we are calling withdrawal is illogical? Why does it accuse us of disloyalty and of having all sorts of dubious motives when we are suggesting that the Australian Government should be doing immediately what it is taking a couple of years to do? It is incredible. 
This situation has been commented upon on a number of occasions in the editorials of leading newspapers but the Government simply cannot recognise that the situation in Vietnam is changing. I remember a question asked about 2 weeks ago. It was a Dorothy Dixer. Le Duan or some top ranking officer in the North Vietnam politburo has written some diabolical statement to the effect that the aim of North Vietnam was to conquer South Vietnam. Who ever doubted this statement? If this is supposed to be the reality of the situation then why in heaven's name are we withdrawing Australian forces? Why are the 
Americans withdrawing their troops? It ls just so silly that these people who claim to know so much about the situation in South Vietnam and who claim to be so knowledgable about Asan affairs and American policies just cannot adjust themselves to one simple little reality. 
I want to make a few comments about some of the remarks made by honourable members on the Government side who preceded me in this debate. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is quite astounding. But then the honourable member reflects what so many honourable members on his side have been saying for so many years. The term 'success story' has been derided consistently by people who have criticised the American policy. These people are some of the forthright spokesmen in the American Congress itself. This dramatic 'Readers Digest' view of the world, which not even the 'Readers Digest' is so crazy as to purvey these days, is still being put across by the honourable member for Angas. 
One other point that the honourable member for Angas brought up - and this is something that worries me very much - is that we can look at the system of elections in South Vietnam and say that this is genuine democracy. But of course the honourable member for Angas let himself out very nicely by saying: 'After all, South Vietnam is at war; you cannot expect a nation at war to have a real democracy'. I would point out that a nation at war is a nation that must be united. There must be no divisions in a nation at war. A democratic system of government is the way in which all people and all dissident factions can be brought together. Because the Government of South Vietnam has not been prepared to share political power with so many of the dissident factions, South Vietnam is still hopelessly disunited. When the honourable member for Angas and so many other honourable members on his side of the House start to talk about stability I wonder really what they mean. There are simple historical factors about South Vietnam. I will not go into great detail about them but they are tragic and unfortunate factors which make this area of Vietnam almost impossible to rule. There are religious divisions, regional divisions and class divisions. There are all sorts of divisions. But these are factors that have been in that country for decades. In particular the misfortune of the South Vietnamese Government since 1954 has been its inability to portray itself to its own people as a nationalist government which can stand on its own 2 feet wilh dignity and a sense of pride. That has been the misfortune of the South Vietnamese Government. 
But what do we mean by the term 'democracy '? The honourable member for Angas said that all that is necessary is to have 7 elections, that 90 per cent of the people will turn up and this means democracy. Of course it is a start on the road to democracy. But the point is that almost all of these exercises in democracy in South Vietnam have been aimed specifically at one objective, and that is to legitimise the authority of those who have been in power. I suggest that those people who are so enamoured of the democratic progress that is being made in South Vietnam start to read some publications on this subject. They should start by reading, for example, Bernard Fall's 'Last Reflections on a War'. This was his last book on Vietnam before he was blown up. It is a collection of his essays. He has a chapter in this book on the democratic elections of South Vietnam. These elections were as fraudulent, as phoney, as deceptive and as dishonest as anything that the North Vietnamese can put up. The North Vietnamese have democratic elections. People vote for them. But the Communist Party candidates invariably get something like 90 per cent of the votes. 
I do not claim to have read everything by any means. But I do claim to have read some things and I am quite convinced by what they have said. One of the previous speakers referred to 'The Making of a Quagmire' by David Halberstam which seems to me to be quite a reliable sort of a book. David Halberstam by and large is sympathetic to American objectives in Vietnam. It is bad luck if they do not turn out right, but he is generally sympathetic. But there are some realities about South Vietnam. Honourable members opposite should not deceive themselves into believing that this is democracy in South Vietnam. Some of it is. I think it is very fortunate for some people in South Vietnam that the United States Congress and the United States people in particular are prepared to keep a very close watch over what goes on in South Vietnam because without that scrutiny by the American Congress South Vietnam would be even more undemocratic than it is. 
I would like to quote an extract from The Making of a Quagmire' by David Halberstam. I refer to the part of the book where David Halberstam writes about the elections in which Diem always received a vast majority of the votes and indeed Diem's candidates received more votes than the number of people who turn up to vote. That was quite the normal thing. He said what was happening in Vietnam was that South Vietnam was really becoming a people's republic without becoming Communist. It was a free world people's republic. This was obviously a contradiction of terms. On page 52 of his book. David Hal.berstam said: 
Eventually South Vietnam became, for all intents and purposes, a Communist-type country without Communism. It had all the controls, all the oppressions and all the frustrating, grim aspects of the modern totalitarian state - without the dynamism, efficiency and motivation that Communism had brought to the North. 
As I have said, David Halberstam is by and large a supporter of American objectives. He is not so foolish as to believe that this is a genuine democracy in South Vietnam. This is one thing frankly that worries me very much. What are we fighting for and what will we offer the people of South Vietnam? I doubt whether the alternative we are offering them is sufficient to justify the slaughter and destruction of Vietnam that our commitment there alongside the United States has been responsible for. 
A number of other comments were made. I am frankly disturbed about the Vietnamisation programme. After all, what this means now is that, whereas in the past the Americans were prepared to sustain the major burden of the war in South Vietnam, it has now been turned back to the South Vietnamese to handle by themselves. The South Vietnamese are going to fight on in what is still going to be partly an American war, only they are the people who will be killed from now on. We are walking out; we are washing our hands of it and leaving this conflict entirely in tha hands of the South Vietnamese. 
I would like to say something about a comment that was made by the honourable member for Farrer. He referred to the fear of the increasing Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean. I think the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  made the very obvious point that if the Government expresses this fear and is genuinely concerned about it, what is it going to do? From what I have heard so far there has not been one Government spokesman who has offered to this House any solution to the problem of the presence of the Russian naval force in the Indian Ocean. We are supposed to be very, very upset about this. But I would like to read from an article which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 9th March. It is a summary of a Press statement made by  Mr Adam  Malik, the Foreign Minister for Indonesia. The article states: 

 Mr Malik said Asian countries should not be aligned to international defence pacts. Nor should they formulate a regional defence pact of their own. 
He said that there are no other countries in Asia which want a Russian presence. These nations do not want foreign powers in this area. I think he was also speaking on behalf of himself and the Indian Government when he said that they had agreed that there should be no foreign bases and that they were not prepared to go along with the Russians. One might comment there that the attitude of the Indonesian Government towards alliances and bases is in striking contrast to our own. We simply cannot imagine a world in which there is no American alliance, in which there are no American ships, aeroplanes or bases. Indonesia has got along without such alliances for years and that nation is expressing no hysteria at the thought of Western powers leaving this area. 
I thought the attack delivered by the honourable members for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  on the honourable member for Fremantle was rather amazing. It was a spurious attack. As I recall the honourable member for Fremantle said that it was a disastrous mistake that the administration of Sihanouk was overthrown. The honourable member was not looking at the motives of it in any sense whatsoever. He was talking about the effects of it. As far as I am concerned, if we look solely at the effects of the overthrow of Sihanouk I think it would probably be agreed that it was a mistake. I quite agree that: the Lon Nol Government, as far as I can see, was a constitutionally appointed government. It had every right to depose Sihanouk. It certainly bad problems inside Cambodia. It had the problem of the occupation of Cambodia by North Vietnamese troops. All the honourable member for Fremantle was talking about was the effects of the overthrow of Sihanouk. 
It is quite clear what the effects were because the North Vietnamese conducted an attack. They spread out from the sanctuary areas along the borders of South Vietnam and moved inland. Almost immediately, in view of the weakness of the Lon Nol Government  -  I understand the Lon Nol Government was almost virtually not informed of the move - the United States of America launched an invasion of Cambodia. The South Vietnamese Government kept up with the South Vietnamese troops and Cambodia for the first time was plunged right into the malestrom of the war in South Vietnam. Obviously Cambodia had been engaged already in this war because of the occupation of certain areas by the North Vietnamese. That is undisputed. But at least the people of Cambodia, by and large, were saved from the destruction of attacks from the North Vietnamese, the National Liberation Front, the United States and the South Vietnamese. It is quite clear that what the honourable member for Fremantle said about that situation is true: The effects of the overthrow of Sihanouk were disastrous. 
However, there is no point in worrying about that. The only people who can reappoint Sihanouk, if they felt the inclination to do so, are the people of Cambodia. I rather doubt whether they have that inclination because they are offering quite substantial support to the Lon Nol Government. Sihanouk has made tactical blunders, if he is trying to win back popular support. He has aligned himself with a minority movement and, in some senses, an antinational movement. The only people who can deal with this situation in Cambodia are the people of Cambodia themselves. The attack by the honourable member for Evans was a fraudulent attack. 
To sum up, I would say that it is a discreditable and disgraceful tactic that the Government is using at present. It is attacking the Australian Labor Party and is attacking all of those people who basically support the Labor position on Vietnam, lt has charged them with disloyalty and untrustworthiness, almost in terms of treason in the minds of honourable members opposite who are in opposition to us, simply for suggesting that Australia should do with speed what this Government is doing over a protracted period. Let us face it: This Government no matter how reluctant it is and no matter how distasteful it finds this, is being forced against its will to withdraw troops in Vietnam and the Austraiian Labor Party wants to do the same. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister noticed reports that Malaysia's new Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, has called for the neutralisation of South East Asia with guarantees from the Soviet Union, China and the United States of America? What validity is there is Australia's forward defence policy of containing Communism, which is based on the alignment of Malaysia against Communism and therefore against the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China, especially when Malaysia is seeking guarantees from these  2  Communist powers for its own future? How does the right honourable gentleman reconcile Australia's forward defence policy with a policy of guaranteed neutrality for Malaysia? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Snake Gully the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown). 
Progress reported. 
I am pleased to second the amendment that the Opposition has brought forward. A number of points have been made by Government members about the role of the State and the Commonwealth in education. Invariably these references by Liberal members are concerned solely with means that can be applied to restricting the development of State education in Australia. There is no point in talking about the rights of States in education if the States are coming begging to the Commonwealth for assistance and if the Commonwealth is prepared to recognise its obligation to provide that assistance. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who has just left the chamber, upon his suggestion that there are grounds for very serious criticism of the way in which the Commonwealth is disbursing moneys to independent schools. At long last somebody on that side of the chamber can see some of the truth in the argument advanced over a number of years not only by the Australian Labor Party but also by many people outside the Parliament who are generally distressed at the extravagance and the squandering of public money. It was regrettable, however, that he was concerned with only one aspect of education and was not concerned to look also at the needs of the stale education system. 
My prime concern in this debate is to deal briefly with the survey of educational needs that has just been compiled by the State governments. This survey is a monument to the political dishonesty of the State and Commonwealth governments. It is a massive indictment of the apathy and contempt with which State and Commonwealth governments have treated state education over the last 2 decades. The survey brings home one simple and inescapable fact: The Commonwealth has so disastrously under-invested in state education that the most optimistic picture for the future of state education over the next 5 years can be only one of despair and gloom. 
I suggest to all honourable members that they get hold of a copy of this emasculated report, this summary of the report which I have before me, read the first few paragraphs and study in detail the information that follows. They will be very lucky if they can find any clear guidelines as to what the States really require. They will be fortunate if they can find any specific statement on what are the standards to be achieved for Australian education, what the objectives of Australian education are, what the quality of Australian education should be, how many teachers there should be, what their education should be, what the ratio of pupils to teachers should be, what the children should be taught, how many buildings there should be, what the buildings should be and what sort of equipment there should be. It is just incredible. 
This document is an insult to parents of children in slate schools, to teachers, to taxpayers in general and to all parliaments that are charged with the responsibility of looking to the needs of Australia in education. I notice that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  smiles slightly. I do not know why. As far as I am concerned this report is a disaster. Yet I assume that if the Government is to act at all in the next 5 years - a questionable proposition - it will act at least partly on the basis of this report. 
The report contains 14 pages and has taken 18 months to compile. 1 calculate that its length is about 4,500 words - slightly longer than an university undergraduate student's essay. It has less logic than a university undergraduate's essay. It contains less information and it has less integrity. It is a shallow fraud. It is a disgrace that the Commonwealth Government has not used its good offices to establish an open, thorough and independent inquiry into education. It is a disgrace that it has not used its good offices to ensure that all details of the reports brought down by State governments are made available for critical examination by all Australians concerned with the future education of Australians. Furthermore, it is a disgrace that no action has been taken so far, apart from what has been dealt with in the grants to the States, to cope with these fantastic needs of education in the future. 
What has the report concluded? I would briefly mention that the tentative figure of what the States will have for education over the next 5 years is approximately $6 billion. I suggest that this is a tentative figure because I believe that in the process of being compiled it has been emasculated by the Commonwealth. T refer here - T think this is contained on page 2 of the report - to the very tentative, almost concealed, statement to the effect that when the State Ministers brought their summaries to the Commonwealth - I think it was in May - the Commonwealth ensured that the final draft was revised. An entirely new document came out of the meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers in May. This was an incredible thing. Why was a revision of the original document brought down by the State Ministers? I believe this was for 2 reasons. It is almost impossible to find one's way through the cloud of vagueness that characterises this document, but apparently the Commonwealth had some concern about the economies of the States over the next 5 years. 
Equally interesting is this tact: So severe and so great has been the backlog of building requirements of State education over recent years that it was actually considered at this meeting between the Commonwealth and States that the building industry in Australia might not be capable of meeting the needs of new buildings and renovations to old buildings. This is an incredible thing. So great is the backlog, so great is the neglect and so great has been the apathy of governments, State and Commonwealth, over recent years that it was actually considered likely that the building industry of Australia would not be able to cope with the building needs of State education over the next 5 years. Accordingly, the document brought down by the State governments was revised. One might also add at this stage: Where is the Government's set of priorities? What is important? Is it important for us to go on building hotels, motels, boatels and supermarkets to supply consumer goods? Is this what we call prosperity? Is. this what we call quality of life? Should we not be setting our priorities along the lines of education? Apparently the Commonwealth has taken due consideration of all the other priorities and only the projects which are considered feasible over the next 5 years are considered in this report. I stress that the report is at once limited by the fact that it has to take account of what is feasible. Incidentally there is not much definition of what feasible means. 
The proposition that the States will have $6) billion over the next 5 year period has also to take into account the fact that this calculation is based on the assumption that the State governments will increase their expenditure in the fields of education covered in the survey by 10 per cent per annum. It also assumes that the Commonwealth will increase its grants to education for specific purposes by 10 per cent per annum. As for the assumption that we can rely upon the ability of the States to increase the amounts being spent on the subjects which were dealt with in the survey by 10 per cent over the next year, 1 would say that this is an excessively optimistic approach. I recall that only a few days ago the New South Wales Government increased its expenditure on education by $39.2m. As far as I can see teachers in New South Wales are requesting an increase in salaries of 12 per cent, lt is quite likely that the majority of the amount being allotted for an increase in education expenditure will be consumed by salary increases alone. So I say that the suggestion that the States will have 6i billion to spend on education over the next 5 years is a highly inflated and over optimistic picture. Indeed, the State survey itself shows that it may not be possible for the States to reach this situation. 
How much do the States need? They need a staggering figure - almost $8 billion dollars. There will be a short fall of approximately $H billion. I ask honourable members opposite to stop resorting to stone age concepts of State rights and State obligations and to recognise that here is a situation where the States have actually asked the Commonwealth to sit down with them, .work but their needs and give them the money. The question is not what is a State obligation and what is a Commonwealth obligation. The question is this: Is the Commonwealth Government prepared to stand by its national obligations to the education of young Australians? I can see no sign of it so far. It is deplorable that it has taken 18 months since March last year, when the decision was made to conduct the survey, for the survey to be taken. Yet, apart from this brief assistance in the grants to the States no significant emergency grants are to be seen in the future. Indeed, when the Minister for Education and Science replied to a question in this House last week he said once again that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had written or was writing to the States and that he would like to have their views on the situation. He went on to say that once he received their views they would sit down and they would have a nice little discussion. Once again it has happened. It is always procrastination - put it off until tomorrow and discuss, discuss and discuss. 
Meanwhile we keep on building up this second rate system of education which we call State education. It is second rate. I say this with no condemnation of any of the people who operate the system. It is a second rate system of education when I look at the facilities and the lack of objectives, the poor philosophy behind the system and the fact that the education system has struggled on decade after decade without any apparent guidance to where it is going. But of course second rate is good enough for the people of Australia. It is not good enough apparently for some of those wealthy private schools. The honourable member for Diamond Valley took some offence at the use of the term 'wealthy'. If the honourable member wants to know the Commonwealth's attitude on education he should have a look at a publication entitled Dept of Education and Science Reports'. On page 5 of this report under the heading grants for educational purposes, secondary science facilities scheme' there is a picture of a science laboratory. What sort of school do you think is in this picture? Is it a State school? The school is Prince Alfred College in South Australia. On pages 2 and 3 there are pictures of libraries which have been financed out of Commonwealth moneys. Are these State schools? Page 2 shows a picture of St Raphael's College in New South Wales. The library building on page 3, which was built during 1969, is part of Brisbane Grammar School. The principal of that school was outright embarrassed at the enrichment with Commonwealth moneys. He said that he did not really need them. That is how much the Government thinks of State education. 
There are so many other things that could be said about this report which is a survey of the needs of the States. However, I will mention just a few aspects. The thing that strikes me most of all about the report is the suppression of information, the abundance of generalities, the suppression of detail, the suppression of goals and the suppression of standards. We hear references again and again to the high quality education. But nowhere is this defined. We hear talk about the size of pupil increases. We are not told what the increases amount to. We are informed that more teachers will be required but we are not told how many more. Also, we are not told what their qualifications should be. Indeed, the survey very gloomily and probably realistically recognised one fact about the Commonwealth and it is this. It simply will not be able to get the teachers. The survey says at page 7: 
The survey does not envisage that within the5 years it will be possible to obtain a sufficient number of teachers to achieve the goals sought. 
It does not say why. There are some very tantalising and cryptic little references to things called some factors hitherto unfore-  seenapparentlybyalltheeducation  administrations of Australia, things like the rapid acceleration of social mobility. 
People are not becoming teachers any more; they are going into other jobs. We are not told, but one of the reasons might be that they are simply not being paid enough. Another factor is opportunities for overseas travel. They are all going to Canada. It is passed off as an opportunity for overseas travel, something hitherto unforeseen by the administrators of education. There is also a higher proportion of young married women not staying in the schools. Why not? If they are not staying why are not enough men being recruited into teaching? Yet we have this disastrous situation where over the next 10 years we must train at least 15,000 teachers annually. At present we train only 10,000 per annum. This is equal to the annual wastage rate of about 10,000. We now have 90,000 Government school teachers and by 1975 we will need 152,000. We will not be getting them. The Commonwealth will not be providing the money. It shows no evidence of providing the money. The States do not have the money. Indeed, the survey adds again the tantalising and cryptic little statement that it will be necessary to recruit teachers from non-local sources. This apparently means that we will have to import them from overseas. We are turning away thousands from our teachers colleges and universities so we will have to import teachers. It is a most disastrous and disgraceful document. The Commonwealth has played a hand in its final preparation. I call upon the Commonwealth to do what it can to give the money that is needed for investment in state education. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low, that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend these who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. 
It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray, that; 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. 
Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
And your petitioners, therefore, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We always listen with pleasure and delight to the benign, benevolent and beneficent humbug that pours out of the mouth of the honourable member forMallee  (Mr Turnbull).It  is an incredible thing about the Australian Country Party that whenever its members get up and speak about political representation invariably the two things that are identified are the prosperity and progress of the country people with the political survival of the Country Party. If I were the honourable member for Mallee I too would support the system of voting which he has spent 15 minutes of precious time talking about. After all, the honourable member for Mallee has only to tot up a total of 19,914 votes and he is elected. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has to work to obtain-- 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? The honourable member for Wills has to run up a total of 25,000 votes to be elected. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  who represents a city seat for the Australian Labor Party, has to run up a total of 31,458 votes. If 1 were the honourable member for Mallee and I were concerned with the Country PartyI would be most outspoken in support of the system that keeps that Party in power. After all, what is a system of rigged electorates and a system of preferential voting short of a system that guarantees that the party that invariably comes second comes first and the party that comes first comes second? It is a system under which those who always lose winandthosewhoalwayswinlose.IfI were the honourable member for Mallee very naturally I would support exactly the system of electorates that put him in power. He is invulnerable while the country electorates of Australia remain rigged and gerrymandered as they have been for years. 
One other very interesting thing that the honourable member for Mallee talks about is decentralisation. Is he talking about decentralisation of people? Is he talking about decentralisation of industry? Is he talking about decentralisation of economy? Of course he is not. He is talking about a thing called 'decentralisation of political power', which means in short the overrepresentation of the Country Parly. As a matter of fact he said last week that he did not believe-- 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Immigration 
Proposed expenditure $71,274,000. 
I direct my question to the Minister for External Affairs. Is it true that the Government's forward defence policy has traditionally relied upon Malaysia's alignment with the West against Communism? Is it true that the objective of the- 
We have just heard a sequence of anguished cries from perplexed tories - the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  Threaded through their speeches was a failure and inability to recognise the present world situation. We have heard all sorts of calls to arms: Churchilliantype phrases about what the Russians atc doing in the world: reference to the terrible situation that is facing the poor little Government of Rhodesia; cries of violence in the street and political power being taken out of the hands of the duly elected representatives of Australia and reference to our refusal to recognise Communist China and a refusal to recognise that Australia should disengage from the war in Vietnam. 
From the honourable member for Boothby once again we heard the cry of treachery - this was implied in his speech - by the Press for failing to identify itself with the particularly biased views of this Government. Of course, that is one of the essential ingredients of  toryism  of the Liberal style. The Liberals say: 'If the newspapers do not happen to agree with us, there is a conspiracy of silence'. They say that if we do not happen to agree with them, there is also a conspiracy of silence. What sort of a world is it in which they live where everybody is working to overthrow the duly elected Government of Australia? 
The point is that the Liberals' foreign policies and their defence policies are hairbrained, consisting mainly of humbug and appeals to all sorts of old-fashioned and outdated emotion and patriotism. The Australian people are getting sick of it, and the newspapers are also getting sick of it. When the newspapers and the people turn around and express their disgust, the Liberals say that it is a conspiracy of silence or an outbreak of turbulence inspired from abroad and activated in the streets by dangerous and diabolical people. We have had enough of this humbug. 
Let us have a look at a few of the points raised by the honourable member for Deakin. He asked: "Why not recognise Communist China? After all, we trade with her and she is probably no worse than Russia.' Incidentally, the honourable member for Boothby deplored the fact that people were failing to recognise that after all Russia was the main menace to the world. He might care to look through some of the writings of a former Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Paul  Hasluck. Under  Sir Paul  Hasluck it was the Chinese who had been raised to the front rank as the devils in the Asian area, lt was under  Sir Paul  Hasluck that the Russians were downgraded: they were good and the Chinese were bad. 
The same opinion was expressed last year. The then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Freeth - a Liberal Minister - actually welcomed the overtures of the Russians to come into this area. Gordon Freeth was very enthusiastic about accepting some sort of security pact with the Russians - the very people against whom the honourable member for Boothby was fatuously fulminating. Let us have a look at the criticism of China, which was levelled by the honourable member for Deakin. He said: 'Why should not we recognise China?' Then he proceeded to sort of put up a series of non-arguments against that proposition. First of all, he said that China demands the expulsion of Taiwan from the United Nations and, secondly, that China demands sovereignty over Taiwan. 
That is quite right. The Taiwan Government, which at present occupies a seat in the Security Council at the expense of a country which has a population of 840 million, makes exactly the same pretentious demands upon all other governments. The honourable member for Deakin also ignored one very significant fact about Canada's recognition of China, and it was that Canada was enabled to recognise Communist China without recognising the 2 arguments that he mentioned which were put forward by China. If the honourable member cares to do a bit of solid study he will see that the Chinese Government merely accepted from Canada a statement that the Canadian Government took note of the situation. He might also care to look at the situation  that has evolved in Malaysia, which will occupy the main part of my speech. 
The Liberals simply cannot accept the fact that the world in which they have lived for 20 years is changing. The Americans are going home. The Liberals say: 'Good God! We are all alone. We are lost. We do not know where to go.' The honourable member for Boothby says that it is a disastrous situation. The Americans are going home. The Russians are in the area, the Japanese are in the area and the Chinese are also in the area. The British are going home, too. Now the Malaysian Government - which, incidentally, is a Government similar in idealogy to this Government; it is a Conservative tory Government - has now conducted a revolution in foreign policy. It has simply changed its foreign policy. It is obvious that the 5-power arrangement between Malaysia, Singapore, the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand is simply not satisfactory to the Malaysian Government, so it has recognised the situation. After all, the Australian Government has no enthusiasm whatsoever for Malaysia. In fact, last year this Government drew the incredible distinction between Malaya and Malaysia. The Gorton Government said it would defend Malaya but not Malaysia. That is like saying: 'We will defend Austrasia but not Australia', or 'We will defend New Zea, but not New Zealand'. That is the sort of argument that was used last year by the Prime Minister, and it was just that sort of argument that lost years of accumulated friendship with the Government of Malaysia. The Malaysian Government realises just how lukewarm and politically motivated is the Australian Government's attitude towards Malaysia, lt is looking around and finding a new policy. It is prepared to accept that from now on Malaysia will no longer be aligned with the West against Communism and that the area in which Malaysia exists will no longer be aligned with the Western bloc. 
The Malaysian Government is calling for non-alignment. But this Government cannot recognise that the situation has changed. On 23rd September I asked the Prime Minister how he reconciled Australia's forward defence policy with the new policy statements that have been made by Tun Abdul Razak? The answer was: Don't twist up your face.' I asked him a question about Malaysia and he replied about Cambodia. Had I asked him a question about Cambodia he probably would have replied about Malaysia. I said: 
I want an  answer  to my  question. 
The Prime Minister said:  lt is no use twisting your face up like that. Cambodia is a country in South East Asia which was invaded by the Vietnamese- 
There was no comma there -  and we did take the diplomatic initiative . . . 
The point about his answer was that it was irrelevant. He simply could not face up to the changed situation. So we put a question to the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  asking how he reconciled the traditional justification of forward defence with the change in the Government's policy. The burden of his answer was: Really, the Malaysians just did not know what they are doing, because it is all very well to want to have neutrality, but to want neutrality is something different from having it. So really it was the Malaysians who did not know what they were doing. In any case, nothing had changed. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  served up a Dorothy Dixer and asked the Minister would he care to comment on the situation. The Minister for External Affairs came back with the reply that nothing had changed. Nothing had changed! A Tory government that had ruled Malaysia since independence, which had exactly the same outlook in foreign affairs as this Government, turned round and said: 'We will from now on be nonaligned. We want to live in an area in which there are no more great power rivalries, and we want furthermore our neutrality to be backed by two Communist powers.' And the Minister for External Affairs says that nothing has changed. Equally important is the view that the Malaysian Government is taking towards the recognition of China. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  conveniently omitted this fact. It is not just the Canadians who want to recognise China; it is the Malaysians also. But not even Australia's Minister for External Affairs can recognise that this is what the Malaysian Government is doing. 
I would like to quote from  ti  statement made by Tun Abdul Razak this month. 
His point of view was that China was a threat to the region and for that reason it must be top priority to bring her into the United Nations. That is the complete reverse to this Government's policy, which is that China is a threat to this region and for this reason she must be further and further isolated, alienated and contained. I merely make this simple statement, that the Malaysian Government puts it down as the main priority, that China should be brought into the international community. It is its first priority, says Tun Abdul Razak. The same sort of statement was made by Tun Ismail. The Minister for External Affairs, in answer to a question last week, ignored this completely. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
There is just one point I would like to deal with, and it is the question of forward defence which has arisen over recent weeks. The Opposition has put a number of questions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  on this issue. In each case the Minister for External Affairs and the Prime Minister have been bowled over. The fact is that the Government cannot recognise that the policy of Malaysia, on which our forward defence policy is based, has changed. That means that our forward defence policy - always, in my view, irrelevant - is becoming even more patently irrelevant now. I want to look at some of the views of the leaders of Malaysia. The important thing that I want to stress is that in that country was a government which traditionally relied upon the Western side for its security and its protection. No country in South East Asia has been so strongly in support of the Western side as Malaysia has been. But with a change of government and with a change of the world situation in this region the Malaysian Government's view of its own security and how it can rely upon neighbours and the great  powers  has changed. 
The striking thing about what has been said this evening and last night by Government members and supporters is that they refuse to accept this fact. We were misled on 14th October by the Minister for External Affairs when he said in reply to a question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam): 
Malaysia will vote against the important question but it will abstain from a vote on the actual recognition of Communist China. 
There is no doubt that that statement made by the Minister for External Affairs was wrong. Since then the Minister has answered 3 questions in which he has compounded his error. The important thing about the situation is that it shows that the Malaysian Government is looking for new relationships in its own region. Honourable members can refer to the statement made in 1968 by Tun Ismail, who is a very important voice in the Malaysian Government now. I suggest that honourable members opposite read bis statement of 22nd January 1968 in which he suggested that it would be necessary for Malaysia to establish a policy of non-alignment and that the area should be neutralised, that neutrality being guaranteed by Communist China. That policy suggestion is 2 years old. This has also been said by Tun Razak before he made his statement a few weeks ago. 
We have statements also by Tun Razak and Tun Ismail made on the 5th and the 10th of this month. The most important thing about it is that they have changed their policy. Honourable members can go and look, as the Minister for External Affairs has done, and say that the important thing is that they are still trying to ensure that Taiwan stays out, or they are still trying to extract guarantees from the Chinese that they will live as a friendly and civilised nation. Honourable members can look at all these things. This is part of the diplomatic language of a country. The essential point is that the Government of Malaysia is no longer obstructing the admission of the Chinese into the United Nations and, most importantly, it is moving in the direction of recognising China. Admittedly, the Government of Malaysia has said that this may take some time. If the Australian Government cannot recognise this basic fact, that Malaysia's policy towards China is changing, then it does not know the world in which we live and it simply cannot plan defence policies for this country, because they will be based upon a fallacy. 
The Minister for External Affairs, in reply to one question served up by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  said that Malaysia would be willing to co-sponsor a resolution admitting continental or Communist China to the United Nations. That is an admission of the point we are making. The Minister for External Affairs went on to say - and to him this is the important thing - that Malaysia believed that Taiwan China, that is, the Republic of China, should be made a member of the United Nations. That is not the important thing. The important thing is that the Malaysian Government is prepared to co-sponsor the admission of Communist China into the United Nations. In reply to a question by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  today the Minister for External Affairs said: 
Tun Ismail said that Malaysia would vote against the Important Question resolution. 
This is a fundamental fact. According to the Malaysian point of view, no longer will a two-thirds majority be required to obstruct the admission of Communist China. The Minister for External Affairs said that Malaysia would vote against the Important Question resolution and would abstain on the Albanian resolution. So if the issue was raised that Communist China should be admitted and Taiwan China should be expelled, the Government of Malaysia would abstain. This is a fundamental change in Malaysia's policy towards China. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The time allowed for consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Prime Minister's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $45,773,000. 
Department of the Cabinet Office 
Proposed expenditure, $255,000. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
In respect of each property rented or leased for Commonwealth use in Bendigo, what is the (a) address of the property, (b) name of the owner, (c) use to which the property is put and (d) rental and terms or conditions which apply. 
For how long has each Government department been renting or leasing property in Bendigo. 
What sums have been paid in rent for each Commonwealth department in Bendigo since rented property was first used to 30th June 1970. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many applications for married quarters lor personnel at Puckapunyal (a) have been lodged and (b) were still outstanding on 30 September 1970. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many officers resigned from the Armoured Corps in each of the years 1968, 1969 and 1970, and what were their ranks. 
How many of these officers were stationed at Puckapunyal and what were their ranks. 
To what extent is lbc Armoured Corps now under strength and what is the deficiency in each rank. 
I would like to comment firstly on a statement made earlier this evening by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr 
Street) and to link it with a statement made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  The honourable member for Corangamite refuted allegations made by the honourable member foi Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to the effect that the Government had done nothing to deal with the crisis in the wool industry. The honourable member for Corangamite said that the Government had doubled the grant for promotion and research. The honourable member for Mitchell made the statement when commenting on a letter he had written to irate wool grower constituents of his, of whom there are apparently hundreds. He said that he did not refute the statement made by one of the wool growers that some 80 per cent of the wool being marketed was not going through the auction system but was going through the system of forward buying. 
The point I want to make is this: The wool growers and the Government have invested a tremendous amount of money in the promotion of wool sales. I am informed that the sum total is up to about S350m now since the system of wool promotion was first introduced. We have also been told how much money has been allotted in the current financial year. The Government can continue spending millions of dollars on the promotion of wool but it will not get very far unless it gets down to dealing with the critical situation in the wool marketing system. That is the fundamental criticism which we of the Opposition make of this Bill. 
I was contacted recently by a person who is very influential in the stock and station business. He asked me whether it was true that $29m had been allotted for the promotion of wool. I replied thai as far as I knew that was the case. He said: Well, you should make a very close examination of wool promotion because for all the success it has achieved it may as well have been given straight back to the wool growers'. In his view the money was being wasted. I think it is time we took a very close look at bow the money allocated for wool promotion is being used. Obviously the honourable member for Mitchell has expressed some doubt about the way in which it has been spent. I think the time has come for a very close examination into how effectively this money is being spent on wool promotion. 
The honourable member for Mitchell spoke about forward buying. I want to refer the House to a comment which appeared in the 'Australian' in March. The comment related to a statement made by the  chairman  of the Squatting Investment Company of Melbourne. This is very important and it refers to the point mentioned by the honourable member for Mitchell. The  Chairman, Mr Balderstone,  said: 
It has been estimated that 80 per cent of the Australian wool clip was now sold firm by wool traders before it was auctioned. 
If this was so, according to  Mr Balderstone,  exporters had a financial interest in seeing wool prices decline progressively. There was no point in spending millions of dollars in publicity and promotion only to see its effects dissipated, he said, by unfair restrictive bidding in buyer price control at what should be competitive auctions. 
Two principles are fundamental to a serious approach to the crisis which threatens destruction to thousands of wool growers. Firstly, there must be immediate action to stabilise the industry's economy on a sound economic basis for the producers. In other words, there must be immediate action to control the marketing of the product in such a way that the producer will gain, firstly, his costs of production and, secondly, a fair return on the labour and capital he has invested in his business. It must be stressed that unless the grower is getting a price that covers both these essential requirements he is progressing towards not mere bankruptcy but outright extinction. It is not necessary to highlight the disastrous effect that the present crisis is already having in country towns. Its effects are evident everywhere in my electorate and can be seen in the stagnation of the economies of country towns. It affects also the cities, as was evident in the large scale retrenchments at Massey-Ferguson (Australia) Ltd, which also hit my city. Also equally deserving of emphasis is the disastrous effects that impossible prices have upon our export capital. 
What is the minimum price that the wool grower should be getting on average for his wool? In 1968-69 the overall Australian average price for greasy wool was 44.67c per lb. That was a year of credit squeeze, a squeeze on cost of production. Since then there has been an increase in costs, such as the increase in the cost of fuel announced in the Budget and an increase in the cost of merchandise. Small adjustments have been made in wages of station hands and shearing costs have increased. 1 suggest that it is hopeless for a farmer to carry on if he is receiving prices lower than 44.67c per lb. The fact is, however, that the farmer is becoming more insolvent every day. He is declining into bankruptcy. Equity in his property has vanished. It has lost its income earning capacity. Not only have livestock deteriorated in value but wool cannot be produced economically, and this means that there is no market for wool producing stock. Only last week  Sir William  Gunn stated that the average price for wool was 26c per lb. The collapse and threatened destruction of thousands of growers and their industry is dramatically illustrated by this figure. 
The second fundamental principle required to be recognised in any realistic and serious approach to the crisis is urgent and realistic government action, not mere window dressing and confidence tricks on the eve of an election. The collapse in prices has been continuing since March. I would like to set the record straight on just how long action has been urgently called for without the call being heard. In February the average price of wool was approximately 40c per lb. It quickly fell back to 32c. The price has progressively and disastrously worsened. In June it was approximately 28.35c. It is now 26c. Only the Government has been unable to recognise the crisis. For 7 months growers have been calling for urgent and indeed radical action. They have received neither. On 21st March a meeting of about 2,600 growers was held at Moree. One of the motions passed deserves comment. A report of the resolution states: 
At the Moree meeting on 21st March a resolution was unanimously adopted by the 2,600 present calling on the Commonwealth Government to forthwith establish a statutory authority to acquire and market the entire Australian wool clip, and that resolution incorporated the words 'and pursues that action with the utmost vigour'. 
I stress these resolutions by grower meetings to give the lie to the half-truth, or perhaps quarter-truth, that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  resorted to in his second reading speech last night when he said that the Australian Wool 
Commission originated in these meetings. But 1 will return to this point later on. Another meeting was held at Narrandera on 28th April, and 1,300 wool growers passed a similar resolution. It was rather interesting to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England),  who preceded me in this debate. He said thai procrastination is the price of government. When the matter goes back as far as this without any action being taken, it would appear that procrastination is not only the price but also, apparently, the disease of government. The meeting at Narrandera passed the following resolution: 
The Commonwealth Government be requested to immediately constitute the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation as a statutory body, under the Wool Board, to acquire and market the entire Austraiian wool clip. 
No, it has not been done. In reply to the honourable member for Riverina, 1 point out that it is ridiculous to say that this Australian Wool Commission originated in those meetings, because what these meetings called for was a statutory authority, not a board, to acquire, appraise and market the whole Australian wool clip. On 14th July at Orange a meeting of 1,500 wool growers chaired by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  called on the Government to impose an embargo on wool leaving Australia at less than 45c per lb in order to prevent buyers such as Japan from getting away with cheap wool. 
Of course that has not been done. No urgent action has been taken. As we see, procrastination is the price of government. In the meantime the New South Wales branch of the Country Party called for immediate action to prevent a drop in the price of wool below 45c per lb, pending the complete reorganisation - 1 stress those words - of the wool marketing system. I refer now to another meeting. In the last week of July the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales expressed strong support for the ultimate acquisition of the whole Australian wool clip. I would stress incidentally that back in April the Australian Wool Industry Conference voted unanimously for the establishment of a single marketing authority to handle the enure Australian wool clip. 
It is pure humbug and outright fra.ul and deceit on the part of the Minister for Primary Industry to state, as he did in his second reading speech, that the Australian Wool Commission that he has conceived has grown out of meetings such as those. His statement in last night's second reading speech was: 
The proposal for such a body- 
He was referring to the Australian Wool Commission- was supported at mass meetings of wool growers throughout Australia. The 2 federal wool grower organisations - the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - resolved to press for such a body, as did the national body of the wool growers, the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
The fact was that back in April the Australian Wool Industry Conference called for a single marketing authority to handle the entire clip. I stress the deceit of the Minister in suggesting that what these bodies and these meetings of growers that I have mentioned wanted was the abortion which he has finally produced. They wanted no such thing. They wanted urgent action to stabilise the price of wool at 45c per lb and they wanted a single marketing authority. The fact that they have accepted what they were powerless to reject is merely evidence of the truth of the old saying that half a loaf is better than none at all. In this context perhaps a better way of putting it would be that it is better to have a handful of crumbs when one cannot get a loaf. 
They had no alternative. It was a matter of a fait accompli being presented by the Minister. When one asks the question: 'Does the Bill before the House deal seriously with the crisis facing wool growers?', one sees that the answer must be no. I believe that this Bill is irrevelant to the real needs of growers. Lel us look at the  situation  in which it is being introduced. The Country Party is desperate about the Senate elections. At a recent meeting of growers at Hay - it was held on the 12th of this month - the wool growers passed a unanimous vote of no confidence in this Government. These wool growers are people who traditionally have been supporters of the Country Party. Yet they passed a unanimous vote of no confidence in this Government. It was a very well attended meeting. A second motion to oppose all Government candidates at the coming election was only narrowly defeated. 
Meantime the Government obviously is not aiming to fight the election on its chronic record in primary industry. A new and spurious bogy in the 35-hour working week has been whipped up to compensate for the waning market power of Communism at elections. This Bill has been churned out with abundant insincerity. The Government has not dared to debate it on a day when the proceedings of the House were being broadcast. It has given the Opposition 24 hours to consider the Bill. This is a fraudulent and dishonest Government. This Bill offers nothing to the wool grower. The 100,000 wool growers who are facing bankruptcy, and most of whom are completely insolvent at present, are offered nothing to stabilise their business. The Government offers nothing but a policy of escalating losses and accelerating poverty. The Bill will not restore economic income to farmers. 
Let us examine the principle on which the Minister for Primary Industry has stated the reserve price will be based. This will be a reserve price based on a level slightly below the level of the previous day's operation. Last week  Sir William  Gunn said that the average price of wool was 26c per lb. A figure slightly less than 26c is obviously an utterly hopeless and impossible figure for wool growers. Furthermore, in announcing the Commission the Minister said that it could bring about a 10 to 20 per cent increase in prices. Even if that were true and not merely a possibility, an increase of 20 per cent on the current price of 26c is a mere 5c. This would rise the price of wool to a mere 31c. In 1968-69 there was an average price of 44.67c per lb. In that year there was a cost of production price squeeze which was recognised throughout the industry by the growers themselves, by the banks and by the wool firms which were financing the industry. At the current 26c per lb, plus the 20 per cent increase mentioned by the Minister, the average price would be raised to only 31c per lb which would leave it at 30 per cent lower than in 1968-69, 25 per cent lower than the average at January of this year and at least 20 per cent to 25 per cent below the cost of production. 
Political exercises of the Country Party notwithstanding, the growers will continue to head for bankruptcy and extinction. Growers are not even given the certainty of so paltry a price rise as 10 per cent. The Minister has delivered the death blow by his promise that the Commission should not be expected to lift wool prices beyond that dictated by world supply and demand, in other words we are back to where we were. The Government's answer to disaster is continuing disaster. Not only are individual growers heading for extinction; the industry and the nation are accompanying them. 
I would like to raise a few points. J am extremely disappointed at the attitude adopted by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  so far. 1 can only explain his attitude in terms of excessive conservatism and over-cautiousness. The Minister has this afternoon been presented by the Australian Labor Party - admittedly at short notice - a number of propositions which I think are very reasonable. Our aim broadly is to widen the representation that there is on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. The reasons he has given so far for rejecting the suggestion that there should be 2 senators and 2 members of the House of Representatives on the Council have, I think, not been convincing by any means. The reasons which he just gave for rejecting the suggestion that the Canberra people should be specifically represented as a community are not convincing either. It does not make sense to say that just because they come from Canberra they represent the Canberra people. These people are elected specifically because of their known professional skills and their background. What we are asking is that the people of Canberra be represented for themselves. 
I think that one of the worst diseases that has ever afflicted Australia's education system is that which has divided educators from the people. In Australia the education system has grown up in a most over-centralised fashion and it has grown up in a way that has divorced it from the people. Education in Australia is run by bureaucracies and by governments. This is a very dangerous thing. Contact between the people for whom education is provided and the people who provide the education has been lost. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  referred to an example in the United States. There have been many defects in the way people in the United States have representation in their own education systems. Quite often I think it is due to excessive conservatism but one must accept that there is one very valuable principle of service and that is that education is for the people. This is the purest and simplest principle we are advocating here. Education is not simply a mystery to be understood only by those who have been initiated by bureaucratic experience. It is something that refers particularly to the people. 
I come back to the Canberra situation. We have a community here which from my own very small experience I would suggest is one of the most educated communities in Australia, one of the most informed communities and one of the most interested communities. This community is being denied the opportunity of having some direct representation on this Council. One might add also that the Australian Capital Territory is the most underrepresented area in the whole of this nation because the only significant representation this Territory has is through its Federal member in this House. It does not have a senator. 
A very good member indeed. Its local government is a farce. It has no power or authority whatsoever. There is very little connection between the people of Canberra and the people who govern the Territory. The only people who form a link between the governors and the governed in this Territory are those in this Parliament. Our suggestion that the Parliament should be represented on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education has already been rejected. The Minister is now about to reject another suggestion. I cannot see any reason whatsoever why education should not be opened up to the people themselves. It is a good thing that people should be interested in education. If the Government intends to continue to treat education as a mystery and as something only for those . who are specially qualified, the professionals - and that is the argument that is being put forward - it will continue to maintain the gap between the people and the educators. This will lead to continuing ignorance. It will lead to continuing apathy and this is a situation which should not be tolerated in the nation's capital. I think that if the Government has any imagination whatsoever - obviously it has very little - and if it has any sense of responsibility it will accept this recommendation of the Australian Labor Party. I have very great pleasure in supporting this amendment. 
The Bill before the House deals with a few slight odds and ends and, as a reflection of the Government's ability and willingness to deal with the real problems facing tertiary education today, it deserves very little consideration. The first point I make about the Bill relating to State grants for advanced education is that the Bill is concerned with giving grants to States to compensate for the differences in salaries that have arisen due to the implementation or partial implementation of the Sweeney report and of the Eggleston report. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is a statement that the States have either implemented or partially implemented these reports. In fact, from the evidence available to me the States generally appear to have failed to have implemented the Sweeney report. I stress the importance of the report that was brought down by the Sweeney committee. Its aim was to ensure that the quality and standards of education in colleges of advanced education were equal to those in universities. With that fundamental objective in mind it stated that the salaries of lecturers and senior lecturers in colleges of advanced education should be comparable with those in universities if the qualifications, experience and responsibilities involved were equal. The disturbing feature, as far as I can see, is that only Queensland has accepted the parity between the 2 types of salaries as was laid down in the report. This is a very worrying situation because obviously fundamental to the future status of these fairly new colleges of advanced education ls the necessity to ensure that the salaries provided for the staff are equal with salaries provided for staff in universities. 
I emphasise that from the very beginning the Commonwealth has taken a prominent part in the launching and establishment of colleges of advanced education. We have the report of the Martin Committee which was established by the Commonwealth. We have also the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education. We have the Sweeney report on salaries and we have had the Wiltshire report on standards. These 3 reports and 1 body show just how important the role of the Commonwealth has been in establishing and founding colleges of advanced education. No doubt there will be members from the other side of the House who will say that if the States have not fully implemented the Sweeney report it is, of course, the fault of the States. But is this a sufficient argument to use? I do not think it is because basically at the root of the problem of the States' refusal to implement these reports is the financial poverty of the States. It is all very well for the Commonwealth to suggest that the obligation is upon the States to provide the salaries involved, but the States are experiencing severe financial times. I should like to deal with this aspect later, but I make that point first of all. 
The most important point that I want to stress is that the Bill does not deal with the outstanding issues facing colleges of advanced education. The Minister or a spokesman for the Government may take the point that it does not intend to do so. My point is that the colleges of advanced education are going through a crisis and it is up to the Government to recognise this situation and provide the necessary action. But this just is not being done. What is the situation facing colleges of advanced education? If we look at the position in Victoria we will see it quite clearly. Last year the Victorian Institute of Colleges requested a grant of $58m for capital expenditure and $74m for recurrent expenditure for the development of Victorian colleges of advanced education. In fact the Victorian Institute of Colleges received not $58m which it required for capital expenditure but $30m - in other words, a cut of approximately 50 per cent. Instead of the $74m which it required for recurrent expenditure it got $52m, a cut of some 30 per cent. I stress that these colleges are fairly newly launched and it is most essential that they should have the capital necessary for their development. The grants that were made for the 1970-72 triennium obviously have not been adequate to the needs as laid down by the Victorian Institute of Colleges. The institute simply has not got the money. What is the situation as a result of that? If honourable members look at the 'Age' of 2nd October this year they will see the headline: 'Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology Appeals for $lm to Buy New Equipment'. This illustrates clearly just how inadequate is the money that has been provided by the Commonwealth and the State Governments. The fact that one of the most important advanced educational institutions in Victoria has been forced to go to the people to beg for money to carry out its function is a very sad reflection on the seriousness with which this Government treats advanced education.I wish now to refer to a report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' of a statement made by  Mr George  Brown,  President  of the Institute's Council. The report said that equipment is needed in every one of the Institute's tertiary departments: It went on to say: 
While the current rale of Government support continues the RMIT can only look to industry and commerceto provide the money to fill the gaps existing in the present grants system. 
Later on the report in the 'Age' said: 
The Acting vice  president  of the Victorian Institute of Colleges  (Mr R. D. Parry)  said that the rmit had become progressively more overcrowded and its equipment more obsolete. 
There is a very clear reference to the attitude of the Victorian Minister for Education. He congratulated the Council for its initiative in organising the appeal. What a reflection this is upon a government that claims to be serious about tertiary education, when one of the more advanced institutes has to go to the public and beg for money.I refer to a letter which was published in the 'Age' on 28th May. The letter was written by the  Chairman  and Secretary of the Association of Professional Staff of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. This shows how desperate the plight of that institution is; it is short of recurrent funds. In their letter the gentlemen say: 
RMIT, despite its huge size, operates on a shoestring budget and would need several times what  it  gets to provide the parity with a university recommended by the Sweeney Inquiry. 
I emphasise that. That has been the whole stated objective of the Government's policy, to bring these institutions up to parity with universities. Yet these two responsible people are saying that the RMIT is relying on a shoestring budget. The letter continues: 
Consequently, staff requests for work loads to permit better quality of lecturing have been refused. Since the VIC was established, staff  conditions, staff morale and quality of lecturing have  not  improved. Dedicated lecturers are having their enthusiasm stifled  by  the 'establishment formula'  for  senior lecturers which seems to have  been  forced  on  Victorian colleges by financial limitations. 
What is happening is that these new institutions at the very beginning of their development are being progressively strangled by the Commonwealth Government.I lay much of the blame at the door of the Commonwealth Government for this situation. The letter of these 2 gentlemen of the Professional Staff Association continues: 
As a  society  of  professional staff  we  are con cerned  that  only  the  symptoms of the real disease  are  made known and not  the  basic reason. 
Obviously the basic reason is the fact that last year the request of the Victorian Institute of Colleges for capital recurrent expenditure was slashed by State governments and the Commonwealth Government. The situation has become quite desperate in these institutes of technology and other colleges of advanced education. We know that they are operating on a shoestring budget. These are multi-million dollar investments yet they are operating on shoestring budgets. They are desperately in need of recurrent funds. I asked the Minister for Education and Science a question recently concerning the situation of recurrent funds in these institutions.I received a reply on 28th August. My question was: 
Has his  attention  been  drawn to  the  severe shortage  of  recurrent funds in colleges of advanced education. 
Have  any (a) State Ministers for Education, 
administrations of colleges, (c) staff associations of colleges  or (d)  other bodies made any requests  to him  for additional grants of recurrent funds  by the  Commonwealth; if so,  who  made  the  requests. 
The Minister gave an honest reply. He stated what the situation had been. In his reply the Minister said that the recurrent budget for colleges had risen from $57. 4m in the 1967-69 triennium to a figure of $l28.3m in the 1970-72 triennium. The latter figure does not include adjustments with which we are dealing today caused by the Sweeney Report and the Eggleston Report. The reply of the Minister continued: 
No  official approach has been made for an overall increase in the recurrent programmes agreed  to  for this triennium by Commonwealth and State governments. The Staff Association of  the  Colleges  has  raised this and a number of other questions with me  and  they no doubt have also approached the State authorities.  I  have also received a number of personal representations on behalf of the Staff Association of the Colleges in this matter. 
There was a recognition there that many people involved in the field of advanced education were very concerned about the financial situation in these institutions. However, nothing has been done. I want now to go back to the situation that arose last year. Why is it that the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education, the Committee established by this Government to advise on the capital and recurrent needs of institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education, has not accurately reported to the Government what the needs of these institutions are? There is something fundamentally wrong with an organisation that can go to the Commonwealth Government and say: This is what we recommend' - implicit in that, of course, is 'This is what the institutions need' - only to turn around a year later and find that this expenditure which was recommended is obviously hopelessly inadequate. I recommend that the constitution of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education be very closely re-examined by the Government. It should be made clear that the function of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee is to advise the Commonwealth and this Parliament of the needs of these institutions. But what has happened is that the Committee has evolved itself into a creature of the Commonwealth and State governments because the report that is finally submitted to this Parliament is the end product of a series of consultations between the States and the Commonwealth. 
1 am very definitely suggesting that the final result with which we are presented here is the result of pruning down. We are not told what the institutions need; we are told only what the State and Commonwealth governments are prepared to provide. I do not think this is a satisfactory or acceptable task to give to a committee on advanced education. I return to the reply of the Minister for Education and Science to my question in which the Minister said that no official approach had been made for an overall increase. Obviously the State governments simply are not going to come to the Commonwealth and ask for additional recur rent funds, for one very simple reason: They know that for every $1 that the Commonwealth gives to them they will have to provide $1.85. In the state of financial poverty that is affecting State governments at the present moment they are not in a position to provide that. 
'Rot' says the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Perhaps he would like to follow me and elaborate in detail the situation of the State governments. Perhaps he can provide a philosophy for Commonwealth-State relationships which will get over the problem for which his Government is responsible. I believe that the o'nly way to deal with this situation is for the Commonwealth to accept full financial responsibility for tertiary education. As a poor alternative to that I believe the Commonwealth Government, as it does in the field of capital expenditure, should provide $1 for every $1 the State governments provide. I doubt whether even this would deal with the situation that has arisen. Nevertheless it is a suggestion that has been made by the Victorian Institute of Colleges; it has been made by staff associations; it was even made last year by the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education. Unless that is done there will not be a fair balance between the financial responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States. 
I think the situation has become very dangerous and very threatening to the future development of these young institutions of technology. I believe that the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education should be called upon by the Government to make an urgent report on the needs of the States. The Commonwealth should act immediately to make unmatched emergency grants to colleges of advanced education. I say that they should be unmatched grants because obviously if the State governments are required to match the grants they simply will not be interested ia paying their share. Unless this is done immediately the development of these institutions will be strangled by the very Commonwealth Government which has taken so prominent a part in the establishment and launching of these colleges. 
When I look at the holiday period which is now facing the Parliament, between now and March, I see that there are 4 months in which Government action of this kind could be taken. I am very reluctant to see such a long period of recess between the 2 sessions of Parliament when there is so much that needs to be done in this one field alone. Unless the Commonwealth is prepared to make these emergency grams for capital and recurrent expenditure, what will the situation be? Already these colleges are applying quotas on students intakes. The Minister replied to a question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 25th September. The reply concerned quotas in colleges. It is a rather startling and frightening prospect that has been opened up, that despite the youth oi these institutions they are already being forced to apply quotas. In New South Wales 4 colleges of advanced education are applying quotas on student intakes. There may be people on the other side of the House who will say: 'Well, there are quotas in universities. So what? Why worry?' 
My belief is that there should not be quotas anywhere. There certainly should not bc quotas at these institutions. Nine colleges Of advanced education in Victoria ace applying quotas and 4 colleges in South Australia are applying quotas. Quotas are also being applied in the  Western  Australian Institute of Technology and in the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. Unless urgent action is taken by the Commonwealth to deal with this desperate financial position, the threat of increased restriction through quotas will hang over the heads of the colleges. I believe that unless this action is. taken there will be continuing restrictions on the development and progress of these institutions. They will not get the quality and numbers of staff they require, nor will they provide the conditions of service essential for the staff to fulfil their roles sufficiently, according to the lines established by the Commonwealth Government itself, by its own advisory committee, by the Martin report, the Sweeney report and the Wiltshire report. 
These Colleges of advanced education will not be able to provide the variety of courses needed to meet their commitment or provide the distinctive variety of vocationally oriented courses. One might compare the situation there with that of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. It is difficult to imagine that such restrictions would be placed upon the development of the Canberra college. It is in a very fortunate position where the Commonwealth accepts full responsibility for capital and recurrent expenditure. I am very concerned also at the high cost of education at all levels of tertiary education. 1 am particularly concerned by the fact that the number of scholarships available for students attending colleges of advanced education is grossly inadequate. Recently the Commonwealth has taken very great pride in the fact that the number of scholarships available has been raised from 1.500 to 2,500. That is very good. It is an increase of 66$ per cent. But just how seriously does this deal with the problem? How seriously does it deal with the demand by students wanting to go to colleges and to have their way paid. 
This year the total number of enrolments of students at colleges of advanced education was 44.356. This year only 3,734 have scholarships, which is 8.4 per cent of the attendance. Let us look at how many students have applied for these scholarships. We must bear in mind that students in applying for advanced education scholarships would perhaps also apply for other kinds of awards. This year 43.375 applied for scholarships. The number offered was 5,491, according to the Minister's own figures. The number accepted was 2,653, of which 1,932 were entering their first year. This means that only 6 per cent of the total number of applicants received scholarships. 
I am not talking about universities and colleges of advanced education. The Minister has interjected with a very good point. The point is that students who attend universities are. on the whole, far better off. 
The point I am making is that students who attend these institutions are doing less well than students who attend universities. I repeat that only 6 per cent of the total number of applicants are receiving scholarships. 
Yes. I am sorry. I have got the point. There is a far greater proportion of students at universities who are receiving scholarships. If my memory serves me correctly, last year approximately 30 per cent of the students who were attending Melbourne University were receiving Commonwealth scholarships. I do not think one could find many colleges of advanced education with an equal ratio of students in the advantageous position of receiving scholarships. One last point that I would like to refer to is that in his second reading speech the Minister for Education and Science referred to the establishment of teacher training facilities within the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The situation of teacher training also is going through a very desperate situation. The Commonwealth Government still has not accepted full responsibility towards tertiary education as a whole. It accepts a responsibility towards universities; it accepts a responsibility towards colleges of advanced education, but it is totally artificial to accept 2 aspects of tertiary education and to ignore the third. They are to be treated as equal partners in tertiary education. 
Unless that is done the position of teacher training will be at a disadvantage. I make that statement on these grounds: If the salaries of staff at colleges of advanced education are raised to bring them up to university status, without the salaries of people attending teachers colleges being raised, those people in the teachers colleges will be enticed away from those institutions. They will leave the job, and people who are not of the same quality will be attracted to it. Morale within the teacher training institutions will be low. That is the situation that has occurred throughout Australia. It has certainly occurred in Victoria. There has been a sequence of letters to the 'Age' over recent months in which lecturers at teachers colleges have highlighted this very point They have been stressing the inequality of a situation where people with the same qualifications, possibly the same experience and the same responsibility who are employed at colleges of advanced education are receiving higher salaries simply because they are at colleges of advanced education. Lecturers are leaving the teachers colleges to go to the colleges of advanced education. One letter showed that a senior lecturer at a secondary teachers' college in Victoria was receiving an income of $2,000 lower than that of a senior lecturer at a college of advanced education. This blow to the morale of the teaching service, this confusion that will be felt by others within the colleges has to be dealt with. I believe that the situation cannot be dealt with properly until the Commonwealth accepts the responsibility for these colleges because while teachers colleges are under the control of financially tight State treasuries then the salaries paid by them will continue to remain low. 
Last year when the Armidale conference was held one of the most important points that was brought down was something that has been obvious to the Labor Party for quite a long time but still has not been accepted by the Government. This was that the 3 types of tertiary education have to be accepted as equal partners, and they are certainly not being treated as equal partners at the moment while the Commonwealth refuses to accept any responsibility for them. The Commonwealth may on the other hand say that the colleges are still very much under the control of the education departments which are reluctant to give them the sort of autonomy which would justify the Commonwealth granting the sort of financial assistance that it gives to colleges of advanced education and universities. But I would like to see the Commonwealth take more initiative in this field and let the State governments know that if they are prepared to grant the autonomy necessary to teachers' colleges then the Commonwealth would enter the field and accept the financial responsibility for them. 
We have a quite arbitrary system at the present moment. Those teachers colleges which have attached themselves to colleges of advanced education are finding, as is mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister, that the Commonwealth largesse will fall upon them. Those which, on the other hand, by a quite fortuitous set  of circumstances, have remained under the control of the State governments will not receive that generosity from the Commonwealth. It is quite an artificial situation because obviously people who are lecturing at a State teachers' college under the authority of the education department are doing exactly the same sort of work as those people, we will say, who are attached to the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education mentioned in the Minister's speech or those people who are lecturing in the Canberra College of Advanced Education. It is quite an anomalous situation and I do not think the problem of placing staff at teachers' colleges will be properly dealt with until the Commonwealth is prepared to come in and accept a financial responsibility for them in the same way that it has accepted a responsibility for colleges of advanced education and universities. Nevertheless, one has to accept - speaking broadly about the Bill that is before the House - that it has come to the rescue of the State governments in the problem of finding extra finance as a result of the Sweeney and Eggleston reports, but I still believe that the problem is far, far greater than the one that is dealt with in the Bill. The Minister may say that the Bill is limited. Of course it is limited. I recognise this. Nevertheless, the problem is one that is affecting colleges of advanced  educaation  throughout the nation and I would like to see very urgent action taken to examine the financial needs of these institutions and I would like the Commonwealth to make emergency grants accordingly. Otherwise, 1 believe, these institutions will continue to suffer strangulation. 
I would like to raise a very important matter which is very intimately concerned with my electorate. Last year the increasing dissatisfaction* and frustration of servicemen over pay - and conditions were dramatised by 2 events. Royal Australian Navy personnel and Royal Australian Air Force personnel took what amounted to industrial action in dissatisfaction over pay, and their complaints received almost immediate attention from the Government. These 2 unprecedented examples of direct action by servicemen finally compelled the Government to take action on the question of pay and conditions by setting up the Kerr Committee. 
I beg to differ. 
I rise to support the motion put forward by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I believe that every member of this House should be here today to support this motion which is designed basically to test the bona fides of the Government and to ascertain whether every member of the House is prepared to view seriously the responsibilities that he has to the people who depend upon benefits from the Government. The motion should not be defeated. It should be accepted and the Government should be compelled to take immediate action. What we are dealing with here is not an unimportant situation; it is a situation of increasing poverty which has been brought about by this Government. Irrespective of whether honourable members opposite belong to the Liberal Party or the Country Party- 
The Standing Orders should be suspended because the motion before the House deals with a situation of prime importance to a very large section of people in Australia who are in need. It has been brought before the House out of sheer frustration at the Government's refusal to accept its responsibilities to people who depend upon social service benefits. It has been brought forward because we want the Government to act. For that reason I second the motion. 
All I can say about the speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is that it was a disgraceful performance. Fancy him trying to pass the buck to the Australian Labor Party for the situation the pensioners are in at present. The Minister actually blamed the Australian Labor Party for the present inflationary situation because it has supported the unions in their demands for increased wages. The embarrassment of the Minister for Social Services is only too easily understood. After all, this is the man who is supposed to put the case of the pensioners, and of all the people who are in need in Australia, to the Government. Whether or not he has done it - whether he has tried or whether he has not tried - he has not succeeded. He stands here this afternoon as the representative of a government which has attracted the contempt of the Australian people because of its attitude towards pensioners and people in need. So we can understand why the Minister came into this House afternoon with tremendous embarrassment. 
We can understand his unease earlier this afternoon when he successfully defeated an Opposition motion to make this a matter of the Parliament passing an opinion. The Minister did not want anyone among the backbenchers on his side to be put in the embarassing position of expressing his opinion of whether the Opposition motion should be supported. What he wants is a nice pleasant little urgency motion on which neither he nor any other person on his side will have to commit himself to supporting the feelings that we have expressed. This debute will go on and the Minister will retire into his little cubbyhole with his embarrassment hidden. He will want another 3 or 4 months and nothing will be done in the meantime. This will be the position although as usual, we have had pledges that we have now reached the plateau, that the Minister for Social Services is mustering his posse and all his horses and that he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  are galloping off to the next 50c pension increase - depending of  course  on whether or not there will be an election this year. 
I have never heard such a lot of humbug as came from the Minister for Social Services. He disputed the criteria on which the Melbourne University study of poverty was based. If the standard of poverty is not to be related to the average weekly earnings of the Australian people, what is it to be related to? The Minister says it is to be related to prices. He adds that his aim has been to bring pensions up in accordance with the cost of living today. This is sheer humbug. When the 50c increase was granted last year the Minister for Social Services gave pension increases to only a section of pensioners. Therefore this increase brought only a section of pensioners up to the cost of living adjustment level. For example, as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  quite rightly pointed out that, with the exception of the married rate, age and invalid and widow class B and C pensions, the increased pensions granted did not keep up with the rising cost of living. The whole problem, of course, is that these increases were not adequate for the period which had just past; they are even more inadequate for the period with which we are now dealing. 
The Minister for Social Services said some very peculiar things. The Minister has been in this place longer than I have. He has had many more years here than I have. It is about time that he got away from the archaic habit of harking back to what the situation was 20 or 30 years ago. By using such a comparison the Minister may or may not be able to expose something. I am not concerned about that. What I am concerned about is the position of pensioners right now. The Minister knows - or should know - only too well that this is an affluent country. We have tremendous wealth. Last year the Government increased inflation by handing over $200m in taxation reductions. These reductions went disproportionately to people whose need was the least. The honourable member for Hume, who is trying to interject was one of those honourable members who voted against the Opposition this afternoon. He was not prepared to come out in open debate and say whether or not he thought that the Government should act on this matter. He should go back and tell the people of his electorate how he voted today. If the Minister cares to refer to the good old days - or the bad old days, as the Government calls them - of the Chifley Government - and I do not want to spend very much time on this - we will see that in the last few years of the Chifley Government the base rate pension for single age and invalid pensioners was 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. This was the percentage for the years 1947-48 and 1948-49. That must be a measure of how well the pensioners of Australia had shared in the nation's prosperity. Of course, since then we have had 20 years of conservatism. During this time the percentage has continued to decline through 22 per cent to 21 per cent and then down to 20 per cent. If we accept the assumption of the Treasury last year that wages will increase by 8 per cent between 1970 and 1971, pensions will be 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. Of course, the question in a nutshell is: How well are the pensioners of Australia today sharing in the nation's wealth? Those who do not receive a proportionate share are in poverty or are in need. 
The Minister drew a fine distinction between need and poverty. The point is that need is the ultimate end; it is the very desperate part of poverty. We have enough wealth in this nation to be able to deal with both poverty and need. Let us look at some of the people about whom we are talking, for example, aged people. The position of aged people is scandalous. The Melbourne University survey discovered that more than 15 per cent of the aged income units that were surveyed were below the poverty line of 15 per cent. Of course, we can look at that figure and say: Let us take into account the cost of housing'. If this is done we can drop the figure down to 9 per cent. That is what the survey did. But even that 9 per cent is based on the fact that people can pay economical rents for sub-standard accommodation which no civilised community should be prepared to endure. So we know the position of pensioners as assessed in 1966 and brought up to date in 1970. Of course, the position is far worse now. 
The value of the pension has been eroded consistently. I do not know how some pensioners can live under this sort of system. For example, let us take the position of a single pensioner, who received a 50c increase in his pension and who is living in housing commission accommodation.  Sir Henry  Bolte, who is a good friend of the Minister for Social Services and of the Prime Minister, took away all of this increase in one fell swoop by raising rents for housing commission accommodation. The Melbourne 'Age' of 19th September 1970 stated: 
Pensioners rebate rentals will be raised a maximum of 50c a week for single people and 70c a week for couples. 
On top of that, since the Budget last year we have had a series of very sharp increases in municipal and water rates. I have had complaints from my pensioners about these increases. No doubt every honourable member on this side of the House knows about such increases. In many cases these rate increases have snaffled everything that the pension increase gave. 
Finally I want to refer to the position of fatherless families because I am very concerned about this problem. This is a very small section of the community but one which has the greatest need of all in the community. For example, the survey found that 30 per cent of women bringing up children by themselves were found to be in poverty and another 14 per cent were only marginally above the poverty line. The report said that the existence of poverty in this group was higher than in any other group. I could cover a whole range of social service beneficiaries. However, as I have only 10 minutes in which to speak I do not have the time to do so. The point is that we have called for urgent action by the Government. The honourable member for Oxley has set out in detail what can be done. He has set the price; it is very cheap. If the Government is to pass itself off as a government that is responsible to the people of Australia it has no right to ignore this urgency motion because it really is an urgent matter. Thousands of people in Australia are living in poverty and their poverty is increasing weekly because of the policies of this Government. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Can he say which (a) Slate Governments and (b) local councils give assistance or relief to pensioners in the payment of municipal rales. 
If so, what is the nature of this assistance in each case. 
What assistance docs the Commonwealth give to pensioners (a) direcily and (b) indirectly through State Governments and municipal authorities for the payment of rates to municipal authorities. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
How many of the social workers employed by the Department of Social Services in each State are engaged in (a) full-time and (b) part-time work in country areas. 
MrWentworth - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four full-time social workers are located in country areas and a further 9 country districts are serviced on a regular weekly basis. Visits at longer intervals are arranged for country districts in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. A further 2 full-time and 3 part-time social workers are engaged in work at provincial cities or outer suburban areas. By comparison the total number of social workers, excluding those on long-term leave, is 59. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Were delays of up to 18 months in the meeting of pay claims responsible for a 3-day go-slow action by lithographic personnel of the survey regiment at Bendigo in December last year? What action has been taken to remedy the causes of this spontaneous demonstration of dissatisfaction by soldiers of the Australian Army? Have the causes of dissatisfaction been removed? If not. will the Minister take urgent action to remedy such long-standing injustices which threaten the working and morale of this highly skilled and important unit of the Australian Army? 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
How many general medical practitioners are there in the districts of (a) Bendigo. (b) Castlemaine, (c) Maldon, (d) Heathcote, (e) Elmore, (f) 
Seymour, (g) Broadford, (h) Kilmore, (i) Gisborne. in the electoral division of Bendigo. 
How many of these doctors participate in the Pensioner Medical Service in each district. 
Is he able to say why general practitioners fail or cease to participate in the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of students in secondary schools in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth during 1970 in (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other private schools who (A) were enrolled for the third last year of secondary education,  (B)  sat for Commonwealth secondary scholarship examinations and (C) were awarded scholarships. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Army. Was the Minister aware that the Army in Vietnam was running down its civic action activities, or did the Army take action by default in the absence of any interest or decision from Canberra? 
 I rise to make some comments on the injustices of the Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme. This is a system which builds inequalitiy into education. It is a major obstacle to equality of opportunity for students. It ignores the needs of the great majority of students. It rewards social advantage and it punishes need. It can be guaranteed in looking at the allotment  Df  Commonwealth secondary scholarships that those people who need the financial assistance of the Commonwealth most of all are those who are least likely to receive it. Today I received from the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen a reply to a question I asked about the allocation of Commonwealth scholarships in 1970 to be available this year. I strongly urge all honourable members to look in today's Hansard for the reply to question No. 2762 because it reveals some very disturbing facts. 
As 1 said, the whole Commonwealth scholarship system builds inequality into education. For example, last year in Victoria 36,955 students enrolled in government schools for the intermediate course. That figure represents 74 per cent of all students taking intermediate in Victoria last year. Those students won 1,239 scholarships or 45.8 per cent of the scholarship* available. Catholic schools enrolled 8,183 Students, 646 of whom won scholarships, and this represents 23.9 per cent of those awarded in Victoria. At the other private schools 4,819 students were enrolled at the intermediate standard and 819 students or 30.3 per cent won scholarships. It can be seen from these figures where the vast majority of scholarships are received. Almost three-quarters of the students are enrolled in Government secondary schools and they are getting less than half of the scholarships, lt can be seen that 9.6 per cent of all students enrolled in intermediate are enrolled in the other private schools in Victoria and they are getting 30.3 per cent of the scholarships. 
The most interesting point is the percentage of intermediate students who received scholarships last year. Working out the figures on the. basis of the reply given to me by the Minister for Education and Science these are the results: Only 3.35 per cent of all students enrolled in Government schools last year in intermediate received Commonwealth secondary scholarships, while in Catholic schools 7.89 per cent of those enrolled in intermediate last year were awarded scholarships. When one looks at the greater public schools of which this Government seems to be terribly fond one finds that 17 per cent of all enrolled in intermediate last year received Commonwealth scholarships, and very substantial ones they are too. The average of scholarships received for the whole of Vic toria was 5.41 per cent of all students enrolled in intermediate last year. Those figures show that a student attending other private schools has approximately 5 times the chance of getting a Commonwealth secondary scholarship as a student enrolled in a Government secondary school and the student at the private school has almost twice the chance that a student at a Catholic school has of receiving a scholarship, lt is easy to see where the inequality is in this present system. 
This type of examination, known as Competitive Examination Based on Ability Regardless of Your Needs', will keep on reproducing a situation of inequality. I am particularly concerned about this because we are giving away money where it is not needed and it is being given away according to something we class as 'tested ability'. In my electorate of Bendigo it can be seen how irrelevant the Commonwealth secondary scholarship system is to the needs of students. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard 2 tables which set out details in regard to Commonwealth secondary scholarships awarded to students in the electorate of Bendigo. 

<graphic href="071131197103175_75_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197103175_76_5.jpg"></graphic>

I would like to point out some of the inequalities evidenced by those tables. In my electorate I conducted a survey of 7 Government secondary schools, one Church of England Girls' Grammar School and 7 Catholic private schools. Last year a total of 979 students were enrolled in intermediate in these schools. Of them 547 sat for examinations and 55 were successful. Therefore 924 students missed out. I will point to some of the inequalities. There are 4 Government schools with a total intermediate enrolment of 320 students. In those schools there were 135 candidates for the Commonwealth secondary scholarship examination and they received only 2 scholarships. Of those 4 schools one had an intermediate population of 103, 30 candidates sat for the examination but it received only one scholarship. Another school with a population of 104 and with 52 candidates received no scholarships. Another school with a total enrolment of 49 in intermediate had 16 candidates but received no scholarships. Three of the Catholic schools with a total enrolment of 45 did not receive one scholarship. This is an example of the inequalities in the system. 
Many of the children in my electorate are the children of low income families. If they are middle income families they are in the lower section of the middle income families. They are the people who are missing out. I will give an example of the problem which is facing us to indicate how unjust and discriminatory the Commonwealth secondary scholarship system is. I will refer to one school. This school was among those least favoured in the allotment of scholarships. It had a total enrolment of 440 students last year. Fifty students last year were getting special financial assistance from the Victorian Education Department, on the basis of a means test on a weekly income of $38.55 for a family with 2 children. To be in receipt of that kind of income, a person would have to be very low down the scale of wage earners. Of the 440 students, 50 qualified for special assistance. This was on a means test based on an income lower than the minimum wage of $42.30 last year in Victoria. If the actual minimum wage had been the means test, the school would probably have had an additional 50 children receiving special assistance from the Victorian Education Department. In other words, probably about 2 in 9 of the school's children were from families on very low incomes. Many of the children came from families living in poverty. 
I have more details about this school. A 1970 survey of the school found that 10 per cent of the school's children were children of pensioners or of widows; 50 per cent were children of labourers or of seraiskilled workers; 33 per cent had fathers in occupations ranging from semi-skilled to semi-professional; and 6 per cent had fathers who were foremen or professional people. Equally revealing are the family circumstances of the children at this school. A survey in 1969 showed that 47 per cent of the children were from families of 4 or more children. This is a clear case where inequality. poverty and low incomes were strongly entrenched. What was the Commonwealth's assistance to the children at this school? Only one student received a scholarship. Similar comments can be made about other schools in the electorate. One has only to look at the document that I have had incorporated in Hansard to see that a number of Catholic schools and a number of State high schools are in areas of low income. In fact, by looking at the results of Commonwealth secondary examinations one could almost guarantee which school is in an area of high income and which school is in an area of low income. I suggest that the present method of providing assistance is a very unequal and very discriminatory way of giving financial assistance to people. 
My belief is that everyone should be getting an allowance which would be sufficient to enable every child to continue its education to the best of its ability in the education system. This Government will not provide that assistance. If it is not prepared to do that, it should ensure that the money it provides is spent in the areas of greatest need. That would mean scrapping the present system and replacing it with a system which grants allowances and scholarships according to the means of the parents of the students. We are wasting the talents of thousands of children in Victoria and we are rewarding people who, in many cases, simply do not need the money. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Commonwealth bed subsidy to hospitals declined as a percentage of all hospital costs since the subsidy was first introduced? Have hospital costs risen faster than other costs during the same period? Do the States find it more  difficult to finance their hospitals adequately than the Commonwealth finds it to subsidise its own hospitals? Is the Prime Minister concerned with the crisis facing hospitals? Will he take steps to remove or relieve this crisis 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Have any (a) officers of bis Department or (b) teachers in the Australian Capital Territory been sent to England to observe and report on the operation of the Open University. 
If not, will he consider sending officers or teachers for this purpose. 
I rise tonight to make a plea to the Government that it make available to the States emergency grants so that they can effectively deal wilh the crisis that is affecting hospitals. I am particularly concerned about the reports which have been appearing over recent months, but which have been more dramatic over recent days, concerning the desperate position facing public hospitals whether in city areas or rural areas, and in particular homes and hospitals for the aged. This is not merely a Victorian problem by any means, because if honourable members look at the newspapers they will see that the same problem is present in all States. However, 1 am concerned with Victoria in particular. 
Over the last week there have been reports that Victorian hospitals - country hospitals, public hospitals in the cities and aged persons' hospitals - will face a combined total debt of at least $2Sm in the next financial year. This figure is conservative. That is to say, the combined debt of these hospitals is likely to be even more serious than this. The Melbourne Age' on 26th March broke down these figures as follows: Twenty-seven of the Melbourne metropolitan hospitals have a combined debt of Si 0.4m and country hospitals in Victoria have an overall debt of S3. 3m. Homes and hospitals for the aged are in a very desperate position; the Age' report quoted a percentage of these hospitals as having a combined debt of $1.5m. 1 do not intend to go into great detail about the ins and outs of financing hospitals. All 1 want to do is to make an urgent plea that the Commonwealth accept responsibility for this situation and recognise that the crisis can be removed or relieved only by its intervention. 
Just how this situation affects my own electorate can be seen in the situation facing Castlemaine and Bendigo in which are located 2 hospitals for the aged. The Alexander Hospital at Castlemaine has a total of 330 patients and the Bendigo Hospital has a total of 357 patients. In other words, these 2 State nursing homes have a total of 687 patients and between them they had a waiting list of over 500 patients last year. The financial position is becoming very serious indeed. For example, last year the Bendigo Hospital for the Aged had a surplus of $15,276, but by 30th June this year it is likely to have a deficit of $67,431. The figures that I shall incorporate later with the concurrence of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, and honourable members will set out the overdraft position. The figures will also show how serious the position is at the Alexander Hospital at Castlemaine. 
Reverting to the general situation through Victoria, it is clear that the position which has now been reached is very dangerous indeed. The figures which show a combined debt of $25m  do  not include hospitals for the mentally ill or private hospitals - and I am particularly concerned with the non-profit making private hospitals. Also, these figures do not include the extra burden that has been placed on hospitals by the 6 per cent national wage increase, the variation in the State incremental payments scheme, the new penalty rates for nurses or the expected variations to the wages of nurses which I understand are likely to be very substantial. A figure of 50 per cent has been asked for but perhaps 20 per cent or 30 per cent may be given. Whatever the increases are they will have a serious effect upon the hospitals. 
What does all of this mean? The situation is bad at present. It will deteriorate even further unless aid is given by the Commonwealth Government, lt is clear that the State of Victoria is not in a position to meet this crisis. No increase in income from the State Government for these hospitals can be expected until November of this year. The Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria has told the hospitals that they must improve their finances. This is a rather difficult sort of suggestion to make in view of the situation which the hospitals are facing. The hospitals have been told that no additional staff should be obtained and that casual and establishment staff vacancies should not be filled except in extreme emergencies. It is clear that many of these hospitals will have to cut back on important and vital services. For example, a representative of St Vincent's Hospital was reported in the Age' of 26th March as stating that the hospital would have to cut back on radiology, pathology and dietary services to the public. 
The Country Hospitals Association and the Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged said at their conference last week that they faced the prospect of dismissing staff, closing wards and turning away patients. This is an extremely critical situation. The Commonwealth Government must accept a major responsibility for this situation. This matter cannot be ignored with the claim that it is a State responsibility. With the concurrence of the Minister and honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a survey of the financial position of some public hospitals, general  hospitals and homes and hospitals for the aged which I have carried out within my electorate. As I am allowed only 10 minutes in which to speak on the adjournment I cannot give all of the details. Honourable members will see from these figures how critical is the situation in these hospitals. For example, if we look at the position of Bendigo Hospital, it is clear that medical services may be cut unless immediate financial assistance is given. This assistance will not come from the State. 
 I wish to raise a matter that is of great importance to a small number of people in my electorate. I raise it for the simple reason that I have been making representations on this subject to the relevant Ministers for about 18 months and I have received no satisfaction. 1 am sure that unless I do something about it in the Parliament tonight 1 shall be waiting another 18 months. The subject I am concerned with is the long service, leave conditions of men who are employed by civilian contractors undertaking work for the Army at Mob Siding at Seymour. Approximately 40 to 50 mcn are involved in this situation in my electorate. About 8 or 9 men are being denied their right to long service leave because of the procrastination of the Government. 
The problem is that they are civilian tradesmen and workers who are engaged in repair work on certain types of military vehicles at Seymour. The de facto situation is that these men are really employees of the Australian Army, but the de jure situation is that they are employed by a civilian contractor to whom the Army lets its contracts. The employees feel very strongly about the fact that they have given years of service to the Army and the fact that they have nominally been employed by a succession of civilian contractors, which disqualifies them from entitlement to long service leave. Some of them have been working for 15 or 20 years. Under normal circumstances they would be entitled to long service leave, but because the contracts which are let out to civilian contractors do not extend for this period of time these men cannot take their long service leave because there is nobody to pay them. 
I regard this as being a denial of a basic human right of the people whom I represent. I want to see some immediate action taken in this matter. There are alternative ways to deal with this situation. For example, the Government could discontinue contracting work to a private contractor and make the Army the sole employer responsible for long service leave, wages and conditions. The Army, in making these contracts, could write into them a clause arranging for and guaranteeing long service leave to civilians. This situation has gone on for a long time. 1 have been making representations for 18 months. My predecessor made representations to the Ministers involved. But still nothing has been achieved. Let me go through some of the correspondence that has taken place. My first letter written to the Minister for the Army was sent on 2nd September 1969 and urged action. I received a reply to that letter from the Minister for the Army on 6th October 1969. I received another reply from the Minister for the Army,  Mr Lynch,  on 23rd October 1969. He said: 
I have asked senior officers of my Department to  liase  wilh their counterparts in the Department of Labour and National Service to ascertain what can be done to assist these employees. 1 regret that these discussions are taking so long to finalise. 
That was on 23rd October 1969. I received another letter' from the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  on 21st January 1970 referring to discussions between officers of the Department of the Army and officers of the Department of Labour and National Service on the subject. The Minister said:" 
In view of these discussions, 1 have today written to my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service on the question expressing,  inter  alia, my concern for the employees affected. 
I have, asked  Mr Snedden  to write to you direct on the matter. 
Then there is a letter which I asked my secretary to send to the Minister for the Army on 15th April 1 970 to see what had been done. I received a reply on 24th 
April 1970 from the Minister for the Army. He said: 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has advised me that he has initiated a thoroughgoing review of the particular problems faced by those employees. As this will involve discussions with other Commonwealth authorities the matter may take some time. 
That was written on 24th April 1970, nearly a year ago. I received another letter from the Minister for the Army on 15th July 1970 in which he said: 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has advised me that the review which he initiated should be completed within about a month. 
When this further advice has been received shall write to you again. 
Another letter was received from the Minister for the Army on 25th August 1970. He said: 
I have received further advice from the Minister for Labour and National Service that the review which i mentioned in my previous letter to you is now complete. In the light of the results of this review further information is being sought. 
When I receive further advice from my colleague I will write again. 
A letter dated 19th October 1970, from  Mr Peacock,  Minister for the Army, reads: 
I refer to our correspondence about long service leave for personnel employed by firms undertaking Army vehicle repair contracts. 
My colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, has this matter under active consideration. 
Honourable members know what that means under extended procrastination. The letter continues: 
As you will appreciate, it is a complex matte and is taking longer to resolve than at first anticipated. 
I will write ro you again when the Minister for Labour and National Service has advised me further. 
Since then 1 have had correspondence from the Minister for Labour and National Service. Nothing has been done. Some 40 to 50 men are involved here and there would be a similar situation in other parts of Australia. At least 8 or 9 of the men whom I represent are now due for long service leave but they cannot take it because, although there is nothing to disqualify them formally and legally, nobody yet has accepted responsibility for paying them for their long service leave. I regard this as an example of bad government and maladministration by the Commonwealth. It has taken me 18 months so far. The representations have been dragging on for about 3 years and still the people whom I represent have received no justice, lt is about time the Government got down to looking at this case and started negotiating to give satisfaction to the people employed at Seymour. 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science, upon notice: 
What sunn, have been granted to each private school in the electoral division of Bendigo as per capita grant? in (a) 1970 and (b) 1971. 
Tonight I would like to raise very briefly the very severe economic position that is threatening apple and pear growers in the town of Harcourt in my electorate. I am very concerned about the position of this town because the growers are in difficult straits and because the townspeople and businesses that depend on them are also endangered. I understand that there are approximately 130 apple and pear growers in the area of Harcourt, which is one of Victoria's best known apple and pear districts. They have been hit hard by a series of natural and climatic disasters that have decreased their production and the quality of their produce. They have also been forced further and further into debt, to the position where it is virtually impossible for many of them to obtain money for further development. Many of them simply cannot carry on as farmers and a number of properties have been sold already at very low prices. In addition, the businesses in the area are very dependent upon the prosperity of the growers, and some of these businesses have incurred debts also in the process of becoming creditors of farmers. In addition to the natural and climatic conditions, there has been the threat of rising costs and decreasing returns, and in particular the hazards of uncertain overseas markets which cause little confidence in the future. 
I will describe, firstly, the climatic and natural conditions that have afflicted growers in this area. I think the situation reflects adversely on the failure of the Government to produce long term schemes that will cater for natural disasters. The growers have suffered large scale losses in production already this year, due to natural conditions. It has been suggested to me and to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who went to Harcourt last month to speak to the growers, that this year about 40 per cent of the pears and about 30 per cent of the applies have been lost. Since 1966 there has been a dismal succession of drought, bushfire, hail, wind and frost, which have hit the crops and the properties. They have also caused a serious loss in the quality of the produce, which has to be marketed in very competitive circumstances both at home and overseas. Just one example will suffice. In November last year many growers suffered a non-stop frost. This was followed by wind which, in turn, was followed by hail. Honourable members can appreciate quite readily just what effect that would have upon both the quantity of production and the quality of the produce. 
I would like to give the House some idea of what this sequence of disasters has meant by pointing to the financial position of one co-operative fruit growers society in Harcourt. When the management of this co-operative changed hands early last year it had been owed debts of about $145,000 in largely unsecured bad debts. Those debts, of course, were the result of the series of difficult economic times, and in particular, of natural disasters. An effort was made to collect some of these debts, but at the present moment the co-operative is still owed about $98,000. At the time the honourable member for Corio and I visited the town of Harcourt it was possible that at any moment the co-operative could go into receivership. This was the situation at the time when the co-operative could not be sure of receiving financial relief from private banking sources. 
The possibilities of bankruptcy for this co-operative society are very worrying because if that happened probably about 20 farmers would be sold up. That itself would not realise all the debts owing to the co-operative because some of the properties have multiple mortgages which total more than the value of the properties, and in any case the value of properties is exceedingly low because of the general recession affecting primary industry as a whole. But what concerns me most of all is the possibility of some 20 growers and their families being forced off their properties and the effect that this would have on such a small town whose community depends so much upon these growers. Obviously it would not be only 20 individuals; it would be them and the families associated with them, the businesses and the community as a whole. Other people also would be affected. For example, the men working at the timber mill owned by the co-operative and those in the shop and other related businesses would be affected. The effects of such a bankruptcy of the co-operative would be widespread and severe. 
Short term policies are urgently required to deal with the problems of Harcourt. What is required most of all, I should say, is the provision of long term, low interest loans to the growers so that their financial viability can be restored. This is a matter that demands prior attention. Unless long term, low interest loans are provided and unless the Commonwealth is concerned with providing for debt readjustment - that is very important - many growers may go out of business and those local businesses that depend on them will also be affected. In this context the Commonwealth's rauch vaunted rural reconstruction programme causes little confidence. Its effects will be limited to only a small number of farmers. I am concerned with many of the people who are involved with the economic problems of Harcourt who will not be able to benefit by it. lt is absolutely essential that long term low interest loans should be provided for farmers who are in trouble, partly because of the excessively high interest rates that have been charged by banking institutions and private financial institutions in the past. If growers have to depend on these same sources of high interest rate loans their troubles will not be relieved. Long term policies are also required. Planning at this stage should be at an advanced level. I know that it is not, and I know that the rural industries are going to be left as victims of the blind operation of the free enterprise or private enterprise economic forces which have brought industries in the countryside to their knees. 
The whole field of insurance for primary producers against natural and climatic disasters needs immediate and urgent attention. For example, it is virtually impossible to get insurance against hail. Where it is available through private insurance institutions its charges and the initial costs that have to be paid by the farmer make it quite prohibitive. Australia needs a national crop and livestock insurance scheme against natural disasters. The Labor Party would move quickly to establish such a scheme. There are many other suggestions that could be made. In the short time available to me I am concerned primarily with pointing out the position in Harcourt. However, I would like to make some other points briefly. 
The Government should be taking new initiatives to put fruit growers in a more competitive position. For example, it could consider relieving fruit growers of the costs of their inputs such as pest, disease and weed sprays. I understand that the New Zealand Government subsidises the cost of spray chemicals by SO per cent to enable New Zealand fruit growers to compete more effectively on overseas markets. In addition, spray chemicals are admitted duty free to New Zealand. One can readily see what sort of advantage this gives the New Zealand fruit grower, who is one of our competitors, in comparison with our own fruit growers. One of the most serious problems affecting fruit growers in competing for overseas markets is freight rates. There again we can look at the situation in New Zealand and examine what initiatives the Government is taking there to save the apple and pear growers. 
Yes. The New Zealand Government has been prepared to break the monopoly and, by challenging the monopoly of the conference lines, has been prepared to let contracts to Israeli and Scandinavian shippers. It has been able to save the apple and pear grower' $800,000 a year. That is a very considerable saving to fruit growers in New Zealand who must compete in the United Kingdom and Europe on the basis of price. One of the main factors in the price is the cost of freight. When we look at the apple and pear stabilisation scheme the thing we note is that there has been a dismal delay in implementing the scheme. That scheme was first announced by the Federal Government at the time of the Federal election in 1969 but there has been a very great delay in implementing it. There has still been no action on the implementation of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. 
I would like to comment on the situation regarding freight rates. I was talking about New Zealand before. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  asked a question on 25th February 1971 in which he sought Government action to break out of the monopoly of the conference lines. He suggested that as the conference lines required an extra $1 a case for the 500,000 extra cases which had to be exported this year, bringing the freight for each additional case to $3.24, ships other than those used of the conference lines should be employed. The then Minister for Primary Industry answered that the conference lines had agreed to charter additional ships in consideration of $1 extra a case. The Apple and Pear Board had rejected this offer and was making inquiries to find out what other shipping could be made available. It was not satisfied with the additional price that was being requested by the conference lines. The Minister made no personal undertaking. He said that it was the Apple and Pear Board that was not satisfied. Action of this kind, as was recommended by the honourable member for Wilmot, is important if we are to tackle these soaring freight costs because these are a major factor stopping the apple and pear industry in Australia from being a truly competitive export industry. 
The Bill that is now to be discussed by the House is entitled 'A Public Order Bill'. In the debate that has taken place so far there has been some very intriguing reference to something called a balance between the rights of a minority to express its dissent with the rights of the majority to go about its normal and every day life. I say that the reference to the balance is intriguing because I do not see the balance there. The Government has come down very heavily against those people in Australia who care to exercise their rights of dissent. 
This Bill is based principally upon public order. It is a law and order Bill which is concerned very little indeed with justice. This is a term which Government supporters speaking in support of the Bill have used very little because, indeed, there is very little justice in this Bill. There has been a discussion on this balance between the right of dissent and the right of members of the public to go about their normal every day business. .In fact, the Bill sets out only what minorities in particular cannot do. It does not set out what they can do. I believe that this is one of the most serious omissions in the whole Bill. 
Before going into detail about this Bill and the clauses contained in it, I would like to discuss the fundamental issue that the Parliament has been debating. What we are talking about is what sort of society the Australian society should be. We have used the terms 'democracy' and 'democratic' very loosely. If we listen to Government supporters we realise that they are concerned almost entirely with order. They are concerned with the orderly progression of the every day activities of the majority of the people. 
The view held by Government supporters is that democracy means that a government which wins power by gaining a majority of the votes is then constitutional and has the right to do virtually as it pleases for another 3 years. 
Well, I suggest to the honourable member that if he looks very closely at this Bill he will see that this is the very nature of it. If he listened to some of the debates that took place last year he would leuw that many honourable members on the Government side of the House regarded as offensive and usurping the power of Parliament and the Government that people should actually congregate outside this Parliament to express a view on Vietnam, on conscription and to try to bring influence to bear in order to change the view of the Government. 
The Government has always talked in terms of the pressure of minorities and the usurpation of the rights of government. Regardless of what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  cares to say, this is a traditional attitude and a traditional mentality of this conservative Government. Of course, when we talk about public order we talk about any society because any society requires public order. That is without question. Every honourable member on the other side of the House should bear in mind that what distinguishes a democratic society is not the extent of public order. The degree of public order is in fact a characteristic of a different type of society. The Chinese Government - whether it be the government of the People's Republic of Mainland China or Taiwan China - has a very considerable degree of public order. The point is that both of these governments are public order governments. Very little latitude is permitted in either of these countries for individuals or minorities to express their criticisms of their governments. The same sort of approach toward dissent and the rights of a minority characterises the Soviet Union. It also characterises the governments of Spain, Portugal and Greece. When we talk of public order, think again about what sort of society or government we have in mind. What in fact distinguishes a democratic society is the freedom and tolerance that the society gives to individuals and groups to think as they see fit, to feel as they choose, to express their views as individuals, to organise together as groups in assemblies, to express their views in order to publicise those views and to change government thinking. These are the characteristics of a democratic society. Honourable members on the other side of the House should bear this in mind. This is something which is not second to the everyday activities of the public; it must in fact take precedence over them. What the Government has done in this Bill has been to say that there are two factors - the democratic rights of individuals and public order. It is clear on which side this Government has come down. The Government has come down very clearly on the side of public order. 
There can be no truth whatsoever in the claim which is often made by supporters of the Government, and which lies behind this sort of Bill, that a government is democratic purely by virtue of the fact that it happens to represent majority thinking. Unfortunately, the Government knows only too well that it exploits majority thinking on the civic rights of individuals. But a democratic society cannot subordinate so grossly the rights - of individuals and minorities, as the Government does through this Bill. 
This is supposedly ' a public order Bill, it is in fact nothing of the kind. A Bill of this nature does not create public order and it does not sustain order. A Bill of this nature is an insult to individuals and to minority groups in Australia because it directly throws down the gauntlet to them and calls upon them to challenge this sort of Bill. Government members know it, and we have seen it all the way along. Once you say so blatantly to individuals: 'You shall not do this. Here is a law that has been brought in for the specific purpose of suppressing and limiting your rights' anybody with any political sense at all knows what the reaction will be to this sort of Bill. It is an incitement to public disorder. But even more important than the Bill are the nature and the actions of the Government that has produced the Bill. 
This is a cynical Government. It is  a  Government that creates issues that cause dissent. The Government cannot reasonably or rationally argue against that dissent. Its only answer is the mailed fist of public order legislation like this. How many Government members are there who over recent years and recent months have been able to go out and defend their Government's case on Vietnam and the National Service Act? Not too many of them. This Government has no policy by which to justify its Vietnam policy. One needs to look only at the changing opinions of the editors of newspapers to see that the policy by which the Government justifies its actions in Vietnam and on national service can no longer be sustained. But the Government does not have to argue its case. It does not have to rationalise its case to individuals, to minorities and to the growing number of people who are becoming resentful of its policies. All it has to do is to continue as it has been doing, out of sheer habit and lax imagination, to introduce a Bill like this to suppress people who are going to attack its policies. 
The Vietnam policy pf this Government cannot be justified. The National Service Act can no longer be justified. At the very time when this nation should be winding up its commitment to Vietnam - it should be the first nation out of Vietnam, not the last, as it threatens to be- at the very time when this nation should.be preparing itself for internal harmony, unity and peace, the Government introduces a, Bill like this which will continue to divide the nation. The Attorney-General.  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  sits, at the table with a grin on his face. He should consider exactly what he is doing.  His  predecessor has brought in a Bill which will enable him to deal with the very public disorder that his Government creates. For example, let us look at the issue of the South African cricket team which is to come to Australia. Why is that team being brought here? The Government cannot justify it. lt justifies it by the argument that to keep it out of Australia would be an intervention in the affairs of South Africa, as though the decision as to which people Australia receives must be left to the internal policies of the Government of South Africa. 
This Government says that the team must come to Australia because this is an internal affair of the sporting authorities of Australia. But what does the action of bringing those cricketers to Australia do? If the Government cannot realise that it is importing the violence and the discord of racial suppression from South Africa into Australia then it simply does not know what politics is about. That is the very thing that the visit of these racial teams to Australia is going to do. Every Government member should know that there will be demonstrations against this visit because the visit is an affront to people who object to apartheid and to the whole odour of the racial policies of South Africa in which this Government is only too willing to enmesh Australia. It is an incitement to violence, to disunity and discord within Australia. Yet the Government persists in this act of inviting the South African teams into Australia. At- the same time as it does that it brings in a Bill that will enable it, at least in its own territories, if necessary to deal with that sort of violence. 
But it is not the Commonwealth in this case that is so much at fault, because the Commonwealth and the States have produced the very same sort of law and order legislation that will deal with the public dissent that is going to come with the South Africans' visit. I said earlier that this was a cynical Government. Naturally, Government members opposite took affront. That was a nasty word to use about the Government. They are not cynical at all. They are honourable and just people. But where did this Bill originate? Last year it was created within the synthetic hysteria of the law and order mania that was whipped up by back benchers of the Government itself. It is very interesting to notice, for example, that it was not the Government, the Cabinet or the Prime Minister that conceived this legislation, lt was the back benchers. The Bill originated at the time when Dick Gregory was coming, in the mind of the Government, to Australia to incite violence and to destroy the Australian forces in South Vietnam. I have a quotation from The Age' of 7th September 1970. It says:   . . it is really the back benchers who have launched the Government on its law-and-order campaign. At a private meeting of the Government parties a fortnight ago, a number of them called on the Government to take on the Labor Party in a direct confrontation. 
It then refers to a man who, to all appearances, is the very essence of placidity. The article continues: 
Queensland Liberal MHR Nigel Drury led the call to arms. 'We must attack the ALP's policies and its subversive Left-wing elements', he declared. 'We must expose its nationalisation plank and its attitude towards defence and foreign policy. We . must show how it is linked with political disturbances and industrial disputes. We must destroy the Labor Party.' 
There is the atmosphere of artificial and synthetic hysteria in which this Bill was created last year. If the honourable mem bers do not think I am justified in using the word 'cynical' then they have only to look at the editorial opinions of newspapers, many of which are sympathetic towards the Government parties. At that time last year, on 27th August 1970, the 'Daily Mirror' said: 
Messrs Gorton and Askin, two astute politicians, have leapt aboard the already crowded law and order  bandwaggon 
It then referred to the disturbances which upset the public. It said: 
But none of this justifies the hysteria some members of the State and Federal Parliaments are generating. 
None of it warrants the sweeping, repressive legislation foreshadowed by Messrs Gorton and Askin. 
The West Australian' of 28th August 1970, in the headline to its editorial, said: 'A doubtful move'. The headline of the editorial in the 'Australian' of 28th August 1970 said: 'Law, order and politics of fear'. The Sydney Morning Herald', a paper which is not an enemy of the Government by any means, on Friday, 28th August 1970 referred to law and order. Once again there is a reflection of the same doubt about the sincerity of - the Government's motives in bringing in this legislation. 'The Age' of 28th August 1970 referred to order and liberty. Let me give some examples from the editorial of that date: 
But if the Government seriously pretends that Australian democracy is under desperate challenge it leaves itself open to the charge of over-reacting dangerously. Order and liberty are the basic elements in the democratic dichotomy and it is both wise and necessary to keep the balance under constant review. 
The editorial continues: 
However, society itself could be the sufferer if there is an unnecessary stock-piling of powerful legal weapons. 
One of the headlines in an editorial in the Canberra Times' of 28th August 1970 reads: 'An added provocation'. So there is the background against which this Bill has been introduced. Without doubt this is a cynical action which is not calculated to maintain public order but to increase public disorder. There are many things that could be said about this Bill. There are many aspects on which it can be taken apart and on which it can be displayed that this Government is applying unreasonable pressure and unreasonable bias against minorities who care to challenge its opinion. 
This is what we are concerned with here. It is the challenge to the opinion of established government. 
There is some point in the interjection because I am surprised at the large scale absence of members of the Australian Country Party. There are, of course, the arch exponents of public law and order. The Country Party claims to be the intermediary party between the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party. It is surprising that its members are absent from the chamber in such large numbers. I revert to the Bill. There are many examples of deliberate vagueness in the Bill. This Bill means that the rights of the individual are to be determined not by this Act of Parliament or by the Australian Constitution because they are not mentioned there, but by a policeman on the spot at a public incident and by the magistrate. 
The Bill contains a definition of an obstruction. If members care to read that definition they will find it loosely stated and in complex terms that an obstruction is unquestionably an obstruction. Then there is the ponderous circumlocution about what a vicinity is, and there again we find that, although some members of the Government are very skilfully trained in the law, they can still say that a vicinity is a vicinity. 
There is also the vagueness about what is called a reasonable apprehension. If a policeman feels a reasonable apprehension that an assembly will lead to damage to property or violence to individuals he can disperse that meeting. Merely by reason of this danger being apprehended, people become guilty not of doing anything but of being apprehended to be about to commit an act of danger. There is also reference in the Bill to a person who harasses a protected person or otherwise unreasonably interferes with the free and safe discharge of the duties of a protected person, or a person who behaves in an offensive, threatening or insulting manner towards a protected person, or a person who unreasonably obstructs a protected person. For a person who comes within that category there is a fine of up to $250 or a gaol sentence of 3 months, or both. The 
Bill will also make it an offence for a person taking part in an unlawful assembly on Commonwealth premises to possess a weapon, a missile or a destructive, noxious or repulsive object or substance. What is a repulsive object? To many people in Victoria a picture of  Sir Henry  Bolte being carried down the street would be regarded as a repulsive object. 
Most of all I want to say that many of the basic principles of established common law in Australia are rejected in this Bill. This Bill comes down heavily against the lawful rights of individuals and minorities to assemble and to express their individual and group views in an attempt to change opinions. Such an assembly, if a peaceful one that does not cause harm and danger to other people, must be the very essence of a democratic society, but there is no guarantee in this Bill in relation to such assemblies. 
Only one person on the Government side other than the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has shown any interest in this Bill whatsoever. Yet it is a Bill which involves the fundamental liberties of Australian citizens. Only one honourable member on the Government side apart from the Minister is prepared to stand up and justify the obnoxious clause of this Bill. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  took part in the debate only because he was stunned into reaction by some comments made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  This is one of the most dangerous and obnoxious parts of the Bill. In fact this is an incitement to violence. 
By looking at sub-clause (2.) of this clause and at the power which it gives to civilians, not policemen, to disperse a riot, it can be seen clearly that it virtually grants a charter of liberty to any individual who cares to break up a demonstration or assembly of any kind. Why do I say this? 1 say it because a policeman only has to have reasonable grounds to apprehend that an assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property or that the assembly is being carried on in a manner involving such unlawful violence and damage and the following situation occurs: A member of the constabulary gives a direction that the assembly will disperse and if the assembly does not disperse, in the case of those persons about whom the policeman has a reasonable apprehension any individual whatsoever can take part in dispersing the assembly. That is the situation where there is an apprehension by a member of the police force about violence or damage, but even worse is the situation where any civilian can break up an assembly where a direction to disperse has not been given by the police force. That is a most dangerous situation because it can be guaranteed that with powers like this it will be possible for agents provocateur, for members of the Democratic Labor Party, members of the Nazi Party and for other extremists of the right or, in other cases, extremists of the left, to cause violence. Civilians will be taking part in breaking up that assembly. 
What is most obnoxious about this provision is that a civilian may take part in dispersing an assembly whether or not he has been invited to do so by a member of the police force. I stress that, because the provision simply states:   . . it is lawful for a person to use such force as he believes, on reasonable grounds, to be necessary for that purpose and is reasonably proportioned to the danger which he believes, on reasonable grounds, is to be apprehended from the continuance of the assembly. 
All that is necessary is an apprehension by a policeman and the reading of an order to disperse, or an actual situation of violence and without a direction  by  a policeman to disperse, and any individual can, without invitation or order by a member of the police force, use force to break up an assembly. There is no control over the behaviour of that individual in dispersing the assembly. 
What this clause provides is an invitation to riot. Against whom can he take action? Not the people who are involved in the violence or who are apprehended to be about to cause the violence but every person who has refused, after 15 minutes, to obey the order to disperse. We could have a situation where 500 people are at a public meeting and 50 or 1 00 of their opponents are in the vicinity. The demonstration could be ordered to disperse. If it does not do so the 50 or 100 people could fly in with boots, fists and weapons. Of course it will be said 'using such force as they believe, on reasonable grounds, to be necessary'. That, of course, can all be checked in court later, but by the time the matter gets to court there will have been a few cracked skulls and physical violence will have been done to people whose only offence under clause 8(l.)(a) was not that they caused violence or were about to cause violence but merely that they refused to obey or neglected to obey an order given by a member of the police force. That is the situation which the Government is creating by this legislation. 
The Government says that this Bill is concerned with public order, but it is concerned with no such thing, lt is an incitement to riot; it is an incitement to violence; it is an incitement to public disorder. We see in the Bill the powers that are given to individuals and we find that it is lawful for a person to use such force as he sees fit. Many other things could be said about this provision. The first question which could be asked is this: On what grounds should an individual, other than a member of a police force, be involved in dispersing an assembly? Why are no limitations placed upon an individual? Why does the Bill not state that a civilian may take action if directed or called upon by a police officer so to do? The control of demonstration* requires tremendous sensitivity. It requires training. This is something that police officers must have. But what training have other individuals, such as members of the 
Democratic Labour Party, members of the Nazi Party or members of any extremist right wing group whose aim is to destroy an assembly? What training, skill or sensitivity have they in the art of dealing with a demonstration. I leave that part. 
The honourable member for Moreton has just said something, but a while ago it took him 10 minutes to say nothing. 
Then I apologise, but the honourable member must admit that I had a reasonable apprehension that he had said something. There are many other obnoxious points about this Bill. Clause 8(1.) states in part: 
persons taking part in the assembly have conducted themselves  in a way that has  caused  a  member of  a  Police Force . . . reasonably to apprehend that the assembly will be carried on in  a  manner involving unlawful physical  violence  . . . 
Many things could be said about that, but 1 shall have to leave other comments on this provision to honourable members who will follow me in the debate. What is this unlawful physical violence' and this 'unlawful damage' which is referred to? Why is there no limitation on the amount of damage? No standards are set in this Bill. For example, if a group of 500 people are taking part in a demonstration and 2 of them are involved in unlawful violence or unlawful damage, is that sufficient reason for a police officer to break up the assembly and deny the rights of 49S other men? There is nothing in the measure to say on what grounds a policeman must base his decision to disperse the assembly. 
What we are discussing tonight is Australia's foreign relations, and the characteristic of the foreign relations that must emerge from the debate which has taken place on the Government side is that this Government's policy is in a state of inanimate suspension. The policy has no drive or direction, lt cannot even react to current changes in world affairs and world events. It has no answers to the problems facing this country in its relations with its neighbours in the region. 
There is one vitally important subject that  1  want to discuss very briefly, and it is the forthcoming visit of the South African cricket team to Australia. I regard this as one of the most dangerous events that this Government could sponsor because  1  believe that from the point of view of international relations, this visit can only stigmatise Australia as being in collusion and sympathy with the apartheid policies of South Africa. This Government has taken the view that it can renounce its own responsibility in its external relations and its own responsibility for who comes into this country. I maintain that that is not possible. The arguments that have been advanced by the Government so far for renouncing its responsibilities - that is what it is doing - are, firstly, that to reject the visit to Australia by the Springbok cricket team would be an interference in the affairs of South Africa and secondly, that in any case this is merely a sporting affair and therefore must be left within the jurisdiction of the Australian sporting authorities. This is simply not the case. This is an argument based upon hypocrisy. 
For one thing, apartheid in South Africa is not in itself the purely domestic affair of South Africa. Indeed, it is an affair that concerns the whole world. It has been condemned as a major threat to world peace, and that is the context in which this situation must be seen. The suggestion, as an argument for its abdication of responsibility, that this is a domestic affair in which the Government must not interfere flies in the face of the fact that this Goverment has already made statements about the visit. Unfortunately, the statements themselves do not mean very. much. If one cares to read the statement which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made in this House, one sees that all he has said is that the Australian people regard the matter with bitter disappointment and regret - the Australian people, not the Government. In other words, the Government to that extent has interfered already. But most important is this: I believe that a distinction must be drawn here between the apartheid policy of the South African Government and the people who come to Australia on behalf of that policy and that Government. 
It must be conceded that apartheid is an international affair. It does concern us. Nevertheless, apartheid is a policy of the Government of South Africa and it is the responsibility of that Government. That Government has set its course along the line of apartheid and that Government must eventually pay the penalty for it. Australia has no responsibility directly for the apartheid policy of South Africa. But Australia does have a responsibility for the people who come to this country and the people who are coming to this country in the South African cricket team are people who are sent as the overseas travelling salesmen of that apartheid policy. That is quite clear. 
We cannot take refuge in the argument that this is purely a sporting affair. We cannot take refuge in the argument that to reject the visit is an unwarranted interference in the affairs of the Government of South Africa because this means that, in effect, we are accepting a visit to Australia by a sporting team not on our terms but on the terms of the Government of South Africa. With that sporting visit comes all the violence, all the corruption and all the inhumanity of the South African apartheid policy. It is for that reason that I believe that this visit is wrong and that it should be rejected. 
The most important reason why this visit must be rejected is the humanitarian principle that this nation must give not the slightest appearance of sympathising with apartheid or even of being unwilling to criticise it. Unfortunately that is the case. But the situation is that a more serious principle is involved. This is the principle of Australia's own self interest. No nation living in the geographical situation of Australia, with its neighbours being Asian and African, can afford such a gratuitous insult to its neighbours. Mark my words: There is no doubt that this visit, because it bears with it sympathy for South African apartheid, is an insult to the people of Africa and an insult to the people of Asia. One of the most important assets that Australia must have is the goodwill, mutual understanding and confidence of its neighbours. This visit subverts these assets. 
I wish to speak briefly about China. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has made the point very clearly that what we are talking about here principally is a matter of bringing rational relations into Australia's affairs with other countries. Australia simply cannot go on in the way that it has been going on for 20 years. We cannot keep trailing behind American policy on China. If we see a change in American policy on China, Australia must be the first to get out - not to follow the United States but to lead it. Unfortunately, this is just what this Government has not done. 
It is very interesting to consider the environment in which the original policy of military and diplomatic isolation of China evolved and to see some of the justifications on which this policy of separation of China from the world community was based. It is very interesting to note that, in the early 1950s, policy towards China was not created by the United States on a rational basis. It was created more within the framework of American domestic politics, and those politics were the politics of fear and artificial hysteria created in the McCarthy period of antiCommunism in the early 1950s. It is interesting to know that Dean Acheson and John Foster Dulles in the early 1950s when the Communist Party had taken control of the mainland expressed the view that the United States should wait, let the dust settle and see what emerged on the mainland. If the government in Peking was in effect the government of China, it should be recognised as such. 
These were early enlightened and practical views. But these views were crushed beneath the weight of McCarthyism within the United States and a policy of diplomatic and military isolation of China was introduced. Some of the aims of this policy of isolation were to bring about a breakdown within China. This policy was aimed at denying China its rights and recognition as a great power. It was aimed at continuing the civil war in China. It was aimed at stopping the spread of Communism. Here is an interesting aim wrich the course of history has passed by. This policy was aimed also at preventing the expansion of Russian power because, interestingly enough, in the early 1950s, the official American view in this environment of antiCommunism was that China was in fact merely an extension of Russia. It was Dean Rusk who went on record - and who for years later regretted saying it - that China was in fact not China but a 'Russian Manchukuo'. The policy of isolation and containment of China was aimed also at modifying China's aggressiveness and changing its outlook towards the world. 
Looking back over those aims after 20 years one can see today that none of those objectives has been achieved. For example, the objective of preventing the expansion of Soviet influence has been proved to be ludicrous in the first place because Russia is now No.  1  enemy alongside the United States in the minds of the Chinese. As far as the spread of Communism is concerned, it is hard to see any gain that Communism has made anywhere in the world as extensive as the gains that it has achieved in Indo-China. North Vietnam is Communist. Large sections of South Vietnam are under Communist control. Laos and Cambodia have been brought within the ambit of the Communist power. Nor has the isolation of China taken place. 
Indeed, the whole reason why the Government is beginning now to rethink its policy, although the burden of the argument on the other side has been denied, has been the fact that China now is gaining the numbers in the United Nations. In addition to that, Australia has trade relations with China and is only one of a very large number of nations that recognise the reality that China is a nation that buys and sells. So, the original policies and the original aims on which these policies were formulated now have been proven to have been ineffective. Unfortunately, the Australian Government cannot realise this situation. 
The argument is now being used that on moral grounds, and moral grounds alone, Taiwan cannot be abandoned. My opinion is this: I am not concerned to give a blank cheque to Chiang Kai-shek who has held illegitimate power in Formosa for 20 years. What does concern me is my belief that the native people of Taiwan have a claim to be a separate nation. It is for that reason that I would like to see their rights recognised. On the other hand, we simply cannot accept any pretensions by Chiang Kai-shek to be the ruler of Taiwan. There is nothing that we can do to change that; that is a reality. What we especially must reject are the fatuous claims of Chiang 
Kai-shek that he rules all China. It is the height of absurdity for the Government in this situation to have its foreign policy on a subject that concerns the peace of the whole world decided by one little man leading a carpet bagging government on the island of Taiwan. That is the reality of the situation. If we are to start talking common sense, we must recognise that the Government of Peking is the de facto government of the mainland of China and that there is nothing that we or anybody else in the word can do to change that situation. 
I am particularly concerned about this problem for the reason that the United Nations can never deal properly with the main issues of world peace while China is refused admission to the United Nations. If there has been one fundamental principle about the United Nations it has been the principle of universality. Incidentally, on 24th October of last year, during the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, a resolution was passed, supported by Australia, that all efforts should be taken to implement the principle of the universality of the United Nations. The Australian Government refuses to carry out that principle. One thing which is very interesting in the case of China and the United Nations is the view that has been taken by the Indian Government. Despite the fact that. in the 1960s there was serious trouble between India and China, India nevertheless has maintained the view consistently that it should continue diplomatic relations with the Chinese and should continue to press for the granting of legitimate rights to the People's Republic of China. On 20th November 1970 the Indian representative on the United Nations said: 
Our support for the restoration of the rights of the People's Republic of China is based on the principles of the universality of our Organisation as also on the provisions of the Charter. India is among those countries which have voted consistently on this matter for the last 21 years and which have taken a logical view of the question. As recently as 2nd October this year the Foreign Minister of India stated before this Assembly: 
We regret that the universality of membership of the United Nations has not been achieved. In particular, there is a general recognition that without the rightful participation of the People's Republic of China this Organisation will continue to face difficulties in solving several basic problems.' 
If we are to have a rational world in which all nations will be enabled to carry out their obligations as members of a comity of nations it is absolutely essential that China should be in the United Nations. The Government should leave aside spurious moral arguments because, in any case, as has been said, they are based on selective indignation. The Government should recognise one fact: The Government of China is here to stay. It has been here for 20 years and the Government should start to treat it with dignity as a sovereign nation. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is the Victoria Institute of Colleges the only body authorised to disburse Commonwealth moneys for the purpose of tertiary technical education. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science a question arising from his revelation of the appallingly high drop out rate in State and Catholic secondary schools. He will recall figures last week which showed that of all secondary students who commenced secondary education 5 or 6 years ago only 24.9 per cent of all State secondary students throughout Australia last year enrolled for their final year while the figure for Catholic schools was 31.8 per cent and for other private schools 79.1 per cent. Does the Minister know how far this discrepancy is produced by financial obstacles which prevent State and Catholic school students from completing their education? Is the Government concerned to know what other reasons account for this drop out rate? Does it believe that there is a loss to Australian society, and has it any plans to remedy this situation?  :  Mr FAIRBAIRN  - It is true that the number of people who commence secondary education in either government or Catholic schools and do not reach the matriculation standard appears to be extremely high. Nevertheless there are many reasons for this, one being that the numbers do not include persons who engage in diploma courses, technical training or other forms of training to fit them for jobs that they intend taking. I think it is only natural that the independent schools should have a higher percentage of students who commence secondary training and continue until they matriculate because very often those students come from parents who are  anxious to see that the students complete their training and who can afford to let them do so. Frequently these students go on to higher training at university. 
There has been a considerable improvement in the situation in recent years. In fact I am informed that over the last 6 years the number of students in government secondary schools completing matriculation has increased by 64 per cent; those in Catholic schools by 32 per cent; and those in independent schools by 27 per cent. Naturally the Government is extremely interested in every avenue by which it can help to improve the standard of education. The honourable member will know that the Commonwealth Government is interested in many fields of education. It is increasing the number of teachers who are being trained through its scheme of unmatched grants. Eventually these grants will make available something like 14,000 places for additional teachers throughout Australia. This is of considerable assistance. In addition the Commonwealth has instituted programmes for science laboratories and for libraries. The Commonwealth has seen that additional funds are available to the States because, after all, basically it is the States which are responsible constitutionally for education. 
This Bill cannot be regarded as being of great significance. Its only importance is that it extends the period in which money will remain available for pre-school teacher colleges. What I would like to discuss is the importance that the Australian Labor Party gives to the right of all children to a pre-school education. We believe that all children should have a pre-school education because of the considerable educational benefits that it can provide. But of equal importance is the strategic role which we believe the pre-school can take in an assault on inequalities between children. Inequalities abound at every level of education in Australia. They reflect the divisions of wealth and class within our society and they are consolidated by a combination of governmental apathy and outright discrimination. For particular groups within the community, such as Aboriginals, migrants and handicapped children, the education system is a one-way street to frustration. For other large sections of the community progress through the education system is determined less by ability and the desire to learn than by parental wealth and social status. These inequalities can be abolished only by a deliberate policy of social and economic change and by an educational policy aimed not merely at giving equal opportunities to all but at giving greater opportunities to those whose needs are the greatest. 
One of the key instruments to be used by the Australian Labor Party in achieving these ends at the pre-tertiary level is the Australian Pre-schools Commission. The Australian Pre-schools Commission to be established by the Labor Party will serve both a general and a specific function. It will aim to provide a pre-school education for every child and to give early treatment to culturally disadvantaged children. A pre-school education must be regarded as a right of every Australian child. Its value is paramount for a society which is concerned with the social, emotional, aesthetic and intellectual growth of children. In the environment of the pre-school the door is opened to a wider range of creative and imaginative activities than is provided in the homes and neighbourhoods of many children. The pre-school provides both the outlet and the avenue for physical and intellectual growth which are essential to the healthy development of young children. The foundations which the child's home provides for growth as a social individual and for the development of reasoning and communication skills are reinforced in an atmosphere which makes learning a happy and rewarding experience. The growth of self reliance and social co-operation gives this educational environment in the preschool a value that scarcely needs emphasising. 
However, this value is barely recognised by governments. The Commonwealth's expenditure on pre-school education is less than microscopic, and represents an insignificant fraction of its total expenditure on education. The Commonwealth's educational blinkers limit its vision to the end products of the educational process. Substantial sums are spent on the minority who are fortunate enough to get to the tertiary level of education, but the Commonwealth makes no direct grants to the primary schools and only nugatory grants to the pre-schools where the formal educational process begins. Such limited preschool facilities as do exist in Australia owe more to the initiative and imagination of parents, charitable and voluntary organisations and municipalities than to the enlightened intervention of State governments. The assistance of State governments varies over a range from negligible to unsatisfactory. Only about 3 per cent of the children of pre-school age in New South Wales are attending pre-schools, while the figure in Victoria is approximately 30 per cent. By comparison the Commonwealth recognises the right of all children in the Australian Capital Territory to 1 year of pre-school education. Thus the chances of a child's educational opportunities are determined not in accordance with the principle of equality and the needs of the child but with the fortuitous circumstance of where he. happens to live. 
At the same time, the use by State governments of a subsidy system to assist parents and voluntary organisations to provide pre-school facilities results in the discrimination which characterises the later stages of education. The subsidy system means that a child's educational opportunities are determined not by his needs and not by the Government's sense of responsibility, but by the accident of where he happens to live. Thus pre-school facilities are most abundant and most satisfactory in wealthier residential areas, and most lacking in rural and inner suburban areas where the facilities are needed most. Thus we have the situation in Victoria referred to by the Maternal and Child Welfare Officer of South Melbourne Council, Doctor Dora Bialestock, who was quoted in the 'Age' of 14th November last year as saying that the largest portion of the Victorian Government's subsidy for preschools was going to the more affluent suburbs. She said that only 1 child in 7 in the working class suburb of Brunswick and only 1 in 5 in South Melbourne were receiving a pre-school education. The same situation can be seen in my own electorate where the number of schools in working class and rural areas is inadequate and where the schools have long waiting lists. Yet not even the more affluent sections of provincial cities and towns in Victoria have top-grade pre-school facilities. 
At the same time, the fees charged for pre-school education impose a special burden on families of low income. In Victoria, the average fee per term is $13 to $15 at least. In some places in Victoria and in other parts of Australia the fees are far higher. The simple fact is that preschool education should be recognised as a right of all children and, accordingly, should be free. But for many parents, the fees are prohibitive, and many children who could benefit most from a pre-school education are being denied the opportunity. It is clear now that pre-school opportunities for all children can be provided only with the assistance of the Commonwealth Government. The States are limited in their revenues, and only slight improvements can be provided by them on their own. The Commonwealth refuses to recognise its obligations. While it guarantees to all children in the Australian Capital Territory the right to 1 year of preschool education, the assistance which the Commonwealth gives to the States in the form of capital grants for pre-school teacher colleges if of only marginal assistance and reflects a sense of concern for the welfare of Australian children which is only slightly greater than English governments in the eighteenth century showed towards Dame Schools. 
But even worse, the sheer materialism of she Commonwealth Government now threatens to build up a system of Commonwealth subsidised day care centres for children, which I believe will have little to do with the educational needs of children. Many of such centres as exist at present ignore the personal, social and educational needs of children and are aimed principally at caring for children while mothers return to the work force. Many of the existing child minding centres breed boredom, insecurity, poor intellectual development, sometimes poor health, frustration and conformity. That is not merely my view. This is the view that was expressed by Phyllis Scott, in her chapter in a book entitled 'It's People That Count'. Only a Government which is concerned with profitability and productivity in the economy rather than the needs of children could finance the expansion of such a system. This materialism must be replaced by concern for the needs of children which will produce a system of pre-schools for all children, and which will help develop creative self-reliant responsible and cooperative individuals. At least the Government should ensure that if it does intend to subsidise child minding centres or day care centres - or whatever other terminology the Government cares to use - it will balance and co-ordinate the principal economic needs that it is catering for with the educational needs of the children. 
However, the Labor Party's Pre-School Commission will aim not only to ensure equal access for all children to a preschool education but also to discriminate in favour of those who are disadvantaged by the limitations of home environment. Children from low income families, migrant children, Aboriginal children and handicapped children are unlikely to be equal to others in the level of intellectual and social skills which they have achieved by the time they reach the primary school. The middle class Australian child has already received from his home environment the advantage of greater opportunities for communication, for social confidence, for creativity, for reasoning of the type required by the primary school, and for motivation to be successful. 
By comparison, the migrant or Aboriginal child faces the massive obstacles of differences between his national and racial cultures and the culture of the white Australian school. The physically, mentally or socially handicapped child faces specific disadvantages which will severely retard his educational growth unless identified and treated early. The child from a family of low income, low education and low occupational status by comparison with the middle class Australian child will not have reached the same level of development of his basic skills of language and reasoning. 
The disadvantages faced by all these groups of children will accentuate and accelerate throughout their school careers unless they are treated at an early stage. The first few years of education are critical to the attitude which a child develops towards the school and to the abilities he acquires and develops. It is essential that every child should be and feel successful, both at meeting the intellectual tasks set by the school and at being a self-confident individual and member of the school's society. Therefore, while catering for the child's social and personal growth, the schools must strive to maximise every child's ability to communicate, to understand, to concentrate, to create and to find pleasure and satisfaction in learning. The development of these abilities must be continuous. The pre-school level is clearly a strategic stage for identifying and starting to remedy the deficiencies of the disadvantaged child. 
The Australian Pre-Schools Commission will treat the remedying of handicaps suffered by disadvantaged children as one of its principal tasks. The traditional rofe of the pre-schools, according to  Dr M.  M. de Lemos, writing in the 'Quarterly Review of Australian Education' of June 1968, has been seen as 'providing mainly for the social and emotional development of the child'. The emphasis has been placed on creative and dramtatic play, and the schools' task has been seen as educating the 'whole child'. Learning is largely spontaneous through self-directed activity. The teacher's role is seen as responding to the child's needs rather than imposing guidance or instruction. The value of this role in catering for largely middle class groups of children has been considerable. 
However, experiments over the last decade - particularly in Operation Head Start and other American experiments - have also highlighted the potential of a supplementary or alternative role for the pre-school in developing the intellectual skills and abilities that are essential for later school achievement. The handicaps which the child's cultural environment cause and in which the greatest retardation generally occurs are in the reasoning and language abilities. These abilities are fundamental to success at every stage of later education. It seems apparent, therefore, that the learning situation provided for the disadvantaged child by the preschool must be structured specifically to develop those skills. This is not to say that such specific and directed learning should be the sole or whole content of his preschool education, nor is there any one definition as to exactly what the teaching methods to be employed should be. 
Overseas experiments have indicated a wide variety of methods, and further and continuing research is required in Australia. But what does seem clear is that specialised teaching is required in the skills in which the disadvantaged child is deficient. The alternative is to treat him as though he were equal to the more advantaged middle class Australian child and to keep the pre-school oriented towards the present combination of emotional and social development and self-directed learning. This alternative, however, would ignore the already substantial advantages of the middle class child and is likely to leave the disadvantaged child with the same relative handicaps with which he entered the pre-school. 
Pre-school education must be a national concern. It is no longer tolerable that its growth should be haphazard, unplanned and unco-ordinated, distributing benefits to the few and ignoring the rest of the many. Its future development is possible only with Commonwealth assistance and national planning. The Australian PreSchools Commission to be established by the Labor Party will ensure that Commonwealth moneys will be expended first in the areas of greatest need. Rural and inner suburban areas, where disadvantaged children are concentrated, would receive attention first. Acting as an agency of continuing audit for the Commonwealth and State governments, the Commission will also assess the needs of pre-school education as a whole and will make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government as to the priorities which must be met. 
A great variety of deficiencies retard the growth of pre-school education. These include, for example, insufficient teachers and teachers' aides, inadequate salaries and studentships and limited research and inservice training. One of the functions of the Commission will be to survey the areas of deficiency and to recommend which problems should be tackled first. Of equal importance, it will examine continually the philosophy of pre-school education and act as a stimulus to improvement and change by encouraging research and experimentation. I believe that pre-school education is a vital stage of a child's growth. It serves particularly a strategic role in remedying the disadvantages of certain groups of Australian children. It is for that reason that I am very concerned that both the Commonwealth and State governments have shown such little concern for preschool education. I believe that the problem now can only be tackled by the Commonwealth Government and that Commonwealth assistance must be based according to the needs of children themselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I wish to refer to Service pay and conditions. In doing so I shall raise a matter which is of great importance to a section of the people whom I represent. It concerns some 60 men of the Lithographic Squadron of the Army Headquarters Regiment of the Survey Corps, which is located at Bendigo, Victoria. These men have suffered 3 years of unjustifiable discrimination at the hands of this Government because of its delay in making pay rises through . providing additional groupings. This procrastination by the Government seriously jeopardises the morale of the Squadron by creating dissatisfaction and unrest. It has already given rise to an outbreak of what could only be called industrial action in civilian terms when frustration over the Government's refusal to meet their pay claims led to a . 3-day go: slow last year. Since then the Government has still refused to take action to remedy the one simple cause of resentment. It could be remedied immediately if the Government had any sense of responsibility and any sense of the injustice which the men of the Lithographic Squadron feel so acutely. 
I want to stress to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Government as a whole that any continued inaction on their part will lead to a continuing decline in morale, and that the possibility of stronger industrial action cannot be ruled out unless the Government wakes up to itself. I wish to inform the Government that the men's feelings of alienation and their feelings of neglect by the Government have resulted in continued low levels of production by these men and have caused daily discussion amongst the men as to what sort of action they should take to publicise their grievances. The possibility of joining up with the trade union movement as a means of advocating their needs and defending their interests has been only one of the less drastic possibilities among the measures that the men are frequently considering. 
I raise this matter tonight on behalf of men who are denied any other avenue of drawing public and Government attention to their situation. These are responsible, dedicated and loyal men who have made the Army their life, but Army regulations deny them any means of drawing Government attention to their position, other than through the normal military channels, and these have quite clearly been futile. They have a just claim and the Government ought to be showing the same sense of responsibility and loyalty to them as they have shown to the Army. I have already given to the Government ample warning of the situation in the Squadron. My first non-public representations were made on 7th December 1970. I did not bring public attention to this matter until question time on 23rd February this year. 
The dissatisfaction of these men arises from the failure of the Government to grant pay increases through providing additional pay groupings. Two other units in the Survey Regiment were granted pay increases through additional pay groupings in 1969 and these were made retrospective to March 1968, when changes in the system of Army group pay were introduced. The lithographic personnel were assured that if their pay claims were lodged before 9th August 1969, and if those claims were granted, they would receive pay increases retrospective to March in the previous year. Although the lithographic pay claims were lodged before the due date, the men received neither a pay increase nor retrospectivity. This has placed them at a serious disadvantage, both in absolute terms and in relative terms. The result is that lithographic pay is low by comparison with that of civilians with similar skills, by comparison with that of other and less skilled personnel such as drivers and clerks, and also by comparison with that of cartographic and topographic personnel of the same Regiment. 
The events that led up to the go-slow in December flowed from the unbelievable confusion and evasion resulting from the Army's embarrassment as being unwilling or unable to tell the men what the actual situation was with regard to their pay claims. On 11th September 1970 the men of the Squadron were told at Bendigo that a second level of pay had been approved for personnel of certain categories and that a third level was under consideration for those who had passed the advanced course. I understand from the Survey Directorate itself that they were told in Bendigo that the pay would come through in 6 weeks or so, but 12 weeks passed and nothing had been done. 
In December 1970 the men were considering industrial action. The Government may shudder at those words, but that was the reality of what the men were contemplating. They were informed on 2nd December that even though the Treasury had approved a second level in pay the Army had refused to accept it. My information is that the men were informed in Bendigo that the reason for the rejection by the Army of this pay increase was that the Army wanted retrospectivity to 8th August 1969 while the Treasury was prepared to grant it only to October 1970. The facts of this situation have never been fully revealed to the men. This information, when it was passed on to the men of the Lithographic Squadron, came as a real smack in the face and depressed their morale to rock bottom. The result was lethargy and a feeling of hopelessness which led to a spontaneous 3-day go-slow. After this go-slow, on 7th December I sent telegrams to the Ministers for Defence and the Army, Treasurer and Prime Minister. I pointed out that the dissatisfaction in the squadron was known to the Directorate of the Survey Corps, and I said that I thought it should also be known to the Government. I called for urgent action on the pay claims as the only means of heading off a further decline in morale and the possibility of industrial action. 
On the next day, 8th December, I received a telegram from the then Minister for Defence saying that he was investigating the cause of the delay in meeting pay claims and that he would advise me of the outcome. On 15th December I sent a detailed letter to the then Minister for Defence outlining the situation as I understood it. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the letter which I sent to the Minister for Defence. It reads: 
Further to my telegram of the 7th December, in which I urged speedy action to finalize pay claims made on behalf of Lithographic personnel in the services, and in particular those of the Lithographic squadron at A.H.Q. Survey Regiment, Bendigo. 
The long and unjustifiable delay of the Government in dealing with these pay claims is the sole cause of the very serious dissatisfaction and unrest within the Lithographic Squadron at Bendigo. Unless speedy action is taken to finalize the situation of nay, I believe that the declining morale  will lead to industrial action, such as a stopwork, as the only means of impressing upon the Government the grievances of these men. 
Basic to these grievances are three factors. Firstly is the inadequacy of their pay by comparison with that received by similarly skilled personnel in civilian employment. For example, I am informed that a married sapper (Group II) receives $70 per week (this includes basic trade pay plus all allowances) while the lowest paid lithographic draughtsman in civilan employment may earn up and over $100. .Secondly, many other army personnel, of less skill, such as clerks and drivers, are able to earn more than highly skilled personnel of the Lithographic Squadron. Thirdly, within the Regiment itself, the cartographic and topographic sections have been given pay rises with retrospectivity, while the only pay rise given to lithographic personnel over the last three years has been  a  slight increase which flowed on from the Arbitration Court. The change in the system of group pay in 1968 has given pay rises, accompanied by retrospectivity, which has given these personnel  a  generous financial advantage over. lithographic personnel. 
I am informed that a pay claim submission has been with the Government for over eighteen months, since June 1969. I am informed also that at that time it was stated that if the lithographic pay claims submission were made before 8th August 1969, then pay granted would be made retrospective to 1st March, 1968. The submission was in fact made before this date, but retrospectivity has not been granted back to 1st March 1968. It was announced to the lithographic personnel on 11th September this year that pay increases had been approved by Treasury, and that the men were due to receive them in five to six weeks after that date. Three months have now passed, and the men still have not received them or any indication of what the pay rises actually are. I understand that the additional delay has been caused because the increases have not been accompanied by the vital principle of retrospectivity - the Treasury fs willing to backdate them only to October 1970, and the Army has refused to accept pay rises because they are not retrospective to 8th August 1969. In view of the earlier undertaking to make pay rises retrospective to 1st March, 1968 the reason for the dates of retrospectivity as set by both the Treasury and the Army are impossibly to justify. But whatever the reasons for either date, the fact is that pay rises have still not come through, despite months and months of waiting by lithographic personnel. 
Furthermore, while the second level has been approved, no statement has yet been made about the third level, and no reason for the delay in this regard has been given. 
Finally, I am informed that when changes were announced in the system of group pay in December 1969, the meagre changes made in lithographic pay were influenced by the Commonwealth Printer's claim that he was not paying his lithographic staff above the civilian award. As this claim has since been discredited, pay increases for service lithographic personnel should take account of the fact that the Commonwealth Printer has been paying above the civilian award. 
In view of the long delay and injustice which have characterized the Government's behaviour in the matters mentioned above, it is essential that the Government should make a speedy statement as to the nature of the increases and the date when they will come into effect. 
On 12th January 1 received a letter from the Minister for the Army. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate that letter in Hansard. It reads:  1 refer to your personal representations in the matter of pay of lithographic personnel at AHQ Survey Regiment Bendigo. 
Firstly I should say that the situation is not as described in your telegram. My investigations have shown that after consulting with the Commanding Officer, AHQ Survey Regiment, the Director of Survey is unaware of impending industrial action in the unit 
Secondly, contrary to your advice, pay increases have not yet been approved for lithographic' tradesmen categories. There is certainly no foundation to the allegation that the Army rejected pay increases for these employments; in fact retrospective pay increases were originally sought by my Department. 
The rate of pay for lithographic employments is still being determined. Consequently I am unable to predict either the rate or date of effect. 
I note that you also made similar representations to the Prime Minister and I have provided him with a copy of my reply to you. 
Two comments should be made on this letter. Firstly, the Minister did not deny that there was unrest. He merely stated that the Directorate of the Survey Corps had made investigations with the regiment in Bendigo and that the Directorate was unaware of impending industrial action. Incidentally, he made no reference to the unrest itself. The Minister left himself a let-out by passing the responsibility back to the Directorate and the Commanding Officer of the regiment. Nevertheless, the Minister was forced later to admit that there was unrest and dissatisfaction. On 23rd February this year I raised the matter in the House by means of a question directed to the Minister. He replied in this terms: 
I agree that there has been a degree of tension and dissatisfaction in this area. I do not agree with the conclusions that have been drawn and which are implied in practically every statement made by the honourable member. 
That is some admission for a Minister of the Crown to have to make about the men he is responsible for. The answer in relation to the Minister's investigations which he promised to make was given later by the Acting Minister  (Mr Lynch)  on Sth 
March when he said in a letter addressed to me: 
The situation is as described to you by my colleague  Mr Peacock  in his letter of 2nd January 1971 when he said that, after consulting the CO of the AHQ Survey Regiment, the Director of Survey was unaware of any three-day go slow action or of any confrontation in the unit in regard to pay claims or changes in production figures during the period in question. 
It is known, however, that there is dissatisfaction among lithographic personnel in regard to pay. This stems from the fact that these employments are alarmed with the Graphic Arts Award which produces the current pay groupings. 
In other words, 2 Ministers of the Crown make 2 admissions of dissatisfaction and unrest, although remarkably neither admits to the go slow action which took place in early December. Are they not informed of the situation by their officers, or are they taking refuge in silence? If they have still not been informed they had better make further inquiries, because it did take place For 3 days last year men stood around, depressed and idle, and the processes involved in map making came to a virtual standstill. 
However, I now return to the original letter written by the Minister for the Army. At long last this letter gave the seal of ministerial certainty to what the men had feared, although it was in direct contradiction to what the men had been told by their officers in Bendigo. The Minister for the Army said in his letter that pay increases have not been approved for lithographic tradesmen categories, that there was certainly no foundation to the allegations that the Army rejected pay increases for these employments, and that in fact retrospective pay increases were originally sought by his Department. But the Minister's answer raises other questions, and I would like answers to those questions. If retrospective pay increases had been sought by the Army, why had they not been approved? If these claims had been put forward by the Army, who rejected them and on what grounds were they rejected? How can the Government's procrastination which has gone on now for 2 years - 3 years if one includes the period for which the pay would have been retrospective - be justified? Why should men have to tolerate this sort of misgovern ment? 
Later on 22nd January the Minister for Defence sent me a telegram. He answered almost none of the points that I had raised in my detailed letter to him. The telegram read: 
I refer to your recent telegram about the pay of service personnel in the Lithographic trade stop the pay of these categories is based on rates laid down by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Graphic Arts Award and a thorough examination of the matter in August 1969 by the Defence Forces Trade Grouping Sub Committee on which the Department of the Army is represented comma did not support changes in the pay df the servicemen involved stop it was concluded that the changes in rates could not be achieved within current basic trade grouping principles and that any variation of these principles would demand examination in depth that has implications for pay of many other servicemen stop a review of these principles is presently being undertaken stop complex and far reaching issues are involved: which require careful consideration stop I note the points raised in your  telegarm  comma but pending finalisation of the review I can give you no further information stop. 
Three final points should be made. Firstly, the objection that the linking of lithographic pay with the Graphic Arts Award cannot be an objection to raising pay for service lithographic personnel because the fact is, I am informed, that the Government Printer, whose system of pay rates is the basis of service lithographic pay rates, is paying above award rates. If that is not the fact, I would like the Minister for Defence or the Minister for the Army to show me that I am wrong. Secondly, while statements by the Ministers have clarified the state of pay claims, these statements have also restored the frustration and hopelessness that were removed when, after the go-slow, action was taken to bring the men's grievances to the attention of the Government. Thirdly, the pay claims submission has been in process for 2 years, and including the year 1968, to which it was hoped pay would be made retrospective, the men have now been waiting for 3 years. This is neither responsible nor reasonable. The Government's record is already notorious because of the industrial action taken by Navy and Air Force personnel last year. Unless the Government desires to damage its reputation even further amongst servicemen ft should remedy the injustices of the lithographic personnel immediately. If it cannot do that, it should at the very least make a statement as to when the men can expect improvements in their pay. 
I have raised this matter tonight principally because all other endeavours I have made have had no direct result so far, but I raise it also because this particular situation is a reflection of a situation that affects the Services as a whole. It was the very inadequacy of Service pay, its inconsistency within the Services, and especially its inadequacy by comparison with superior pay for men with comparable skills and frequently with lesser responsibilities in civilian life, that has caused increasing resignation rates and declining re-engagement rates in the Services. It was this situation of dissatisfaction within the Services which erupted last year in 2 successful resorts to industrial action by Navy and Air Force personnel and which forced the Government to establish the Kerr Committee of Inquiry into Service pay and conditions last year. But there are many men in the Services who will not wait until the Kerr Committee makes ils report and until the Government decides - if it does - to implement the Committee's recommendations. Many servicemen want action on their pay and conditions now. The case of the men of the Lithographic Squadron in Bendigo is one such case which has every reason to demand an instant remedy.. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)' (1.4 a.m.)- I enter the debate tonight because there are a number of matters I want to raise and in relation to which I want to criticise the Government. One of the first things I shall deal with, quite briefly, is the imposition of an excise on wine which was introduced by the Government in its most recent budgetary provisions. Not a great deal has been said about this in recent weeks, although one or two question have been directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  in the House. I have in my possession a petition from a number of growers in South Australia protesting against the Government's action in imposing an excise duty on wine. I received this petition a few weeks prior to the Dorothy Dix question that was directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  In reply to that question the Minister said that the Government would investigate this matter and perhaps make some alteration to the present excise duty. I could not bring this petition to the notice of the House in the ordinary course of events because the petitioners felt that it was not God who had imposed the excise but, in its stupidity, the 
Government. For that reason I did not bring the petition forward in accordance with the normal forms of the House. 
I predict that the Government will have a look at the present situation insofar as the wine industry is concerned and will probably remove the excise that was imposed last year and impose a sales tax on wines that are bought over the counter. In that event honourable members on this side of the House will be given an opportunity to examine and debate the extent of the sales tax imposed by the Government. No doubt the Government will consider this proposal when it is formulating the Budget later this year. 
Much has been said tonight about the inadequacies of the Government in many fields. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  dealt adequately with the fact that the development of the country in the future will be only to the extent that, as new mineral fields are discovered, we will have throughout the length and breadth of the nation more and more huge holes in the ground. These holes will be perhaps like the holes that the Government is blasting in Indo-China today at tremendous cost to the Australian taxpayer. I shall refer to that matter directly. The fact is that Australia is not developing its mineral resources. It could be said that we are not doing any more, insofar as our national economy and the interests of the people of the Commonwealth generally are concerned, than is being carried out by many of the under developed countries. They are in receipt of aid from foreign powers, although these foreign powers are not really giving them aid since, in effect, it is in payment for the raw materials that the foreign powers are extracting from those countries. Most of the foreign aid which is flowing back to underdeveloped countries is derived from the large profits that the foreign powers are making from the raw materials obtained from these underdeveloped countries. 
I turn now to Australia's migration policy. The Government has not indicated that it does not intend continuing its present migration policy. All that we will see will be additions to the cost burden and the cost structure in general of the taxpaying community and an increase in the population of the cities of the Commonwealth. A decentralisation policy is needed. I should have thought that with the discovery of minerals in Australia, particularly in some of the less populous States, there would have been plans afoot by the Government to prevent the taking out of Australia on a great conveyor belt into bulk ships of all of our minerals. The same low price is being paid for our raw materials as is being paid to the underdeveloped countries. The discovery of minerals in Australia should have meant the establishment of cities on the western seaboard comparable to the cities that now exist on the eastern seaboard of Australia. This should have happened in one form or another with the discovery of minerals in Australia. It is just not good enough for the Government to say that it is developing the country. It might be saving the day from an economic point of view because of the fall in the earnings of the primary industries. The loss in the export earnings derived from the primary industries is being offset by the income and overseas exchange that is being derived from mineral exports, but this policy is not good enough in the long term; in fact, it is a very short term policy. 
What amazes me about the Government is the fact, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  that it adopts an attitude of absolute legislative dictatorship in this place. Question time is absolutely hopeless insofar as endeavouring to extract information from an individual Minister is concerned. I would describe the questions asked by my colleagues as being either questions without answers or questions which result in some form of discussion that is designed purely to make cheap political capital of the honourable member on this side of the House who asked the question. Question time in this place is not a constructive way in which to extract information from Mini*ters. The Ministers themselves ought to realise this, and I suppose it would be fair to say that the Labor government, when it was in office, was not any better in this respect. But the fact is that it is not good enough in this day and age. 
I want to make some brief reference also to what the honourable member for Perth said and to what was said in this place last year regarding the setting up of a committee system. What the honourable member for Perth said is true, and it is worth repeating. Senate committees are doing some very worthwhile work in this regard. They are able to question various departments and authorities whereas in this place we cannot even question a Minister and expect to receive a sensible and reasonable reply. There is a vast difference between the two Houses of the Parliament in that respect. But one of the main criticisms I am making of the Government is that at the end of  1959  the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review came down with a report containing a number of recommendations. The report covered an extremely wide range of matters and it ought to have been the direct concern of the government of the day. As I have said, it was a Joint Committee. There was a great deal of joint discussion in the Committee. But very little, if anything, has flowed from the Committee's report. There were no subsequent meetings of the Committee after it tabled its report; I accept that its report was tabled. No worthwhile consideration has been given by this House to putting the Committee's recommendations into practice or even to examining properly and adequately the matters with which the Committee dealt, such as marketing, the financial structure of the Commonwealth and the powers of the Commonwealth. 
I plead with the House to accept that in fact it is not too late - some  10  years after the report was presented - to pay some real regard to the position of this country today, because the Federal Government is inhibited, to some large degree, by the restrictions placed upon it by a Constitution that was spelled out in the horse and buggy days. Perhaps we, as a nation, would have been better off if the Constitution had been delayed for some  10  or  15  years until we could see the emergence of a concept which was different from the old colonial separate State system. Surely it is not too late for us, as a Parliament, to have a complete look at what the Committee said regarding a wide range of subjects. 
Transportation was one matter dealt with by the Committee. It made a number of recommendations on transport generally. Transport is getting into a hell of a hole. It is extremely costly and extremely wasteful. It does not run at anywhere near a profit. In fact, our transport system does not even cover the cost of maintaining it in its present form in any State in the Commonwealth. We should look at the question of transport on a national basis, that is, on the basis of national need, national development and national progress, and also on the basis of the efficiency of the transport as it affects the people. 
The transport system today in most capital cities and suburbs generally is in such a deplorable state that it is affecting the quality of life, if one regards quality of life as being adversely affected when one sits in a motor car in a queue in a poisonous, polluted atmosphere for some time, trying to get from point A to point B. As I have said in this House previously, shipping is related directly to our ability to create markets or to find markets for a very wide range of surplus primary products. In 1963 the Government saw fit to accept a report from  Sir Alan  Westerman, I understand, and we are paying very dearly for it today. In fact, there was no more classic example than the one quoted by me last September and repeated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  some months later. The difference between our own Australian National line's showing a profit and showing a loss was the fact that the Line had to pay some $2m to a Japanese conference shipping line consortium because the Line carried a tonnage of goods in excess of the tonnage agreed around the conference table. 
I can see what will happen because of the manner in which this Government in the past has tied itself to the shipping monopolies - the pirates of the shipping world so far as Australia is concerned. The stupidity of the introduction of containerisation of wool has meant a hell of an increase in the cost of wool and most certainly has had a marked effect on the return to the grower. There has been a tremendous capital outlay on the provision of ships, dock facilities and containers. Every time containers are moved they are moved at tremendous cost. A number of what one would most certainly regard as very wealthy companies have banded together and amalgamated in these consortia. They have become so large that one may well see, in the not too distant future, those consortia going to the wall, as did the Rolls-Royce company. What will the Government do then? Will it then impose a heavy taxation burden on the people who live in the cities and suburbs to get it out of the mess, but still not provide a national transport system? It is not too late. 
The Government should forget the containerisation programme so far as wool is concerned and study the advantages to be gained by using bulk ships to transport wool to the markets that are still available to this country. There will not be a decrease in costs, as the previous Minister for Trade and Industry tried to tell this House on a number of occasions. Incidentally, he never told me what he did with that $40m that he trotted off overseas with to buy Australia into the conference lines so that Australia would have a voice. But we have no voice and can be put to the wall. The honourable member for Angas can laugh about the situation, but it is very serious. This means the difference between Australia getting into markets and losing markets. I refer to the position in the islands to our north. We should look at some of the manufactured goods that are being sold in those countries and estimate the freight charged on goods shipped from Europe to that area. We should look then at what the shipping companies would charge Australia for shipping the same type of product, if we were able to sell it there. Honourable members opposite would be shocked if they made some comparisons along the lines I have suggested. They should look at some of the products from South Africa and see how far they have been shipped. Perhaps then they will realise what is happening. 
 Mr Speaker,  because of the guillotine which is to be applied by the Government to these Bills, only 4 hours has been allowed in which to debate this vital legislation. Unfortunately, I have approximately 6 minutes in which to express my opinion on a piece of social legislation which should be regarded as one of the most important measures passed by this Parliament. But we are being given only a very short time in which to debate it. 1 think the point I. made is a very important one because it shows how irresponsibly this Government is acting in thrusting the legislation through in this way. This legislation is based on the principle: Get big or get out. Of course, this has been denied by members of the Australian Country Party and by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  But this is the reality behind the legislation. As a matter of fact, I have not heard one member of the Country Party who has spoken on this Bill do so with any pride whatsoever. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  spoke during the week before last in reply to a question with only the slightest conviction and only the slightest pleasure of this Bill. The Minister for Primary Industry, who is sitting at the table, has no pride. Government supporters have spoken only with regret and apologies about this Bill and no wonder because, despite the crisis facing rural industries in Australia, the Government has not been able to bring forward legislation which can seriously tackle the problem. On the contrary, this legislation is aimed at accelerating the process which has already taken place at the hands of a laissez-faire economy; it is accelerating the process under government action. A number of estimates have been made as to how many people will be forced off the land by this legislation. One of the smaller estimates is that about 100,000 farmers will be driven off the land by this scheme. It is not surprising that no Government supporter whatsoever has expressed any pride or conviction in this legislation. It is not surprising that Government supporters have in fact called for the legislation to be amended urgently, as did the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who has just resumed his seat. It is not surprising that the new honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in what I thought was a very good speech, expressed his conviction that in comparison with overseas legislation the legislation now before us was miserable. He also said that if this was to be the only piece of legislation concerned with dealing with this problem he would be very unhappy to support it. That is typical of the attitude that has been expressed. 
State governments and farmers unions have condemned this legislation. The common opinion of this legislation has been that it is totally inadequate. If we go through the views of the South Australian Government, the New South Wales Government, the Queensland Government and the various farmers unions of Australia we find that all of them have said that this legislation is totally inadequate, firstly because of the limited amount that is to be provided and secondly because of the very restrictive nature of the legislation which is aimed at ensuring that only the very smallest number of farmers are to benefit, from it. 
After listening to the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  it is difficult to say whether he is more abstruse or abstract, but I certainly found very great difficulty in following what he was saying. Unfortunately, there is about him a general tone which is very reactionary. Almost everything we have put up here he has knocked back. He suggests that it is unfair for us to bring in talk about state aid; that this Bill has nothing to do with giving public money to private schools and therefore the question of state aid is irrelevant in this debate. I will come later to some of the things the honourable member for Denison has said. There are just a few things that I should point out before I go any further. The first is that this Bill has now been before the House for 24 hours, whereas the custom has been to have a Bill presented in the House and debated some 2 weeks later. We were given this Bill at about this time yesterday morning and we have had almost no time to prepare our speeches on it. It offers $43m of Commonwealth money and has many very important implications; yet this is the way in which the Government treats this important Bill. It- is an insult to the Opposition, to educationists, to parents, to taxpayers and to the community that this irresponsible method of debating a Bill at such short notice has been used. 
The other thing to notice, of course, is that so far only one Liberal member has stood up to speak. I daresay that he was dragooned into the debate. There was nobody else the Government could get to speak and it had to have somebody; so it dragged him in. I do not know whether anybody is to follow me. Although this Bill appropriates $43m and has some very complex and disturbing principles behind it, all the Government has been able to do is offer one Liberal  speaker.  Of course, there are no Country Party people here. One does not expect them to speak on education. They are specialists on rural Australia, we are told; so they say nothing. It is an indication to the Parliament and the nation of just how little consideration these people have for education. 
I daresay that the only thing the honourable member for Mallee has ever done for education has been to present Commonwealth flags. Pardon me for sounding a little angry, but I become disgusted when I think that here is a Bill that appropriates $43m of Commonwealth money over another 4 years, after $80m has been spent already, it is produced in the House and we are given 24 hours in which to examine it, and only one member of the Government parties, so far, has been prepared to speak on it. 
There is a guise of benevolent concern for education behind this Bill, but it is part of the whole Liberal policy towards education. The educational aspects of it are important, but also are its social aspects. This Bill asks for parliamentary approval of a project which treats the total needs of 75 per cent of students as almost equal with, and no greater than, the total needs of 25 per cent of students. It then conveys the delusion that the needs of almost 160,000 Catholic students are no different per student from those of approximately 75,000 students in private schools which in many cases are very affluent and well endowed. In other words, it treats the needs of more than 700,000 State secondary students as being only half of those of all other private schools students and pretends that those of Catholic school students are equal to those of other private school students. 
Before I go further into the Bill I would like to raise the matter of drop-out rates, which has been discussed before. Let us see whether the philosophy behind this Bill has something to do with it. Surely it has, because the philosophy behind this Bill is to relegate the government education system to being a secondary consideration in the mind of the Government. Looking at the dropout rates we find, for example, that in Victoria last year 24.8 per cent of the students who started off their secondary education were enrolled for the last year; 31.3 per cent of the Catholic school students were enrolled for the sixth year and 93.8 per cent of the private school students were enrolled for the last year. In other words, the State school student has only one-quarter of the chances of the private non-Catholic school student of completing his secondary education and the Catholic school student has only one-third of the chances of the private non-Catholic school student of completing his secondary education. There is a stark inequality. I find it amazing when I hear people such as the honourable member for Denison talking about inequalities as though they were abstract and unreal. Here is a direct case of inequality, and the philosophy behind this Bill is partly responsible for it. 
Some comments on this subject have been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn).  Frankly, what he said in reply to my question about the drop-out rates in the 3 school systems was very disturbing because it revealed a sheer lack of concern. He was asked whether he was concerned about them and whether he regarded the drop-out rates in the Catholic and government school systems as a loss to the nation. He did not reply to that. But he said that things were not so bad after all, because over the last 6 years the number of students in government secondary schools completing matriculation had increased by 64 per cent, those in Catholic schools by 32 per cent and those in independent schools by 27 per cent. It looks very good. The government schools are doing very well, the Catholic schools are improving and in the poor old private schools the number of students who go on to sixth form has increased by only 27 per cent. 
But we must not be fooled by this sort of statement, because the reality behind this situation is that, over the 10 years from 1959 to 1969 in government schools the percentage of students staying on to matriculation has only increased from 15 per cent to 25 per cent. That is the disturbing point. The figures for the other school systems 10 years ago are not available, but it is a staggeringly slow increase in retention rates in government schools. This is obviously an area of poverty. What is being done about it? Nothing much is being done about it because this Government is treating the government schools not only as if they were equal to certain sections of the private schools but also as if their position were even inferior. This is the reality behind this Bill. The Government is giving $1 for every State secondary school student in Australia while it is giving $2 for every private school student. If that is not a clear case of discrimination 1 do not know what is. But this is the policy the Government is pursuing. 
It is in these State schools that there are such poor facilities. This is just one of the reasons why so few of the State school students are going on; it is not the only one by any means. But it is this continuing neglect by the Commonwealth Government of the State education system and its continuing concentration on private education - and within that section its discrimination in favour of the non-Catholic private sector - that are causing this continuing inequality in government schools. The Commonwealth scholarship scheme is an area of gross inequality. On 28th April I asked the Minister for Education and 
Science whether he knew the financial reasons why people were dropping out? Surely this must be one of the Government's most important considerations. How can it justify this drop-out? Seventy-five per cent of State school students are dropping out and almost 70 per cent of Catholic school students are dropping out. How can the Government justify this position? 
Whose fault is it? Perhaps the honourable member for Diamond Valley will treat us to a favour later on oy making a speech on the subject. I hope he will. He will get his chance then. But if it is not the Minister's fault and it is not the State Government's fault then whose fault is it? Why do honourable members on the Government side keep passing the buck all the time? Of course it is the Minister's fault because he is giving away $40m in a very discriminatory fashion. He is giving away millions of dollars in Commonwealth scholarships, which amount could go towards helping people who are in need in the Catholic and State school systems. Of course it is his fault. He is responsible for spending millions and millions of Commonwealth dollars, and where are they going? They are going in a very discriminatory way towards one section. The Government is not regarding the needs of government and Catholic school students. 
Let us look at this Bill now and see where the discrimination lies. If honourable members on the Liberal Party side cannot understand this discrimination, then they have thick skulls. I do not say that the Government does these things for deliberate reasons and I do not say that it does them solely for political reasons. I am sure that the Government does them for political reasons. I think the main reason for this discrimination is the particular background from which honourable members opposite come. I think that they simply cannot understand the needs of the children who attend the schools which educate the majority of the children of Australia. That is the reason why the Government makes such gross defects in its health policy. I do not think it is because the Government is necessarily discriminatory and partisan. It has a narrow outlook and we have our narrowness too. But honourable members on the Government side have a narrow outlook because of the culture from which they come. They cannot understand the needs of certain groups of people in this community. If we look at the breakdown of the money that is spent on these secondary school libraries we see that over the next 4 years the total sum expended will be $43,295,000. 
In the independent schools - and let lis see the discrimination - what the Government is giving within a period of 4 years is an average of $73.82 for each student. Break that figure down and it means that the Government is giving $73.60 to each Catholic school student and $74.28 to each non-Catholic private school student. But compare that amount - and this is where honourable members have to see the discrimination - with the amount given to government schools. The Government is giving $36.83 for each secondary school student. So the Government is giving $2 to each private school student for each $1 it gives to each State school student. If honourable member's compare the distribution of funds with the distribution of students they will see the bias. For example, last year government schools in the 6 States had a total secondary population of 708,256 students which meant that 75.24 per cent or three-quarters of all students attending secondary schools were government school students. Yet the government schools will receive only 60.26 per cent of all the money that is allocated under this Bill. Last year Catholic schools had a total of 158,699 secondary students which meant 16.86 per cent of all students. Yet they received 26.98 per cent of the funds. The other private schools last year had a total secondary population of 74,407 students which is 7.90 per cent of all students and yet they received funds which amounted to 12.77 per cent of the total amount. Now, there is the discrimination in this area. As the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  pointed out, if honourable members look at some of the States they will see particular examples of the discrimination, some of which are more flagrant than others. For example, within a period of 4 years in Victoria the Government school student receives $36.83, a Roman Catholic school student receives $63.31 and a student in a private school other than a Roman Catholic school receives $83.52. On the other hand, in Western Australia, for each student the government school receives $36.83, the Roman Catholic school receives $112.57 and the private school other than Roman Catholic school receives $103. The Minister claims in his second reading speech that over the period in which the scheme has been in existence it has increased the quality of science teaching facilities. Now I note the emphasis on the word 'facilities' because I do not believe it can be said that over the period in which this scheme has been in existence there has been an increase in the quality of science teaching. When the Minister makes a statement that there has been an increase in science facilities, what are his evidence and criteria? Can he point to any programme conducted by his Department which has evaluated the success of this scheme which has been in operation for 7 years? It will be in operation for 11 years by the time it is finished. By 1975, over $123m will have been spent. Can he tell me - I believe he cannot - of any programme undertaken by his Department to evaluate the success of this scheme? 
There have been improvements in courses, materials and facilities for science teaching over the last decade; but the essential factor in science teaching is the teacher himself, and there has been a chronic shortage of qualified staff in secondary schools. This has reached such dimensions that it should be a matter of national concern. It has reached the stage where there should be a national investigation into why so many qualified science teachers are leaving and why so few of them are joining the education system. At the present moment, at the lower level of secondary education, up to the fourth form in Victoria, there is a severe shortage of qualified science teachers, and even in the senior years there is a shortage. The Victorian Teachers Union said last year that there was a shortage of at least 250 qualified mathematics and science teachers in Victoria. In New South Wales in 1962 only 32 per cent of the science teachers in the State were graduates. Today the position is even worse. In 1969, 1 in 10 of that State's 300 State high schools had no graduate science teachers and 3 in 20 had no science master. That situation has not changed. Even moi: recently the Director-General of Education in Victoria,  Mr Brooks,  commented that the lack of science teachers and mathematics teachers was likely to continue for at least 3 to 4 years. So there is obviously a need for initiative by the Commonwealth to investigate this chronic shortage of science teachers. It might be interjected at this stage: 'What has that to do with the Commonwealth?' I just point out that what the Commonwealth is doing is looking at one side of education alone. It is concentrating on capital development. It is putting up elaborate, attractive and. in many cases, modernly equipped science buildings; hut it cannot guarantee that they are being staffed. It is doing the same with libraries. It is putting up new buildings; but it cannot guarantee that the libraries will have sufficient qualified staff. 
One really wonders what sort of society the honourable member for Diamond Valley lives in, that he can say this sort of thing. I find his interjections and those of the honourable member for Denison just incredible; but I cannot waste- 
-There is nothing really wrong, you know, although we complain. We just have not been to the schools in which honourable members opposite were educated. 
asked-  .the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students were (a) enrolled for the Intermediate certificate examination, (b) candidates at Commonwealth secondary scholarships examinations and (c) awarded scholarships at each of the. following schools in each year since the introduction of the Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme: (i) Bendigo High School, (ii) Eaglehawk High School, (iii) Bendigo Girls High School, (iv) Golden Square High School, (v) Castlemaine High School, (vi) Broadford High School, (vii) . Seymour High School,;, (viii) St Vincent's (Junortoun), (ix) Marist Brothers (Bendigo), (x):St Mary's (Bendigo), (ix) ? Assumption College (Kilmore), (xii) St Joseph's (Kilmore), (xiii) St Mary's (Seymour), (xiv) St Gabriel's (Castlemaine), and (xv) Girton CEGGS (Bendigo). 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of each squadron and each sub-section of each squadron of the Army Survey Corps. 
How many officers and men are actually engaged in each case. 
What is the shortage of officers and men. 
How many vacancies for officers have arisen in each : of the past 5 years which (a) have not been filled and (b) which cannot be filled. 
How many vacancies for (a) officers and (b) other ranks are now being filled by national servicemen. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many inspectors of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate operate in Victoria. 
How many of them function in country areas. 
Will the economy measures of the Government cause a deteriorationof services -provided by these inspectors in. country areas.: 
If so, will he endeavour to reverse any decisions which would have such an effect. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the total value of all Commonwealth Secondary scholarships awarded in 1970? 
What was the total value of Commonwealth Secondary scholarships allotted' to students attending (a) Government (b) Catholic and (c; other private schools in the same year? 
What percentage of the total value of these scholarships was given to students? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What were the costs of administering the (a) Commonwealth secondary and ' (b) Commonwealth technical scholarships schemes in each State .and Territory in .1970, or the latest: year for which figures are available... 
What was the estimated administrative' cost per student who (a)' was enrolled in the- eligible -year and (b) sat for or otherwise competed for a scholarship and (c) was awarded a scholarship in each of the two 'scholarship schemes  in  each State and Territory in ihe same year. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What method is used in each State and Territory for the awarding of Commonwealth technical scholarships? 
What were the numbers and percentages of students who (a) were enrolled in the third last year of technical education, (b) completed or sat for examinations for scholarships and (c) were awarded scholarships in each State and Territory in the year 1970? 
What was the total value of all Commonwealth technical scholarships awarded in 1970? 
The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  suggested a mentality which explains only too well why this Government has such great difficulties in recognising a few simple realities about world affairs. The reason why the Government is faced with these difficulties is that its supporters continually see the world in terms of black and white and in terms of the cold war confrontations that have bedevilled Australian and American foreign policies for the last 2 decades. It is not possible for Government supporters, psychologically, mentally or intellectually, to adjust to the new opportunities for peaceful relations in the world such as  President  Nixon's statesmanlike intention to visit China has opened to us in Australia. Honourable members will note that there is only one member of the Country Party on the list to speak in this debate. I do not want to spend too much time on this: I am not concerned with the politics of it. I want to put forward my views as to why I think  President  Nixon's intention to visit China is so constructive, so valuable and so laudable. 
Before doing so I point out that neither the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  nor the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  are to take part in this debate. As I said, only one member of the Country Party is scheduled to participate. This is not surprising because after all, in the wheat electorates in this nation there has been a tremendous uproar against the rigidity of this Government's policies and the disastrous effects they have had on our wheat trading with China. This is quite remarkable when one considers that this is a nation which needs as many friends and as many buyers it can possibly get, particularly at a time when there is the threat to our trade of British entry into the European Economic Community. For example, let us have a look at the size of the trade that Australia has had in wheat sales to China. From 1960 to 1970 Australia sold 743 million bushels to China. This trade has now been lost. It has been lost by this Government. It is no wonder that only one member of the Country Party is taking part in this debate. It is no wonder that so many Government supporters are trying to put up such a smokescreen of fear and horror about the new policy towards China. What has the sale of 743 million bushels of wheat meant to Australia? It has meant a return of $904m. I emphasise that amount of S904m. That is the value of the trade that this Government has lost to this country because of its policy towards China. 
We have heard some rather remarkable statements about what the Leader of the Opposition's visit to China has done and how it set the dominoes tumbling and caused Australia to be cast alone in the world. No doubt we will hear from a few more experienced speakers who will hammer this theme that Whitlam cannot be trusted as the next Prime Minister. After all, every supporter of the Government knows that the next Prime Minister will be  Mr Whitlam  and hence the personal attack on him. Honourable members who will follow in this debate on the other side will say the very same thing. 
Many people will be listening to the broadcast of this claptrap that has come from the other side. A couple of weeks ago I had the pleasure of listening to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  when he was interviewed on the television programme 'Monday Conference'.  Mr Anthony  was by no means the ferocious fighter that he used to be in the Parliament. I was rather intrigued by the things he had to say about  Mr Whitlam's  visit to China. I would like honourable members in this House and those people listening to this broadcast to bear in mind what  Mr Anthony  said. It was a rather tricky sort of position he was in, because he found it very difficult to justify his own Government's policies.  Mr Walsh,  in part of his question about trade with China, said to  Mr Anthony: 
And you have said subsequently that  Mr Whitlam's  to blame for us not going in in July,' and it is a non sequitur to me. 

 Mr Anthony replied: 
I am not saying he ... I think it was  Dr Patterson  who brought the wheat issue into it. I think ... I wouldn't criticise  Mr Whitlam's  visit to China on purely political grounds. I think some of his actions were a little indiscreet. But if it can help in improving relations with the Western world then he is doing a service. 
Note that in comparison with the rubbish, the nonsense and the exaggeration that was put across by the Government supporters in this debate today. We will hear it from the next few speakers, but not from Country Party speakers because, very logically and reasonably, they are not taking part in this matter. Perhaps  the  honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will come out with some more of this personal attack on the Leader of the Opposition.  His  attack is not very convincing, because the Australian people have been genuinely and thoroughly impressed by the initiative that the Leader of the Opposition took in going to China, not merely to regain the trade that  the  Government has so disastrously lost but to build bridges of understanding between this country and China. 
What is the Government's attitude on the whole question of our relations and the United States relations with China? We welcome the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  We are quite delighted with it. He said that an era of new relationships between China and the United States had been opened. This is a new attitude. Only a few weeks ago after  Senator Gair  had spoken about the Pekingese dog, the Prime Minister was rubbishing the Leader of the Opposition and accusing him virtually of sabotaging the nation. In the meantime, unfortunately for it, the Government has been overtaken by events that it could not foresee, could nor control and with which it could not even keep in step.  President  Nixon is going to China and he is adopting a policy which virtually discredits and discards the policies that this Government has pursued for 20 years, of rigid containment and isolation of China. In place of those policies which have now been discarded is a policy of reason, understanding, discussion, dialogue, compromise and concession.  President  Nixon's initiatives are opening up a great era for us. 
Let me give my views now on  President  Nixon's visit to China. I am very disturbed by the fact that we can have in this House an official statement which welcomes  President  Nixon's visit but the visit can then then be attacked, virtually, with the sort of arguments that Government members have used so far and will go on using week in week out, kicking the Communist can and deliberately creating a mentality of fear which is the very contrary to what  President  Nixon is trying to do in his initiatives with China. It is very interesting to see just how hostile the attitudes among back benchers of the Liberal and Country Parties are. It is also interesting to see how closely they resemble those of  Mr B.  A. Santamaria and the Democratic Labor Party. I am not concerned with those parties, but I am just drawing a comparison with them. These parties are deeply suspicious of  President  Nixon's attempts to bring about peace, security and stability in the world through understanding with China. This is why we have had the sort of attacks we have had expressed today. 
I see 3 principal reasons for President Nixon's visit to China. I think they are most important to this country. The Australian people should realise them and appreciate them. First of all, it is rather extraordinary that President Nixon is now being attacked by the extreme Right in Australian politics. One of the charges that will be raised - although not in this House, I suspect - is that of opportunism. It is a very plausible argument. It is a very subtle variation on the ancient theme of 
Tricky Dick'. Tricky Dick, President Nixon, is out to win votes, they say. He is going to placate the powerful and turbulent Left in the United States, and this is how he does it. It is a superficial argument. It is a plausible one, and at least it does concede that domestic politics in the United States is an important factor in how American foreign policy is decided. That is one of the realities behind President Nixon's policy towards China. The American people are sick and tired of a policy of continual confrontation that is based upon the cold war mentality that we have heard expressed only too clearly and only too frequently in this Parliament today. 
The American people are pro-peace and anti-war. I praise them. I praise President Nixon for having the flexibility as a conservative politician to realise that there is a new direction demanded by his people and by international realities. Let me refer to a most important document that has not been quoted in this Parliament. I suppose the Australian Government may have seen it at some stage, but I doubt whether it could have, in view of the statements made by the Prime Minister on 13th July when attacking the Leader of the Opposition. I will spend some time quoting from this document because I regard it as a most important indication of where President Nixon's policy is taking the United States, where it is taking China and where it is taking us. On 7th July in Kansas City, Missouri, President Nixon spoke to some executies of the Press, radio and television. Note that 7th July was 6 days before that disastrous attack by the Prime Minister on the Leader of the Opposition, on which he had to back-pedal later. President Nixon said: 
Mainland China is, of course, a very different situation - from Russia - 
First in terms of its economic capacity at the present time, a pretty good indication of where it is, is that Japan, with 100 million people, produces more than Mainland China with 800 million people. But that should not mislead us, and it gives us and should give none of the potential competitors in the world markets. Mainland China, any sense of satisfaction that it will always be that way, because when we see the Chinese people - and I have seen them all over the world, and some of you have, too, whether in Hong Kong or Thailand or Singapore or Bangkok, any of the great cities, Manila, where Chinese are there - they are creative, they are productive, they are one of the most capable people in the world, and 800 million Chinese are going to be, inevitably, an enormous economic power, with all that means in terms of what they could be in other areas if they move in that direction. 
Here is where President Nixon's thought is expressed so contrary to the nonsense that has been spoken by Government members today. He said: 
That is the reason why 1 felt that it was essential that this administration take the first steps toward ending the isolation of Mainland China from the world community. We had to take those steps because the Soviet Union could not, because of differences that they have that at the present time seem to be irreconcilable. We were the only other power that could take those steps. 
He continued: 
Let me be very, shall 1 say, limited in what I would discuss on this particular issue, because we should not consider that more has happened than has happened. 
This was about a week before he announced his visit to China. President Nixon continued: 
What we have done is simply open the door - open the door for travel - open the door for trade. 
Now the question is whether there will be other doors opened on their part. But at least the doors must be opened and the goal of US policy must be in the long term, ending the isolation of Mainland China, and a normalisation of our relations with Mainland China because, looking down the road, and let's just look ahead IS to 20 years, the United States could have a perfectly effective agreement with the Soviet Union for limitation of arms - the danger of any confrontation there - 
He is referring to the Soviet Union - might have been almost totally removed. 
I will continue because this is so imporant and it is going to be a clear indication of the way in which American policy will evolve. President Nixon said: 
But Mainland China, outside the world community, completely isolated, with its leaders not in communication with world leaders, would be a danger to the whole world that would be unacceptable, unacceptable to us and unacceptable to others, as well. 
So, consequently, this step must be taken now. Others must be taken, very precisely, very deliberately, as there is reciprocation on the other side. 
He said more, but what I have quoted shows Australia that the policies which the United States has pursued towards China for 20 years, that is, policies of military containment of the Chinese and diplomatic isolation, are no longer to be followed in the United States. In their place is to be a policy of negotiation', discussion and compromise. This will open up new possibilities in our area of the world and for easy relations between nations. These bitternesses between the United States and China have incinerated Korea and Vietnam. They have been a disaster for world peace. Of course they have all been lauded fulsomely by Government members. With this sort of statement by President Nixon, we can look forward to an era of understanding and peaceful relations from which Australia can only benefit. I personally regard President Nixon's initiative as being a display of statesmanship of the highest order from which this country can only benefit. 
We have just heard a dismal duo of diatribes from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the new Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  It is part of the story that they are now kicking up that the wheat trade has been lost to Australia not because of their actions, not because of their policy but because of the words of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  It is a good story to put in the local country newspapers as long as there are not a few people who have an ounce of knowledge about this to wake up and point out what humbug they are putting over. It is of course this Government - whether through the words of one Minister or another does not matter to me  very  much - which has lost this trade. There is clearly one factor and one factor alone involved in this. We are dealing in a commodity in which we have one principal rival at the present moment and that is Canada. The Government can leave out its arguments about secondary manufactures and other primary produce because all we are talking about is wheat in relation to which we have virtually only one competitor. 
The point is that this wheat trade was lost last year. It was about the time of the Senate elections last year that the Canadian Government finalised its arrangements for the recognition of Communist China anr) 2 weeks after that was announced to the world the Chinese announced that the Canadians had won a bumper contract, one of the best that the Canadian Government had ever pulled off. That is where it goes back to. Do not start talking about what has happened over the last few weeks with  Mr Whitlam's  going to China. We on this side of the House know how concerned the Government is. We know of the initiative we took and of the image this has given to the Australian Labor Party. This is admitted by  Mr Eric  White, public relations manager for the Liberal Party in election campaigns. Go back earlier to the time referred to, for example, by Maximillian Walsh in his interview with  Mr Anthony  on 26th July.  Mr Anthony  said that it all happened in July when that treacherous person,  Mr Whitlam,  went away with another treacherous person,  Dr Patterson,  and together they subverted the Australian Wheat Board, lt is a good story, but it will not stand up. 1 quote from the television programme 'Monday Conference' of 26th July 1971.  Mr Walsh  said: 
But the entry of the Labor Party has only been part of the political tempo heating up over China. In point of fact there was an Italian trade minister in, there was a Canadian trade minister in, and now we're having  President  Nixon going in.  Mr Gough  Whitlam's very, small fry compared with that group of people. And the Canadian communique was signed before  Mr Whitlam  went in. And you've said subsequently that  Mr Whitlam's  to blame for us not going in in July and it's a non sequitur to me. lt is a non sequitur to anyone who has any sense. There are too many people in the Australian community who are not going to see through this smokescreen of propaganda that the Country Party, very understandably, is throwing up over this.  Mr Anthony  says that what the Labor Party has been doing is to make it politically impossible for the Wheat Board to sell wheat to China. The political impossibility in the sale of wheat to China lies with the Government's own policy. All honourable members on the other side of the chamber on the Country Party benches and on the Liberal Party benches know that, contrary to their claim that trade and politics in China do not mix - a little in the same way as sport and politics do not mix in South Africa - the reality is that the Chinese Government has announced that they do mix. If honourable members on the Government benches want to see some evidence of this, they should look at the speech made by  Mr Nigel  Bowen on 1 8th August: 
It should not be supposed, for instance, that Australian recognition of Peking would' lead immediately and automatically to substantial trading advantages. The Chinese have indicated that they prefer at present to buy wheat from Canada, which recognises them, rather than from Australia, which does not. 
If that is not a statement that politics and trade have been mingled, contrary to the time hallowed doctrine of the Country Party, I do not know what is. Some of the statements made by  Mr Anthony  are really just a little too hard to believe. One of the statements  -  1 have seen about half a dozen of them - was made on 'Monday Conference'. It did not go down very well. I have seen some of the statements before. One of the statements was that the Chinese did not buy wheat from Australia because the price of wheat was going up. So the Chinese waited. They are  Mr Anthony's  own words. The Chinese were waiting for the price of wheat to go up so they can buy it at a higher price. They ended up not buying it at all from Australia. Those are  Mr Anthony's  own words. Honourable members opposite can do the Parliament a favour and check this in Hansard for themselves.  Mr N.  H. Bowen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has made the statement that the Australian Government does not have a policy of hostility towards China. He used the term 'Chinese people', but 1 dare say that the Chinese Government would regard the term 'Chinese people' as relating to the Chinese Government. I just ask  Mr N.  H. Bowen, the very knowledgeable Minister for Foreign Affairs, backed up by an entire department of experts: Does Australia pursue a policy of 2 Chinas or not? As the Minister is sitting at the table rummaging through his notes, perhaps he would just like to nod his head, or give honourable members some other indication. He has given no answer. I do not blame him. In fact, the Government is pursuing a policy of 2 Chinas. What the Government is trying to get the Chinese to agree to is nonsense. What  Mr N.  H. Bowen,  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Anthony  are really trying to tell the Australian people is that it is not reasonable for the Chinese to refuse to go into the United Nations as one China with some rival claimant to the same power sitting opposite them. What the Government is trying to say, in fact, is that there are 2 Chinas. That is absolute nonsense. There is only 1 China. Whether it is Chiang Kaishek or Mao tse-tung speaking, each claims that there is only one China. The Foreign Minister, who is very learned and very knowledgeable, is now telling us that there are 2 Chinas. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question. Is Chiang Kai-shek the sole and legal governor of the whole of China? 
Can you put it simply for us now? Does Chiang Kai-shek govern the mainland? 
I have read the statement on foreign affairs. The reason why Australia has just said goodbye to S904m in wheat sales is because of the sort of foreign affairs statement to which you refer has been made by yourself and the Prime Minister. They set out a policy which is based on nonsense. The Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about Australia looking at the realities of foreign affairs. The reality to which the honourable member refers is that there are 2 Chinas. Of course, there are not. 
We get a very intelligent and comprehensive interjection from the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who says: 'On whose judgment is it nonsense besides yours?' The people who should be asked this question are the Chinese themselves because they are the people whom you are trying to win over. They regard it as nonsense. Apart from a few minority groups such as the little, dogmatic groups that keep the Government in power, there are not many people in the Australian community who agree with the policy of the Government. 
The majority of the people want China admitted to the United Nations. The majority of the American people want China recognised. Here is a government that knows what is happening in its allied nation but has not seen the writing on the wall. 
That is the question, as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  says. The Australian Government has placed itself in a dismal situation in which it has lost $100m a year - a total of $904m since 1969, and a total of 743 million bushels of lost wheat sales to China. It has been stated in official or semi-official statements of the Chinese Government that the Canadian Government from now on will receive priority. To put it in a negative way, it means that Australia will receive last consideration from the Chinese. It is hardly surprising that Government members are so very embarrassed today, lt is hardly surprising that once again they are trying to make such a big smokescreen. I wonder how many more Country Party members will speak in this debate. 1 dare say that there will not be too many more. 
Finally, I wish to refer very briefly to the statement that was made by a member of the Australian Wheat Board.  Mr Anthony  has referred to members in general talking about politicians in general. Here is a member talking about a Party.  Mr A.  C. Everett has said that the Australian Wheat Board had lost its sales of wheat to China for one simple reason. It was because of the dogmatic and inflexible policies pursued by the Australian Government. Because of this, we have lost $100m a year in wheat sales to China. This has occurred at a time when our trade is threatened by Great Britain's entry into the European Economic Community and at a time when the United States of America is going to sell substantial quantities of wheat. 
Is the Prime Minister concerned by the rapid acceleration in the foreign takeover of Australian assets during recent weeks, in particular, 2 major Australian tin mining companies and 2 beach sand mining companies which have fallen into foreign ownership? Is the Prime Minister concerned at the prospect of the Robe River company falling into foreign hands? Will he take action to ensure that such companies remain under Australian control? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educator?, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, willever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  took about 3 or 4 minutes to make the simple point that the debate on the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is of greater importance than a debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. The honourable member made some very unpleasant and impolite comments which I think I should refute. Perhaps the best way to do so would be to pronounce the name of his electorate with greater emphasis on the last syllable. However, I have something more important to do than to reply to the comments made by the honourable member for Angas. 
I am especially concerned about the unemployment position that has been created in my electorate as a result of the economic policies of the Government. I would like to see the Government take some action to deal with the unemployment situation which has been caused by those policies. It has just been drawn to my attention that 25 young apprentices in the building industry in my electorate have been put out of work, some temporarily and the others permanently. This fs a very serious situation. When an employer gets to the stage of sacking his apprentices it means that things are going very badly indeed. These sackings are the direct result of the Government's policies. 1 believe that the indications are that the position in the future will be far grimmer. It is evident from the Budget that unemployment will increase. 
I am particularly concerned about the unemployment situation in my electorate. Unemployment in the Bendigo employment district has now risen to a total of 608 males and females, which is an increase of 46 on the figures of 562 in July last year. But those figures do not give the whole picture. They do not indicate the number of people who are unemployed but just the number of people who have registered as being unemployed. Nor do the figures indicate the number of people who have been unable to find employment in their home city and have left for the metropolis to find work. The unemployment figures provided by the Department of Labour and National Services show that the number of males and females receiving the unemployment benefit has risen to 258, which represents an increase of 64 on the position as at July of last year. So my electorate is faced with a very serious employment situation which I am sure will get worse. 
In one part of my electorate, the city of Seymour, 162 males and females are registered as unemployed and 38 people are receiving the unemployment benefit. So the situation is bad. Of course my electorate, which is a country electorate with provincial cities and towns, is not the only electorate affected- The countryside as a whole has been affected. For example, we have a situation in Victoria where the number of people receiving the unemployment benefit is greater in the rural areas than it is in the capital city itself. For example, in July of this year 2,824 people were receiving the unemployment benefit in country areas and 2,753 were receiving it in the metropolitan area. This is a serious situation indeed. The number of people registered as unemployed in July of this year was 6,865 in non-metropolitan areas and 10.936 in the metropolitan area. 
It is clear that the present situation has been caused by the Government's policies. The rural depression is affecting the countryside surrounding the provincial cities and towns in my electorate. It has slashed the spending power of farmers. It has cut down their will and ability to purchase commodities and, in particular, to finance the construction of buildings. This has affected the housing industry, to which I referred earlier. 
The Budget has made it abundantly clear that the rural depression is not a one-day, one-week or one-year wonder but is set to last for some considerable time. We have the difficult situation with regard to wool. Very few people can say when, if ever, wool will return an average price of, for example, 40c per lb. A lot of the wool growers in my electorate were formerly great buyers in the cities and towns. They invested in building and construction work, but they are not doing that now. The economic future for primary industry is very grim. The unemployment in the provincial cities and towns is likely, indeed certain, to continue. 
On top of the general situation with regard to the rural depression we have the situation facing the housing industry itself. The housing industry was in a very bad condition during the last financial year. One can see this by looking at the Budget figures that have been provided by the Treasurer. It was estimated that 175,000 houses would be built in Australia in 1970-71 - I am speaking about the national situation now - but in actual fact the number turned out to bc 143,000. It is clear that this stagnation will continue in 1971-72. The Budget offers a guarantee of this. Together with the inflation on which the Budget is built there is every indication that stagnation will continue. On real prices there was in fact a decline in 1970-71 of $33m in the amount spent on private building construction compared to the expenditure in the previous year. On the other hand, spending on private non-residential building and construction rose by 17 per cent on real prices. 
These are the distortions which exist in the Australian economy. They are affecting house and home buying and building throughout the nation, and they are affecting my electorate. So we have 2 basic problems and I want to see action by the Commonwealth Government. The situation in my electorate at the present time is bad enough, but it will continue unless action is taken to relieve it. I should like to see the Government examine the economic situation and the employment situation in provincial cities of Bendigo, Seymour and Castlemaine, and in other cities and towns in my electorate and in the countryside as a whale. The Government must keep its eyes on the way in which its economic policies are evolving and on the economic effects which those policies are having on country cities and towns. 
I should like to see a policy of cooperation between the Commonwealth Government, State governments and local governments so that public works undertaken by Commonwealth, State and local governments can be accelerated in these areas where there is unemployment, so that men can find employment opportunities. 1 should like to see State governments embark on a campaign of building and development programmes, for example, building school libraries. I know that some schools in my own electorate still have not received money from the Commonwealth for the construction of school libraries and science blocks. I should like to see preschools being built. I should also like to see more Housing Commission houses being built. Some Housing Commission homes will be built. Recently the Victorian Government announced that it will be building more Housing Commission homes in the Bendigo area, but I believe that the rate of construction should bc accelerated in this very critical situation. 
As regards the Government's policies on primary industry, it is clear that the present policy on rural reconstruction will mean continued stagnation in country areas. This policy will have to be re-examined. Some real teeth will have to be put into the Government's primary industry policy. I believe that the Commonwealth Government can do one thing very quickly and very urgently- 
That would be the most promising thing not only for the electorate of Bendigo but also for the whole of Australia. 1 think that the Commonwealth Government could immediately set to work on planning and building its communications building which it has scheduled for Bendigo in Victoria. It is supposed to be completed by April 1974. I think that the plans for that programme should be finalised as early as possible. Tenders should be called, if they have not already been called. This building should be commenced as quickly as possible, because it is obvious that it will offer very considerable employment opportunities for the building industry. 
The Commonwealth should also reexamine its policy on housing and its general budgetary and economic policies to ensure that those distortions in the building record over the last year are not allowed to continue. If this were done there would be more private home building and the needs of provincial cities and towns would be met. But most importantly of all, there is need for urgent action on decentralisation. We have heard a lot about it. Every honourable member who comes from a country electorate speaks about it, but we all know that nothing has been done about it. Because of the urgent situation in country areas, this is the time when the Government should settle down with the State governments and decide on the action it will take on the question of freights and the cost of setting up factories. The State governments are to be given the right to impose payroll tax. The money raised from this tax should be used to encourage industrial development. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the  (a)  date, (b) nature and (c) outcome of all negotiations between- his Department, the Department of the Army and the Victorian Government concerning the refusal of  that  Government to permit the extension of the Home Help Service of the Shire of Seymour to the  families  of Army personnel living at Puckapunyal. 
On what grounds did the Victorian Government refuse to co-operate in this matter. - 
If the Victorian Government continues to refuse to co-operate, will he consider recommending ex gratia payments to the States on a pro rata basis to enable them to provide Home Help Service to Commonwealth employees, including Service personnel and their dependants in Commonwealth establishments. 
The honourable member for McMillan is a typical Liberal. He says: 'Hear, hear'. He represents a country electorate. No doubt he is very satisfied with the situation of the economy in his area. 
That is right. The honourable member said: 'Hear, hear', and he is quite prepared to see rural Victoria collapse and be depopulated in the coming years. 
That is the logical conclusion to be drawn from the statement that the Commonwealth Government has nothing to do ' with the matter. Until people start to recognise that there must be a Commonwealth initiative in the field of decentralisation there will be no genuine growth in country and provincial areas in this nation for years to come. Surely the thing that has held up such progress most of all has been the indolence, laziness and apathy of the Commonwealth Government. We on this side of the House want to see a genuine initiative coming from the Commonwealth Government. I always find it difficult to understand how the Liberal Party can take refuge so frequently in the argument that this and that are a State right when it knows that the State's obligation cannot be discharged unless it receives Commonwealth assistance. But this is a situation that satisfies members of the Liberal Party. They are quite prepared to see the countryside go to pot- 
I should like to refer to one aspect of decentralisation. The first thing we need to establish in this country is a department of housing, urban affairs and regional development which will reflect the commitment by the Commonwealth Government to decentralisation. So far this Government has no such body which is concerned mainly and principally with decentralisation. It would be an easy task for the Government and it would make a very great difference to the growth of provincial cities and towns if the Government were to accept that it should match the State governments' expenditure on decentralisation on a $1 for $1 basis, which is the way in which the Labor Party would start to deal with it. 
I should like to refer to particular problems within the field of primary industry. I am very concerned about the price of wool. Nothing illustrates better than the last few weeks just how urgent it is that we should have a policy of acquiring, appraising and marketing the entire Australian wool clip. I was not at all impressed with the answer given today by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It strikes me that what we are probably being faced with is putting off for another 18 months what can be done today. After all, it was the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who said only a few weeks ago that in 18 months time the Government might have to consider a policy of acquiring the entire wool clip. 
My mind turns to a statement made by  Mr G.  Chance, a member of .the Australian Wool Board and  president  of the Wool Section of the Farmers' Union on his return from the International Wool Secretariat meeting in London. I quote from an article in the 'Financial Review' of 12th July this year.  Mr Chance  said: 
Until a single authority, acquires all of our wool and markets it according to quality and type, we will continue to lose out to synthetics. The situation has now developed to die stage where acquisition is the only immediate means by which the Australian wool industry can be saved from total disaster. 
The article continues: 

 Mr Chance said his discussions with overseas wool textile manufacturers had also made it clear that there was an urgent need for current research on the high speed knitting of wool to be concluded. 
He said this research was already well advanced, and once a solution to the problems was established, a whole new field of manufacturing possibilities, from which wool was at present precluded, would open up. 
That statement backs up the policy statements that the Labor Party has been making consistently. Those statements are supported by the majority of the wool growing community in Australia. 
I turn now to the position of wheat. We have been very fortunate in that the Australian Wheat Board has enjoyed a very good record in the marketing of Australian wheat overseas. Nevertheless the fact is that we have lost a real bonanza in the China wheat trade. No amount of politicking by the Government parties and attempts to throw up  a  smokescreen around the visit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to China can conceal this one fact, that Australia has lost a real bonanza in its wheat trade to China. We can rest assured that the American wheat grower who for so long has been deprived of this very important market is looking very keenly towards America's improved relations with the People's Republic of China. At the beginning of the present financial year, 1971-72, there was a carryover in wheat in the United States of 19 million metric tons, and this is a surplus which the American wheat grower will be doing everything he can to sell. If I were the Chinese looking forward to improving relations with the United States one of the first things I would do would be to offer to purchase substantial quantities of American wheat. This is quite a possibility. What it means is that Australia no longer has one principal rival - Canada. It also has the United States now. This makes trading in wheat a more difficult proposition for Australia in the future. 
I am concerned also with the position of the poultry industry. There is  a  need for  a  Commonwealth initiative in prodding the Victorian Government into taking action on' the control of egg production in Victoria. We have reached  a  situation in the poultry industry in Australia where there is over-production. Too many eggs have been produced for our own local market. The sale of eggs for export is uneconomical. We look like losing our export market to Japan by perhaps 1976. The situation is  a  very serious one. Approximately 9,000 poultry farms are involved in the question of control of production. There are approximately 2,500 poultry farms in each of New South Wales and Victoria. About the same number exists in South Australia, and there are smaller numbers in Queensland, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and Western Australia. So there is getting to be a surplus production of eggs. The States other than Victoria realise just how dangerous this situation is becoming. They are prepared to support common legislation for the control of production. 
At the July meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture produced model legislation for the control of egg production. This enjoys very substantial support among the other States, but the main obstacle to implementing this control of egg production is the Victorian Government. It is a disgraceful and scandalous situation in which  Sir Henry  Bolte is holding the poultry farmers of this nation to ransom because of his policy of supporting the present chaotic position of egg production. I like the use of those words 'holding Victoria and New South Wales to ransom* particularly in reference to  Sir Henry  Bolte as he is always using them in referring lo brigands, louts, larrikans and other people who protest against him. But  Sir Henry  Bolte's action is very dangerous because while we fail to control the production of eggs the situation will get worse and worse. The Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry should call an urgent meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to put pressure on  Sir Henry  Bolte to agree to uniform legislation throughout this country for the control of egg production. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was talking about the need for Commonwealth Government initiatives in the controlling of egg production. I believe that the Commonwealth could also take the initiative in offering Australia's surplus egg powder to the Pakistani refugees in India, of whom there are now  Si  million. The Victorian Commercial Egg Producers Association made this suggestion in June to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The Minister replied that egg powder would not be supplied to the Indian Government until Australia was asked for it by the Indian Government. 
I regard that as being an unnecessarily formal and legalistic approach to the needs of the 8J million refugees, many of whom are suffering from a severe protein deficiency and who would therefore benefit from the supply of Australian egg powder. I have been assured by medical advisers not only that it would be quite nutritious and acceptable to the refugees in India if it were mixed with normal foods but also that its high protein would in fact be ideal for them. The point is that Australia has an over supply of egg products and many Pakistanis are hungry and suffering from malnutrition. Therefore, I urge the Australian Government to take the initiative and tell the Indian Government that we would be willing to purchase egg powder from our own egg producers and give it free to the Indian Government if it is required. 
Finally, I wish to refer to the very grave financial position of -a home for the aged blind in the city of Bendigo, which is in my electorate. I refer to the Mirridong Blind Home. Its financial position is deteriorating so rapidly because of escalating running costs and static income that, unless it receives additional money from government sources by the end of October, it will be threatened with the very real danger of having to close. There are about 5,000 blind persons in Victoria, Probably 3,300 of them are aged. Mirridong, which is run by the Victorian Association for the Blind, which itself now has an overdraft of $100,000, provides accommodation and care for 32 blind aged people. It is the only institution north of the Great Dividing Range in Victoria which provides specifically for the aged blind. It is run on a voluntary basis. No such institution is provided for the blind by either the State or Commonwealth governments. Actually it has accommodation for 50 people, thanks to the 20-bed hospital wing that was opened in March of this year by the Governor of Victoria. However, due to the home's extraordinary financial difficulties, the new wing was virtually closed on the same day that it was opened for, while the Commonwealth has paid a substantial subsidy towards the building of this new wing, it has not provided adequate finance to meet the running expenditure of the home. Thus the residents who are now going into the new wing actually are not new residents but resident of the older wing. 
Although SO beds are in fact available 18 of them are not being used. This is despite the fact that there is a total of about 40 people on the active and precautionary waiting list for this home. So we are presented with the extraordinary spectacle of an institution which, far from increasing the services it provides to the blind community, is being placed in the position of restricting and cutting back on the services it provides. Much of the problem facing Mirridong is outlined in correspondence which, with the permission of the House, I will incorporate in Hansard. 
There are 2 subjects I would like to raise tonight. The first is the subsidised health insurance scheme for low income earners and the second is care of the aged. I am particularly concerned about the subsidised health insurance scheme for low income earners because although this scheme has been in operation since January 1970 the Parliament still has no idea of how successful the scheme is. I asked a question on notice on 17th February this year about the subsidised health scheme for low income earners. Six months have now passed and I still have not an answer to that question. That means that the Parliament still has no idea of how successful this scheme for low income earners has been. I find this very difficult to justify. 
If we are going to have a scheme like this which is aimed at doing good for a very important section of the community statistics should be readily available to tell us how it is faring. The question I asked on 17th February was: 
Can the Minister state the number of people in each State and Territory in each of the categories of (a) unemployed, (b) migrants, (c) sickness beneficiaries, (d) other eligible beneficiaries and (e) families with weekly incomes of (i) below $42.50, (ii) between $42.45 and $45.50 and (iii) between $45.50 and $48.50, who have applied for subsidised health insurance by registering with (A) the Commonwealth Department of Social Services and (B) a hospital and medical benefits society since the introduction of the subsidised medical services scheme? 
The second part of the question on notice was as follows: 
Can the Minister say what percentage of those eligible for this assistance in each of the categories mentioned above have applied for assistance in each State and Territory. 
Still I have received no answer. This is a reflection of very poor administration on the Government's part if this sort of information is not forthcoming. The scheme was introduced last year. It was designed to help some 300,000 needy people. It is based on a means test. Families with less than $46.50 a week qualify for a full subsidy on hospital and medical benefits costs. Those receiving up to $49.50 have twothirds of their costs paid for the insurance, and those with incomes of up to $52.50 have one-third of their health insurance costs paid. This is not only for low income earners. It is for those who are receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits and it is for migrants in their first 2 months of residence in Australia. Obviously we are dealing with quite a substantial section of the community. The question is how successful has the scheme been over 18 or 19 months? The answer is that we do not know. I would estimate that there are tens of thousands of low income families who are eligible for assistance under the scheme. I would say that there are tens of thousands who have not applied for the scheme because they do not know about it. I would say also that there are tens of thousands of people in the community in need who are precluded from assistance under the scheme because of its very stringent means test. 
With respect,  Mr Speaker,  I think you will find that the Social Services Bill that is before the House is a detailed Bill which does not concern the subject with which I am dealing tonight. 
I thank you for your leniency,  Mr Speaker.  For one thing, a lot of the families in the community which are eligible for this assistance simply do not know it is there. The Government's view is if it continually advertises that there is such a scheme people will find out and apply, but that does not necessarily follow. For example, there is the factor of pride. Another factor which has to be taken into consideration is that some people in this category may be frightened or resentful of government authority. Some people who qualify for, say, the intermediate benefit - the two-thirds subsidy or the one-third subsidy - might still find the cost to be so high that they prefer to take the risk of going without health insurance and of paying later if things do not work out well. 
A number of other factors are also involved. For example, it is a hardship to many people to have to go to an office of the Department of Social Services. Many people do not know where to find such an office. For many people it is a costly venture to go to such an office. It may involve a substantial fare. In this connection I would recommend to the Government a point that was brought out by the Canberra Anti-Poverty League in letters which it wrote to the Government on 26th October 1970 and 3rd March 1971. In those letters the League pointed out that it would be a good idea to have a contingency fund whereby the Commonwealth reimbursed hospitals in cases where the low, income earners who were eligible for assistance have not applied for assistance and have therefore got themselves into debt at these hospitals. Such a contingency fund could be operated by a reprenentative of the Department of Health, a representative of the Department of Social Services and perhaps a social worker at the hospital concerned. In my opinion this is a very good idea. The purely mechanical means of increasing the publicity through the mass media is not, I am sure, going to get through to the tens of thousands of families in such situations. 
The second thing that is objectionable is the means test itself. I believe that an absurdly stringent and cruel means test is being applied. It takes no account of what is required to keep a family going. I have had some research done on this matter by the statistical research service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. I asked it to look at the poverty levels on the basis of incomes in Victoria for the June quarter of this year. The average weekly earnings in Victoria for the June quarter were $91.50. I asked the statistical research service to examine what would be the poverty level according to the sizes of families on the standards laid down by the Department of Applied Economic Research, which is Professor Henderson's department, at the University of Melbourne, using the criteria that it used in a survey of poverty in 1966. 
It is interesting to note that a husband and his wife and one child would have needed to earn on these criteria $42.68 a week in the June quarter. That family group would be very lucky as it would qualify for assistance. The figure for the family group of a husband, wife and 2 children was given as $49.91 a week. That family group would qualify, but it would not qualify for the full assistance. It would qualify only for a one-third assistance. The family group of a husband, wife and 3 children would need to have an income of $52.56 a week to be on a very stringent poverty line. Of course, a family group earning that income, which it must earn to be just above the poverty line, would be immediately placed beyond eligibility for this subsidised health insurance scheme. That is very vicious and very cruel. The family group in Victoria of a husband, wife and 4 children would need $59.86 a week. It would have no hope of qualifying under this scheme. The family group of a husband, wife and 5 children on $67.44 would have no hope of qualifying under this scheme, nor would the family group of a husband, wife and 6 children on $74.97 a week. It can be seen that any family group in Victoria of a husband, wife and 3 or more children would be receiving such income that they would not be eligible for assistance under this subsidised medical scheme. 
In my view the best system would be to offer a scheme whereby everybody would be covered as a result of a  U  per cent surcharge being imposed on taxable income. But the Government has no intention of introducing such a scheme because it would be contrary to the Government's ideology. However, it could at least introduce the system suggested in its report by the Nimmo Committee whereby there was a tapered means test on the basis of a minimum wage of $46.50 up to say $50.50 a week. One-third assistance could still apply in those circumstances. A family could then be allowed to earn $4 a week for every child after the second child. That would be a much fairer system than the system at the present moment. I do recommend the comments I have made to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson). 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity. 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children. 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies. 
nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
A joint Commonwealth State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
The immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
The provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A number of speakers on the Government side this afternoon have tried to justify these very inadequate social service increases on the grounds that by comparison with rising costs and payments made during the time of the Chifley Government things are better than they were. But that is not the point. The point is that we are dealing with tens of thousands of people who simply cannot provide a reasonable and civilised living standard in a community that is exceedingly affluent, in which very great profits are being made and in which unprecedented wages are being earned. That is the whole point about these social service increases. In fact, at the end of this financial year many people will be worse off than they were originally because of the inflationary effect that this Budget will have both directly in the charges that it imposes and indirectly through the effect that it will have on the economy. 
I would like briefly to refer to a subject that I have mentioned before. It is the position of the aged blind in the home at Bendigo called Mirridong. It is a situation about which I am very concerned. The 32 people resident at this institution are on the average 80 years of age. The Commonwealth has put itself in the extraordinary position of assisting the institution with its capital costs to provide extra nursing accommodation for 20 people. What is extraordinary about the situation is that although the Commonwealth has assisted with the capital costs, it has not assisted with the recurrent costs with the result that the Mirridong Home for the Aged Blind in Bendigo can still accommodate only 32 aged blind instead of the 50 for which it is suited. 
I have made representations to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on this subject. Unfortunately, I have not received the constructive and satisfactory reply that I expected to receive. The result is that the financial position of Mirridong' is deteriorating so rapidly that after about the end of October it could be forced into a position of having to close. This is so for one simple reason: It is that while wage increases are taking place at a tremendous rate the income of the home remains static. In fact, it has no more than $4,000 in its reserve account to carry on for the present financial year. I and the executives of this institution do not see how the institution can carry on. When the new wing was opened in March of this year it was hoped that it would provide accommodation for an extra 20 people. But the committee which runs Mirridong decided that it had better suspend action and see what benefits were contained in the Budget, and consider whether it could finance extra residents in this new wing. Unfortunately, the Budget was a great disappointment. It is quite impossible at present to foresee how this institution will even be able to cater for its present number beyond October. 
Here is an example of what has been happening in the field of rising costs. Weekly bed costs have risen rapidly by almost 50 per cent since 1968-69. In Mirridong average bed costs in 1968-69 were $44.51 a week. They rose in 1969-70 to $49.49 and in 1970-71 to $64.25. A very substantial increase has occurred, mainly accounted for by increases in wages. Of course, that is a problem that results from Commonwealth policies - the Government's failure to control inflation in the community. The aged blind living in Mirridong are being made victims of that failure by this Government to meet its own responsibilities because they cannot cope with the increasing costs. 
For example, in 1970 there was a wage increase which amounted to about 4 per cent, but in December 1970 there was a very substantial increase of 18 per cent. In 1971 there was the national wage increase of 6 per cent. Recently, another increase has been announced which could cost the institution an extra $6,240. This has caused a very serious situation. As I say, the Mirridong home has no more than $4,000 in its reserve account to carry on for the present financial year. The Minister for Social Services is sitting at the table. I would like him to look at this subject very urgently because it is a very important matter. My correspondence with the Minister shows that he has not done as much as he could do in relation to this matter. 
I turn to another subject which is also very important. It is still in the field of health care for the aged. This Budget has been a severe disappointment to organisations that are in charge of public and private care of the aged in Australia, and in particular in Victoria. Many of the people who run these organisations were led to believe that there would be an increase in the subsidies paid towards the care of the aged. They were led to believe, or certainly had some grounds for hoping, that there would be an increase in expenditure by the Commonwealth Government on the capital development of public nursing homes. They also had grounds for hoping that nursing home accommodation in the future would be covered within the system of voluntary health insurance. On each of these 3 counts they have been grossly disappointed. 
This Budget shows utter neglect for the needs of the aged ill and infirm. I instance what has been happening in the field of public nursing homes in Victoria. One has only to look at the figures provided by the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria to see how vastly inadequate is the provision for the aged ill and infirm in Victorian public institutions. One has only to compare 2 figures to see this. Since 30th June 1968 the number on the waiting list has risen from 4.653 to an estimated 7,500 at 30th June 1971. So there has in fact been a 50 per cent increase in the waiting list. 
By comparison the number of nursing beds has increased in the same period by only slightly less than 5 per cent. At 30th June 1968 in Victorian public nursing homes there were 3,820 beds. In 1971 there were only 4,000 beds - an increase of a mere 180 - while the waiting list had increased by one half to approximately 3,000. What we should have in Victoria ideally is at least a tripling of the amount of accommodation for the aged ill and infirm in public nursing homes, but in fact all that we have is not a 200 per cent increase but a mere 4.7 per cent increase in the number of beds. 
I instance the situation in my electorate merely to give an example. In Bendigo and Castlemaine we have 2 very fine public nursing homes. We have the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged and the Alexander Home and Hospital for the Aged at Castlemaine. Altogether 698 people are accommodated and cared for in those 2 institutions. They have a combined waiting list of 586, but the interesting thing is that for at least 4 years now both of those institutions have had drawn up plans which would provide extra accommodation for a combined total of 268. If those plans had been implemented, one half of the waiting list of those 2 institutions would have been catered for. But the money has not been made available from the State Government to meet its responsibilities and the waiting lists continue to lengthen. There is a combined waiting list of 586. A person can wait up to 2 years to get into one of these nursing homes in Bendigo and Castlemaine. 
One of the very interesting things is that in the city of Bendigo, where there is project for 6 additional storeys above the day hospital at the Home and Hospital for the Aged, it was planned to accommodate an extra 168 people. The people of Bendigo 4 years ago contributed $100,000 for a project which was estimated to cost about $1.5m. So the people of Bendigo have already met their responsibility, but the money is still lying idle because  Sir Henry  Bolte, the Premier of Victoria, will not allow the Hospitals and Charities Commission to release this money for the aged ill. I will reveal the situation behind this later on. 
What could we have expected? What were people reasonably entitled to expect? The first thing we were entitled to expect was an increase in nursing benefits because the main problem with nursing homes is not merely the capital expenditure in putting the institutions up but more importantly it is maintaining them once they have been constructed. The main source of funds for this work is the Commonwealth. In fact it is not possible for more nursing homes to be put up in any State without an increased grant from the Commonwealth Government for maintenance costs. In Victoria we have a subsidy of $2 a day for aged ambulatory patients in nursing homes. This subsidy has remained unchanged since 1962, when it was made available to all patients. In 1958 the $2 a day was made available to those who had private health insurance. It is interesting to note that in 1958, when the $2 a day for each patient was made available, the single rate pension was $8.25. Thirteen years later the single rate pension has doubled to $17.25, but the $2 a day provided by the Commonwealth remains the same. At the same time the $5 a day intensive care benefit has remained the same since 1969. 
Unless these benefits are increased or more money is made available directly to State governments the chaos in public nursing homes throughout Australia will continue. To see how grossly unfair these benefits are one has only to compare them with other benefits. For a public general hospital the Commonwealth makes available a $2 a day subsidy, and with hospital benefits it makes available $13 a day for public ward accommodation and up to $28  a  day for private ward accommodation. 
Yet the Government draws this grossly artificial distinction between conventional acute illness and the illnesses associated with old age. This is unreasonable and inequitable. 
We can see an example of the decreasing impact of the Commonwealth subsidy on the financing of these institutions by looking at the Castlemaine Alexander Home and Hospital for the Aged. In 1969 the Commonwealth contribution met 24.2 per cent of the running costs of this institution. By 1971 this figure had dropped back to 21.2 per cent. All the Commonwealth has to do is merely maintain its subsidy at the present rate and these institutions will be strangled. This is what is happening. In 1969- 70 26.8 per cent of the running costs of the Mirridong Home for the Aged Blind were being met by the Commonwealth. In 1970- 71 this figure had dropped to 19.1 per cent. To deal with this problem requires capital grants to the States for nursing homes. This was recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, which said that it was unreasonable that there was such small development in public nursing homes and that this could be rectified only by the Commonwealth's making unmatched grants to the State governments. This is what the Commonwealth Government has not done. 
It was also reasonable to expect that nursing home hospital care, in the framework of this Government's philosophy, would have been included in the voluntary health scheme. This has not been done. The result is that if a person cannot get into a public nursing home he must go to either a private hospital or a private nursing home. I understand that at present in Victoria the minimum weekly cost in a private nursing home is $66. A person's pension and the Commonwealth subsidy cannot make up that cost. In other States the average weekly cost would be a minimum of $45. In addition private hospitals do not provide the occupational therapy, physiotherapy and the various other paramedical types of care that the public nursing homes provide. 
I end this section of my speech by quoting from the Victorian Council for the Aging, the Victorian Association of Homes and Hospitals for the Aged and the Victorian Council of Social Services, who wrote this telegram to the Federal Treasurer reflecting their frustration and disappointment at this Budget: 
The undersigned co-ordinating organisations representing those non-profit bodies responsible for all aspects of care for aged and infirm people express the bitter disappointment of their members at the disregard in' the Budget of the needs of the elderly who require supervised accommodation and nursing or domiciliary care. Our sense of shock is the more profound because of "he courtesy with which our many submissions and deputations were received and the understanding that Ministers showed at the problem. End result of this will inevitably lead to a reduction in the volume and the quality of the care given to sick aged pensioners by voluntary and State nursing homes and a consequent undermining of the function of the Aged Persons Homes Act.  1 think everything they say in that telegram is entirely true. Finally I make some reference to the dispute that has existed for 2 years now between the Government of Victoria and the Commonwealth Government over the Victorian Government's refusal to participate in the Commonwealth Government's system of comprehensive care for the aged. This is quite a disgraceful and scandalous situation.  Sir Henry  Bolte is making aged people hostages in his stand and deliver campaign against the Commonwealth Government. What  Sir Henry  Bolte is saying is that the Victorian Government will not accept Commonwealth money for the care of the aged until the Commonwealth Government produces a financial relationship with the States that is satisfactory to the Victorian Government. That quite clearly is blackmail. 
It is the aged people who are becoming victims of  Sir Henry  Bolte's running battle with the Commonwealth over financial responsibility. It is a scandalous and intolerable situation. The result is that the Victorian Government has now denied aged people in that State of at least $1,159,600 over 2 years, and possibly towards $1m, through refusing to take part in the scheme. For example, under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act introduced in May 1969, more than 2 years ago,  Sir Henry  Bolte has deprived Victoria of $549,000. Under the provisions of the States Grants Paramedical Services Bill 1969 he has deprived Victoria of $136,000 and under the provisions of the States Grants (Home Care) Bill 1969 he has deprived Victoria of an estimated $274,000 for housekeeper and borne help services and perhaps $200,000 "for senior citizens centres. It is not possible to estimate how much he has caused Victoria to lose in subsidies for welfare officers at senior citizens' centres. This battle has gone on now for 2 years. The Commonwealth Government is making available money which is urgently required by aged people in Victoria but  Sir Henry  Bolte refuses to allow it to be provided to them. I do not blame him for everything because, as the Senate Select Committee pointed out, this assistance, particularly for nursing homes, should be provided on an unmatched basis. But the point is that almost Sim which has been made available over 2 years has been denied to the aged people who are being sacrificed because of  Sir Henry's  political disputes with his comrades in the Liberal Party. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the name of each (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private secondary school in each Commonwealth Electoral Division, and what was the total secondary enrolment in each school in the last year for which figures are available. 
In which of these schools and in what year 
has Commonwealth money been expended or 
is the expenditure of Commonwealth money planned for the provision of (i) libraries and (ii) science blocks, and what is the sum involved in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can he state the number of people in each State and Territory in. each of the categories of (a) unemployed, (b) migrants, (c) sickness beneficiaries, (d) other eligible beneficiaries and (e) families with weekly incomes of (i) below $42.50, (ii) between $52.45 and $45.50 and (iii) between $45.50 and $48.50, who have applied for subsidised health insurance by registering with (A) the Commonwealth Department of Social Services and (B) a hospital and medical benefits society since the introduction of the subsidised medical services scheme? 
Can he say what percentage of those eligible for this assistance in each of the categories mentioned have applied for assistance in each State and Territory. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It refers to the subsidised health insurance scheme for low income families. Did the Minister, when he introduced this scheme, quote figures which indicated that the scheme would cover a total of 184,000 families, or over half a million adults and children, living in poverty or near poverty? Did he also say last year that changes in the national health scheme would help to provide financial protection for every person in the community? Is he aware of figures produced this week by the Department of Health which show that only 6,402 families, or fewer than 16,000 persons, were receiving help at 30th June - in other words, less than 4 per cent of all eligible persons? How does the Minister explain the almost total collapse of a scheme which has been in operation for almost 2 years? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister will recall that about a fortnight ago I asked him a question about the subsidised medical scheme for lower income earners which he was not able to answer. Is he now able to explain the almost total failure of this scheme as shown by figures indicating that only 7 per cent, or 13,000 out of the estimated 184,000 families eligible for assistance under this scheme, have been approved by the Department of Social Services and that about only half of this number have been registered with a benefits organisation? What steps has he in train to ensure that all people who are eligible for assistance do so benefit especially as roughly 84,000 families earning between $46.50 and $52.50 must be in the scheme for 2 months to benefit? Finally, as the means test at present victimises large families who need a larger income to be above the poverty line than the means test allows, will he broaden the means test to take account of differing incomes needed for differing family sizes? 
asked the Minister Social Services, upon notice: for 
Which Councils have provided accommodation for aged persons in each year since the Aged Persons Homes Act was amended to enable local government to qualify for subsidy. 
What sum was provided by (a) the council and (b) the Commonwealth, and for how many persons was accommodation provided in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many married military personnel are engaged in the entire Puckapunyal-Seymour area. 
What is the total number of married quarters available in this area. 
How many applications for married quarters were (a) lodged in the year 1970-71 and (b) still outstanding on 30th June 1971. 
How many married personnel engaged in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area were (a) renting and (b) buying private accommodation as at 30th June 1971. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
How many people were employed at the Commonwealth Ordnance Factory at Bendigo in (a) 1940, (b) 1945, (c) 1950, (d) 1955, (e) 1960,  (f)  1965, (g) 1970 and (h) at 30th June 1971. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students have (a) sat for and (b) been awarded Commonwealth Technical Scholarships in each technical school in the Electoral Division of Bendigo in each year since the scheme was introduced. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the Opposition regards the disastrous failure of the Government's subsidised medical scheme as an urgent matter of public importance. Involving, as it does, the welfare of tens of thousands of Australian families, this matter of urgency is of the utmost importance. It represents our demand for action after almost 2 years of dereliction of responsibility by the Government. Like the entire voluntary health insurance system that the scheme was aimed at helping to prop up, it is on the point of collapse. The passage of almost 2 years since its introduction in January last year has dramatically highlighted in the most compelling way the failure of a system whose objective is not the welfare of people, but the protection of property and profit for vested interests in the medical insurance business and the propagation of party dogma at any expense to the community. The failure of the subsidised medical scheme is yet further proof that the Australian Labor Party's system of automatic insurance through the pay packet, levied according to ability to pay and with exemptions for low income groups, is not only the most equitable means, but also the only effective means of insuring the entire community against the cost of ill health. lt was inevitable that the Government's subsidised medical scheme should fail to reach the poor in the Australian community. It was not, after all, intended to do so. Its aim was not to relieve hardship and poverty. The scheme could have been one of the most significant pieces of social engineering in the nation's history. For tens of thousands of Australian families it could have helped to provide a break in the poverty cycle in which low income, poor housing, poor diet arid poor hygiene are passed on from parents to children. But this was not the Liberal Party's objective. The Government's objective was to perpetuate the existing system of health insurance. A major criticism of this system was that some 15 to 20 per cent of the population either did not insure or could not afford to insure themselves within the existing system. With this major criticism of the Nimmo Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance posing as a threat to the Government's system, the appearance had to be given that something was being done. Yet in inflicting on the community the continued survival of the voluntary health insurance scheme, all that the Liberal Party was doing was inflicting on the poorer people of Australia the massive jungle of paper work and red tape which had already made the system wasteful and irrelevant for the majority of people. 
If the Government had intended to restrict its claimed improvements to the smallest number of people possible it could scarcely have produced a better scheme than the subsidised medical scheme. Those who were uninsured 2 years ago are still uninsured; those who were most vulnerable to the ravages of sickness and the financial disasters associated with sickness are still exposed. The Government's scheme is as useless today as it was 2 years ago. The benefits organisations thrive in their wealth and in their multitudes. The medical profession profits and prospers. The poor are ignored. Government Ministers have been so acutely embarrassed by the failure of their subsidised medical scheme that they have resorted to the most transparent manipulation of figures. Let us look at the statistics of failure which the Government has had to falsify, exaggerate and inflate. 
According to a written answer given to a question on notice on 16th September last by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  only about 40 per cent of all those people receiving social service benefits in 1970 were insured with a private benefits organisation. The figures indicate that only about 40 per cent of the 200,000 people registered with the Commonwealth Department of Social Services took the second step to insure with a benefits organisation. So only 4 in 10 of that group of people have covered themselves. Of over 100,000 migrant families and individuals who arrived in Australia in 1970, only about 27,000, or 1 in 4, applied for registration with a health benefits organisation. They were all automatically entitled to coverage, but only 1 in 4 insured with a private benefits organisation. 
Figures given in 1969 and 1970 by the former Minister for Health - the present Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  - who introduced this scheme indicated that there were approximately 184,000 specifically low income families living on the minimum wage or $6 above it - these figures are in black and white - who would have been entitled to full or partial subsidy for the cost of health insurance. But the figures given by the Minister for Health indicate that only about 13,000 or 7 per cent of these people had registered with the Commonwealth Government and that only one-half of this number had taken the step to register with a private benefits organisation. These are the statistics of failure. I have quoted publicly these statistics, derived from the Minister for Health himself, to point up the collapse of this scheme. 
The superseded Minister for Health, the present Minister for Immigration, says that the figures are misleading. Little wonder that the former Minister for Health so deceitfully resorts to distorted figures to cover up the failure of the scheme of which he spoke so highly when in the House on 14th April last year he said: 
The advances made possible by this Bill, in conjunction with the other improvements introduced by this Government in 1963 and 1969, will bring financial protection against the costs of medical and hospital treatment within the reach of every person in the community. 
Some claim. Little wonder, then, that in answering a question last Tuesday, he fell back on the claim that the number of low income families receiving benefit under the scheme was not in fact 13,000; instead he said it was 84,000. Let us see just how fraudulent this claim is. Firstly, the figures given by the Minister relate to people who signed up with a health benefits organisation in the course of a whole year. These include migrants, families on a specifically low income and people receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefit from the Commonwealth. Had the Minister been honest enough to examine the number of people registered with a health benefits organisation at a given time he would have admitted that as at 30th June of this year a total of only 21,000 members were registered with a hospital benefits organisation and only about 22,000 were registered with a medical benefits organisation. This is the reality as to how many of these people were covered as at 30th June of this year, not how many were covered in and out of one continuous year. So we can see that the figure which the Minister used in claiming that there were 84,000 low income families inflates the success of the scheme by about 300 per cent. 
The second point to bear in mind when looking at the Minister's figures is that the great majority of people referred to in the figure of 84,000 derived only a short term benefit from the scheme. One expects that a scheme aimed at protecting low income families would be for a long term. We are talking about low income over a long period - chronically low wages and low living standards. But in fact probably 40 per cent of the males receiving unemployment benefit, referred to by the Minister in that figure of 84,000, were receiving it for less than one month, and probably about 80 per cent were receiving it for less than 3 months. This evidence is suggested on page 59 of the annual report for the Department of Social Services this year. 
Similarly, probably 52 per cent of the males receiving sickness benefit had been receiving it for less than 3 months. Migrants are eligible for free insurance for only 2 months. So what we are talking about is an inflated figure that pretends that long term cover is being given to a significant number of people in the community. That is not the case. 
The vast majority of special beneficiaries - who also make up the 84,000 claimed by the Minister - were women. They were receiving benefits and insurance cover for less than 3 months. Let us consider those who are specifically low income families, who receive the minimum wage or up to $6 more than that. Here we find from page 64 of the report of the Department of Social Services that 57 per cent of all the families in the categories of class A, class B and class C had been enrolled in the subsidised local scheme for more than 6 months. So only a tiny majority of the people who were members of the whole scheme were covered for any significant period. Let us dispel the cloud of confusion that the Ministers have deliberately thrown around the claim that the 84,000 supposedly included within their scheme are' actually low income families. If this is supposed to mean that they are people on long term low incomes of less than $52.50 a week then let us see what follows. 
For one thing, using the Government's suggestion that two-thirds of those enrolled in benefits organisations- are low income families and individuals, then of all the 300,000 applications passed by the Commonwealth Government last year as eligible for assistance, probably 200,000 should have been chronically low income families. If that were the case, the number registered in 1970 as specifically low income families should not have been 13,000 but a far greater figure. But that did not happen. What we are talking about in the groups outside class A, class B and class C, the specifically low income groups, are people some of whom are on low incomes, but not all of them and not even a significant number of them. Likewise, only 25 per cent of the migrants arriving last year enrolled with the private benefits organisations during their 2 months eligibility. These migrants were likely to be from the 
English speaking countries and on incomes probably higher than $52.50. Thus, the low income earners, particularly from Greece and Italy, were likely to be in that group which did not register with a benefits organisation. 
Again, only 40 per cent of the unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries registered with a benefits organisation, lt can reasonably be argued that the very low income earners in these categories are more likely to be found in the 60 per cent of those who did not register with a benefits organisation than among the 40 per cent who did. lt is clear that this system has failed. No amount of distortion of figures by Government Ministers can conceal that fact. One thing that is most disturbing is the very small number of families led by adult male wage earners that are covered in this scheme. At 30th June this year there were probably no more than 2,000 families led by male wage earners in this subsidised scheme, in the class A, class B and class C system. If that is not a system which has failed I do not know what is. One might ask why so few have been included. The answer is that virtually every adult male wage earner in this country has been excluded from the system because of the minimum wage means test. The minimum wage is $46.50. 
If one looks at the Commonwealth means test applying in the various capital cities one will see bow cruel and how stringent it is. The minimum wage in Sydney is . $47.10. In Melbourne it is $46.30. In Brisbane it is $44.60. In adelaide it is $45.90. In Perth the minimum wage is $46.40. In Hobart it is $47 and in Canberra is it $46.60. The State minimum wages are $46.30 in Victoria, $46.80 in Queensland, $45.90 in South Australia, $49 in Western Australia and $47 in Tasmania. The interesting thing about the group of people in the less than $46.50 a week income bracket who have registered is, as the Department of Social Services report indicates, that 6 out of 10 families registered are families led by women and, in particular, by deserted wives. What we are finding is that many males' in Australia simply could not afford to lead a family on the means test involved in this system. So the majority of people in the scheme are women, because they earn far less and are relying on State government subsidies. 
I would like to refer to a number of cases of genuine hardship that this scheme overlooks. Let me say one thing for sure. This scheme will not work. The only way in which it is possible to insure- every person in the Austraiian community is to have a national health insurance scheme in which people are insured through their pay packets. The scheme cannot possibly work in relation to aborigines. Living in the fringe areas of the south west of Western Australia are probably 6,000 to 7,000 aboriginals. They were formerly provided for by a Government grant of about $20,000 a year made to doctors to care for the health of aborigines. When this subsidised medical scheme came in, it replaced that system. I understand that now there are fewer than 1,000 aborigines covered. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he take steps to introduce a stabilisation scheme for the egg industry despite the refusal of the Victorian Government to participate  in  such a scheme. 
I wish to support the amendment moved by the Opposition to this Bill. I dp so because I am concerned about the financial position facing fruit growers in my own electorate in particular at Harcourt and the future of the townspeople whose livelihoods depend so much upon the growers. I have already spoken on the position facing Harcourt. I would merely add in' general reference to the position of fruit growers in Australia that their incomes are in the vast majority of cases totally inadequate by today's standards. Costs of all goods and inputs are escalating, and prices andprofits are diminishing. The uncertainty of present overseas markets leaves a large question mark over Australia's fruit growing areas. This very serious economic position one of stagnation is affecting fruit growing towns and contrasts markedly with rising profits and wages in other sectors of the Australian economy. 
Growers are leaving their properties, many of them heavily ensnared in debt which has been aggravated, in the case of Harcourt, by a series of natural disasters including hail, frost, wind and . fire. 
Orchards have been bulldozed and properties are up for auction. The employment situation is very grim, and the threat of depopulation hangs over the area.' The future of Australia's apple and pear markets is very much in doubt. The United Kingdom takes about 55 per cent of our export apples, which are admitted duty free. But competition from our main rivals South Africa and New Zealand has intensified, and Great Britain's possible entry into the European Economic Community will mean not only the loss of our concessional entry into the United Kingdom but also the impositionof tariffs on our imports, with the removal of tariffs on exports from the EEC countries. To face these threats, Australia will have to concentrate more on the production of those varieties and sizes of fruits that are most popular in our export markets. It is good that much has already been done in this matter by growers themselves. 
It may perhaps also mean that increasing quantities of apples and pears will be used for processing to save them from the hazards of seasonal fluctuations in supply and demand. We will also have to act with more imagination and vigour to diversify our trade outlets in the Asian area to take up the. slack that will arise in the United Kingdom and Europe. I pay tribute to the growers who have already made economies in picking and packing, for example, to reduce costs. But they will always be at the mercy of exporters and shipowners. Against these, only the Government can take effective action. In this context I join with the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  in expressing concern that the support prices in this Government's stabilisation scheme are related to f.o.b. returns and have no relation in particular to shipping charges. There is no doubt that the Commonwealth Government must fight the shipping combine which is now demanding a vicious 24 per cent increase in freight rates. The Government must support the case of the Australian Apple and Pear Board. If the Government does not do this then I believe that it should protect the growers against these savage freight increases by subsidising the freight rates or by including freights as one of the costs in the stabilisation scheme. 
There is no doubt that the increases demanded by the shipping lines will almost cripple the export of Australian apples and pears. The increase could mean the addition of about 40c to 50c to the cost of a bushel of fruit. This has come at a time when returns on the 1.5 million pears exported from Victoria last year were only marginal and when the . export of some 645,000 bushels of apples this year will draw on the federal stabilisation scheme to the extent of about 45c to 47c a bushel. Little wonder that Tasmanian growers have been advised that if the freight increases are allowed it will be worthless, indeed ruinous, for many growers to export their fruit. It would be more advisable to let the fruit rot on the trees. I stress that it costs approximately $6.24 to put a case of apples on sale in England, that is, from the Australian grower to the shop in the United Kingdom, but of this, $3.33 is eaten up in shipping and marketing charges. This is the sacrifice that the Australian apple and pear growers have to make. 
I would like to refer briefly to the formula of stabilisation in the Government scheme in which a maximum of 80c a bushel is the maximum support for a total of 4.4 million bushels sold at risk. The Bill allows for a review of the support price but not for the rate of stabilisation. I believe this is a very unrealistic situation and it can only mean greater hardship for growers in (he future. Why was the figure of 4.4 million chosen? After all, some 70 per cent of apples and 45 per cent of pears are exported at risk these days. There is every reason to believe that the level of exports will continue to be around 10 million bushels. The amount exported on consignment this year was around 7.5 million bushels. So where does this leave the maximum offer of 80c, which sounds so impressive? As the honourable member for Braddon and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out in the debate yesterday any excess above the 4.4 million bushels will diminish the maximum price. This will be totally unrealistic to the Australian producer. Thus, if the support is for 7.5 million bushels and not for 4.4 million bushels then the support to the grower will prove to be about only 47c a bushel if his fruit does not reach the price set in this Bill. This will put growers in a hopeless position. 
Australia can give very substantial protection to its secondary industries; it can give a very effective stabilisation plan to wheat growers; and it can provide fairly effective schemes such as the dried fruits stabilisation plan, the dairy industry stabilisation plan and the tobacco stabilisation plan. We can also offer a deficiency payment for wool of quite substantial proportions. Yet the Government so far has refused to give similar security to apple and pear growers. This is why the Opposition believes it is essential that a more realistic figure for the rate of stabilisation should be provided, and accordingly it will move for a review of the rate of stabilisation. 
I would like to support also the Opposition's call for the establishment of a single statutory national marketing authority. I am surprised that so much opposition has been recorded by Government supporters to this proposed amendment. Government supporters continually talk about the growth of bureaucracy and the danger from big brother when such an authority is not only essential for the apple and pear industry but also actively sought by growers themselves. I have never yet heard any Government supporter complain about the bureaucracy and big brother characteristics of the Australian Wheat Board, and very rightly so. Yet they are all now making the same fuss about the establishment of a marketing authority for apples and pears that they made before the establishment of the Wheat Board. 
The simple fact is that the present marketing of apples and pears overseas is unco-ordinated, over-complex, archaic and costly. The first victim of this outdated system of private enterprise marketing is the Australian apple and pear grower himself. A multitude of exporters compete with each other or co-operate for private gain in the marketing of this invaluable Australian resource. Some 19 of them are involved in Tasmania alone. In marketing this involves quite unjustifiable extra costs that could be avoided - both in Australia itself and on arrival at the overseas port. We find, for example, that if the fruit is not unitised it may be confused and mingled in storage on board the vessel and may have to be sorted out again on arrival overseas. One could mention that in some cases the comparatively long delay in arranging the packages after they arrive at the port may mean that the fruit arrives at the shop perhaps less attractive than that provided fresh by our foreign competitors. At the same time, it is nonsensical that Australian fruit should be sold overseas Under about 150 brand names. This is private enterprise gone mad. lt is particularly Unjustifiable given the use of one brand name by New Zealand and South Africa whose fruit is exported by a single marketing authority in each case. 
Apart from the economy and efficiency that can be obtained by the means mentioned, a single marketing authority could also speak for the entire industry with a single voice and, as the Government has said again and again, this is just what it likes to see and hear. There is no doubt that this would strengthen Australia in its exploitation of present markets and its pursuit of new markets which will be needed in particular if the United Kingdom enters the European Economic Community. Also it would strengthen the fruit industry in its negotiations with shipping lines over freights as all growers would be speaking as one through the authority and the authority would be that much stronger. There is no doubt that the Australian Wheat Board has been outstandingly successful, when Government political policies have not obstructed it, in its consolidation of existing overseas markets and in its search for new markets. There is no reason why such a body should not provide ' the same benefits for Australian fruit growers. 1 have no doubt that apple and pear growers cannot get the maximum return possible on their produce so long as the existing marketing system continues. It urgently needs overhauling, not in the name of increased bureaucracy but for the sheer well-being of producers who are at present in serious straits, and in the interests of the well-being of Australia. South Africa and New Zealand have learned only too well the costly lessons of having multitudes of middle men between the producer and the purchaser. 
Australia urgently needs new ideas and new methods. Other economies that could be made and passed on to the grower would include the purchasing of fertilisers, packing materials, sprays and so forth, because they would be handled by the one authority. In particular a strong single statutory marketing authority is essential to provide leadership in the industry and to plan ahead for the future. Many growers have pointed out that there is no single authority within the whole industry which can identify all its problems, make recommendations on how to tackle them and then supervise their carrying out. The future of the industry demands a positive sense  al  direction and positive leadership. The lack of this can only hinder the industry. For example, the industry lacks the means that such an authority could' provide to tackle rising costs and unnecessary costs at their roots, and can only try to keep up with these after they have been caused. So this scheme before the House, like most Liberal Parry schemes, accepts the unnecessary wastefulness and costliness beyond the growers' control in production, presentation, financing, shipping, marketing and so on, and leaves the grower completely exposed and largely unable to prevent them. 
The Labor Party believes that just as there should be one single statutory marketing authority with one of its functions being to have supervision over all problems of cost affecting wool growers, so should there be such an authority for apple and pear growers. I note from the speeches that were made during the debate yesterday that Government supporters have asked 2 questions: Firstly, would such a body be constitutional? Secondly, where is the money coming from? I have been handed a document by the honourable member for Braddon in whose capable hands my birthplace remains. This document is the sub-' mission of the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania and it answers questions that were raised by the  Hon.  D. F. Clark, MHA, the Minister for Housing in Tasmania, on 20th June 1971. The Minister asked: 
The cost of operating could be $20m annually with $2-3m being required in cash. It is clear where this money is coming from? 
The answer given by the Federation was: 
The chief source of finance would be the the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank whose function is to provide finance to statutory marketing boards and similar authorities. Such finance would be made available on the security of the fruit vested in the Authority. The Bank may require a State Government guarantee. Anything in the way of marketing expenses could be financed from this source including such items as the cost of overseas freight (about $12,300,000) and cartons (about $5,500,000). 
The Authority should be in  a  position to make limited seasonal advances to orchardings to cover the purchase of spray materials and other supplies. These should be financed in  a  sound business basis. The source of finance for this function would be  a  State guaranteed overdraft operating on a seasonal basis. The continuance of  an  effective stabilisation scheme will play a vital part in ensuring that growers costs are partly covered and in giving financial stability to the Authority. 
It is expected that the Authority would carry out its functions without the State Government having to subsidise the industry. The greater savings possible under an Authority would assist to achieve a more solvent position in the industry than currently exists. Suitable financial arrangements with the Authority and orchardings in respect to credit arrangements could well encourage trading banks to come back into a field previously vacated by them in favour of exporters. 
The money to repay seasonal advances will come from the same source as under the present system, the grower, who recoups it from the proceeds of the sale of his fruit, and if this is insufficient as sometimes happens, from his own pocket. Exporters sometimes make losses when they speculate on fruit but when the market risks are apparent as they were in the 1971 season these risks are borne by the grower. 
The second question that was raised was related to the constitutionality of such a scheme. The Tasmanian Apple and Pear Growers Federation was asked: 
Would the Australian Apple and Pear Board be able to issue a sole licence to the Authority and if so would this be challengeable in the High Court? 
The answer given was: 
Where Commonwealth and State legislation conflict the Constitution of the Commonwealth prevails. It is difficult to see where such conflict could eventuate in respect to the granting ofan export licence to the Authority. 
In other words, Government supporters are opposed to a proposal which is of the utmost importance to the growers concerned and they have raised specious points which have been refuted by the growers' organisation itself. 
The right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  said that if Government supporters agreed to this amendment it would mean defeating the Bill. What are the facts? Following a vote in favour of a statutory marketing authority, the Bill could be resubmitted immediately and be passed the same day. The right honourable gentleman must be joking. It would take a few minutes or a few hours at the most. The point is that members opposite do not want to put themselves into the embarrassing position of supporting an idea which was proposed by the Australian Labor Party and which has the support of the growers themselves. 
I should like to conclude by thanking the Minister for his prompt reply to a question that I asked about stabilisation in the egg industry. I mention it now because it concerns the whole problem we are now considering. In his answer, the Minister pointed out that a great deal of obstruction was being offered to the introduction of a stabilisation scheme for the whole of Australia because of the arrogance, small mindedness and complacency of the Victorian Government. Personally, I find it disgraceful that while many small farmers are being driven off their poultry farms in the present chaos, the Victorian Government still refuses to recognise its responsibility to egg producers by refusing to join the other mainland States whose governments favour control of production. I raise this point because the area of Harcourt, about which I have been speaking, is an important poultry producing area in which many egg producers are facing uneconomical returns from their produce, their future is very much in doubt because of the arrogance of the Victorian Government. 1 have referred to this question previously and I thank the Minister for his prompt reply and also for the action that he is taking in an attempt to put some pressure on the Victorian Government. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students in each (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private secondary school in each Commonwealth electoral division (as defined and boundaries for the 1969 Federal election) have (i) sat for Commonwealth secondary scholarship examinations and (ii) been awarded scholarships in each year since the scheme was introduced but excluding the examinations contested in 1971. 
What percentage of the total candidates, over this period and in each electoral division, was from each of the three groups of schools, and what percentage of all the scholarships was awarded to each group. 
What percentage of the students in each (a) school and (b) school system who sat for the examination was successful over this period in each electoral division. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) types and (b) levels of fees and charges were levied in each college of advanced education and institute of technology in 1971. 
What sum was raised from fees and charges in (a) each institution and (b) all of these institutions in 1970. 
What was the total recurrent income of (a) each institution and (b) all of these institutions in 1970, and what percentage of this income was from fees and charges. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many servicemen in the Puckapunyal/Seymour area have children of secondary school age. 
How many of these children attend (a) Government and (b) Catholic schools in the Seymour area, and (c) Government (d) Catholic (e) other private schools elsewhere. 
I wish to devote my speech to the health needs of the poor in Australia. I believe that the situation is so important that a committee of this House should be established to investigate the health needs of the poor and the under privileged groups in Australia and to make recommendations on how their needs should be met. I say this because of the evidence of the gross failure of the Commonwealth Government's subsidised medical scheme for low income families. Figures recently released indicate that there is a great and fundamental failing in this Government's provision for Australia's poor. Yet I believe that the collapse of the subsidised medical scheme is only the tip of the iceberg. Although this has been disastrous in itself nevertheless it exposes to the public only the financial side of the health care of low income families and groups in Australia. 
Let us briefly review the facts. The figures show that only 25 per cent of eligible migrant families and individuals arriving in Australia last year fully protected themselves in the Government's scheme by registering with a private benefits organisation. Only 4 in every 10 of Commonwealth social service beneficiaries receiving unemployment, sickness and special benefits protected themselves by registering with a private benefits organisation. Some dispute has, of course, been manufactured by the 
Government over the figures of those who are specifically low income families living under or slightly above the minimum wage. Suffice to say that even if we accept the dubious Government device of legislating 60,000 families out of the low income category so that today not 180,000 but 120,000 families are eligible for assistance, the simple fact is that this low income section of the community has been prevented by the over complexity and under publicity of the scheme from joining it. As at 30th June this year, just 18 months after the scheme came into operation, only 6,102 families in Australia earning less than $46.50 a week were registered with private benefits organisations and thereby protected against the costs of ill health. I repeat that as at 30th June this year, 18 months after the scheme came into operation, 6,102 families on incomes below $46.50 were registered with a private benefits organisation and properly covered by the Government's scheme. 
The failure of the Government to enlist people into its medical scheme is only the tip of the iceberg. The nine-tenths of the iceberg that 1 am afraid will not be seen, and has not been seen in the past, represents the overall health needs of the poor. This is what I believe should . be investigated by a special select committee of this House. The danger is that this Government, having been acutely embarrassed by the failure of its scheme, will fall victim to 2 temptations. Firstly, it will see only the insurance problem and not the overall problem of health care and, secondly, it will resort to a few gimmicks of public relations to resuscitate artificially a scheme which requires not sticking plaster but major surgery. Let us look at these 2 problems- The only solutions the Government has to the failure of its scheme are firstly, spending more money on advertising; secondly, simplifying a few procedures; thirdly, making better use of social workers and hospitals, mainly owned or employed by the State governments, to enlist those eligible into the scheme. 
Let me reiterate that the only means of including every citizen within a single insurance scheme is to have a single compulsory, universal insurance scheme that levies charges on the pay packet according to the ability to pay and with generous exemptions according to family size. Let us not forget the size of the problem that the Government's legislation should be dealing with but is not tackling. According to the Nimmo Committee's recommendations made 2 years ago. the means test should take account of family sizes to cover 250,000 low income families or 1 million people. There is no doubt that the Government is hostile to such a scheme. It is satisfied with claiming eligibility for only 120,000 families. Yet only by including the largest number of low income families can the scheme succeed. Here is the Govern* ment's paradox: If it does not include all these families, the whole scheme will not be effective; but if it does, there will be so much red tape and bureaucracy involved in coping with a multiplicity of means tests that, as Scotton and Deeble have pointed out. the costs could not be justified to the public. The Government would be in the position of having to justify not having a single compulsory health scheme. This is one of the reasons why the Canadian royal commission on health recommended that for a health scheme to be effective and economically to exempt low income families, it would have to be a single compulsory scheme, that is, a scheme along the lines proposed by the Labor Party. 
How effective would attempts to revive the health scheme be? Firstly, in the case of migrants, only 1 in 4 of those arriving last year was registered in the Government scheme by fully, enrolling with a private benefits organisation. These are most likely to have been the migrants from English speaking countries who made up one half of migrants arriving in Australia in the June quarter. Regardless of the subsidised medical scheme, 1 estimate that probably 80 per cent of Greek, Italian and Turkish migrants arriving over the last 18 months have not been covered either in the subsidised scheme or in the benefits insurance scheme. The 1966 poverty survey in Melbourne showed that in Melbourne, 75 per cent of Greeks and Italians surveyed who arrived over the previous 5 years were not in a health benefits organisation. The surveyors also estimated that 98 per cent of the Greeks arriving in the last 18 months before the survey were not covered with insurance. Furthermore, Scotton and Deeble, reporting in a book entitled 'The 
Health of a Metropolis', said that their survey of Prahran in the last few years showed that cultural factors were a massive influence alongside the family's low income status in preventing these migrants from protecting themselves. While it took United Kingdom settlers in Australia 10 years to reach the Australian average of 77 per cent of the community being covered, in 10 years only 53 per cent of Greeks and Italians were enrolled in a health insurance organisation. In a period of less than 4 years only 51 per cent of United Kingdom settlers were insured, while the percentage of Greeks and Italians was less than 37 per cent. 
Thus any improvement for the 2 months eligibility of migrants - during which period they are probably healthiest of all - will be virtually of no significance as a means of enrolling certain groups of migrants in the benefits scheme and of protecting them. Yet even if we were able to include every newcomer into the health benefits system, we would still be faced with the fundamental question which demands investigation by no less important a body than a select committee of this House: that is, what sort of problems do the migrants arriving have, and how well are we meeting them? Just how vital this question is has been highlighted by the article in the 'National Times' on Monday entitled 'The Rising Migrant Health Scandal'. The article by Eric Walsh paints a grim picture of large scale neglect or ignorance of the health needs of migrants. It dramatically highlights the disastrous consequences for migrants in leaving the nation's health facilities and provisions unchanged despite the special and great needs of migrants. It lends support for my belief that under this Government the Department of Health has had its functions narrowly circumscribed within the ideological dogmas of the Government; that is, the Department does very little to examine and improve the health care of the nation, because it is preoccupied with making the Government's health insurance scheme stave off failure and because it is afraid of cutting across Liberal dogmas about State rights. The fundamental questions of the quality and availability of health care for the Australian people and, in particular, for such groups as migrants, have to be made subordinate to the question of the cost of care and the primary question here is the cost of insurance. Similarly, even supposing every low income family eligible for Government assistance was involved in the Government subsidised scheme, the fundamental questions would still remain: What sort of care do such families require, and are these needs being met? 
The scheme of course will not succeed. For example, only a fraction of families led by male wage earners on the minimum wage is included in the scheme at present. Indeed, if we assumed that every family registered with a private benefits fund as at 30th June this year was led by a mother, we would see that only a fraction of all the uninsured deserted wives in Victoria are covered in the scheme. 
According to the 1966 survey of poverty, while 17 per cent of intact families in Melbourne were not insured, the percentage of fatherless families not insured was 25 per cent. In 1966 there were about 15,000 such families in Victoria; so a quarter of these, or 3,750, would be uninsured. Yet no more than 2,373 families earning less than $46.50 or more were enrolled with the Government scheme in February this year, while 4 months later a total of only 658 families and individuals were registered with a private benefits organisation. As it happens, about 60 per cent of all the families registered under the category earning less than $4.50 were families led by women. Thus the scheme has massively discriminated against and excluded tens of thousands of low income families led by male wage earners and wives. The Government grasps at the straw of hope that tampering with the system will get all these people into it. It will not. 
Of equal importance is this: How are the poor being catered for? What are their needs? We simply do not know well enough. What are we doing about the situation where the low income family is either prevented from attending a doctor because the father has fallen behind with his bills or because of a shortage of doctors in his district? Perhaps he is attracted to the outpatients clinic because of cheap pharmaceutical costs or out of habit, or, being uninsured for treatment by a general practitioner, finds the treatment at the outpatients clinic either free or cheap enough to go without medical insurance. Are we satisfied with this system? And what of the health needs and the health care of the aged and others who are either enrolled in the pensioner medical scheme or are excluded from it by the tapered means test? The scheme has numerous defects and the gap is growing between the services offered to one minority in the community and the superior and more extensive services offered for those enrolled in the voluntary health insurance scheme as a whole. 
Those who are in the pensioner medical service are not covered for specialist treatment except at a public hospital, and basic services such as chiropody, physiotherapy, and optometrical services are not provided. The lack of fundamental requirements such as oxygen for aged people with, say, asthma is a vicious defect in the system. For example, only a few months ago one of my constituents complained to me that she was paying $31 a month, or almost a quarter of her and her husband's pension income per month, for a cylinder of oxygen. What would the husband's condition have been if he did not have the oxygen? Such is the system that even the doctors themselves have described it as being in many ways a second rate scheme. But perhaps the worst defect of the pensioner medical scheme is the uncertainty, doubt and worry about their future that members of the scheme have. Coupled with this is the feeling of charity and a handout being conceded rather than of a basic right being acknowledged. There is also the feeling among many pensioners, and among doctors who treat them and who sacrifice a portion of their income to do so, that the pensioners are a race apart. This causes suspicion and resentment among pensioners and gives rise to the fear of over-using the scheme. 
The uncertainty among pensioners arises from the dissatisfaction of doctors with the scheme. Not all doctors will treat pensioners. In the city of Bendigo only 15 of the 25 general practitioners, according to figures given to me earlier this year, will treat pensioners. I believe this is not only a unique but also a disgraceful situation. 
This represents a 40 per cent no-confidence vote in the Government's scheme of pensioner medical care. Even of those 15 doctors treating pensioners, some are treating them in only small numbers, and in some cases the pensioners are old patients treated before they become pensioners. Those who are treating pensioners have warned that they cannot treat any more than they are already treating. Others will not treat pensioners at all. Considerable heartbreak and distress is caused when the patient, on reaching retirement and pension age, is pushed off to the outpatients clinic or, alternatively, is advised that his pensioner medical service is not adequate and that to ensure the full services of a doctor he should enrol in a benefits fund. There was recently a case where one general practitioner was called out to a patient at night. Upon arriving and discovering that the patient was a pensioner he said: 'I would not have come if I had known you were a pensioner.' There are also some doctors who treat patients for simple problems but pass them on to the outpatients clinic for more complex treatment. 
There is no doubt that this is an unjust and discriminatory system which forces doctors to subsidise the Commonwealth Government and which offers pensioners frequently a second class service. The problem in Bendigo is made more difficult because the city has an unusually large percentage of pensioners in its population. It is also short of at least 8 general practitioners, like most country areas and also like some inner suburban areas. Similarly, it regularly faces the difficulty faced by most country areas of attracting sufficient doctors not only for private practice but also for the base hospital. As a consequence of all these factors, a very large number of low income families and pensioners attend not a general practitioner but the outpatient clinic of the base hospital. 
One could talk at length about the health needs of the aged, the low income families, migrants and the Aborigines, yet of all these groups it is difficult to speak effectively. It is difficult, if not impossible, to discuss the problem of the health care of the poor in Australia. The research has simply not been done. Indeed, there is hardly any research being done in Aus tralia on the social aspects of medical care. There is an appalling ignorance, both among the community at large and in the Government itself, of the health needs of the poor. The collapse of the Government's subsidised scheme shows clearly that its interest was not in the welfare of the poor but in the continuation of its health insurance scheme. Similarly, the Department of Health is allowed to show little interest in health care outside the programmes of public health and the battle to prop up the Government's health insurance scheme. The Government sees its Department of Health largely as a disburser of moneys to the States. So we know that as an initiator of forward looking plans of comprehensive health care for the community the Government has failed dismally. 
The poor are unseen and neglected. As a result, we know very little about the following: Firstly, the distribution and accessibility of general practitioners in poorer areas; secondly, the extent to which the poor are forced to use outpatients departments of public hospitals which are not designed to meet such needs; thirdly, the efficiency and economy of the use of outpatients departments by the poor; fourthly, the incidence of illness among the poor and the nature of this illness, especially chronic illness; fifthly, the connection between the ill health of the poor and the general pattern of their life style such as diet, hygiene, social and psychiatric problems and their promptness in seeking medical care; and, sixthly, the need to link health, education and social welfare services. By comparison with our appalling ignorance here, overseas - especially in the United States - the problem of the health care of the poor has received a tremendous amount of attention from governments and medical personnel. By comparison with the indolent apathy of the Australian Government, the United States Government has taken an active role in providing for the poor through substantial grants to States and to institutions for the care of the poor. 
American observers and medical people claim that the traditional pattern of medical practice does not serve the poor well, and that the use of outpatient clinics is an unsatisfactory means of meeting their needs. In particular they have recommended the establishment of special community health centres in poor areas containing not only general practitioners but also social workers, psychiatric social workers, home nurses, health educationists, community liaison officers and so on to provide not only care but also prevention and education. The theory behind these centres is that they concern themselves with general social problems of the poor which have a direct bearing on their health. Such centres, hopefully, will attract the poor to them so that they will have a more positive attitude towards their health problems and will seek care as early as possible rather than leaving it till later when the situation is worse. 
Thus not only do we need research on the subjects mentioned earlier. I am trying to track down some information on the subject. I was amazed at just how little research information there is in Australia on this subject. An extremely important part of such research would be to establish experimental community health centres, especially in poor areas, so that overseas theory and practice can be tested in Australia. In this regard, it is to be hoped that university departments of social and preventive medicine will sponsor such centres through the public hospitals with which they are associated. This has become common in the United States, and the Federal Government there makes special grants for foundations to set up community health centres. 
I strongly urge the Government therefore to give all the financial support necessary to the venture by the Department of Social and Preventive Medicine of Monash University in co-operation with the University of Melbourne to establish a community health centre in Prahran. The centre will co-ordinate and integrate community health and social services. Doctors, social scientists, representatives of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital and of the Mental Hygiene Authority will co-operate in this experiment. I strongly urge the Commonwealth not to allow financial obstacles to obstruct this project. 
Finally, to reiterate, there is an appalling ignorance of the health needs of the poor in Australia and of other underprivileged 
20369/71- R.-I81J 
groups. We do not know how these needs are being met. Accordingly, because I regard this matter as being of such importance, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Bendigo from moving: 
That this House is of the opinion that a select committee should be set up immediately to investigate and recommend on health care needs of underprivileged groups in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 2550 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 17th February 1971. 
I wish to speak briefly tonight about the need for an overhaul of the Commonwealth secondary scholarship system and the replacement of this means of granting scholarships with a new method. At present, the Commonwealth secondary scholarships' scheme is based upon a competitive examination. Scholarships are granted to that minority which attains the highest marks in these examinations. In some cases achievement at school is taken into account also. But the principal factor in the operation of this scheme is a competitive examination. I believe that this method should be replaced entirely and that in its place a means test should be introduced so that money is given to Australian students according to their needs and according to their parents' means. 
I say that for one simple reason. For 7 years the operations of this scheme have shown that the scheme discriminates massively against the children of low income families whether they be in the inner suburban areas or in country areas. In addition, it discriminates massively against migrant children. On the other hand, it is a perfect means of promoting and advancing those children who already are fortunate because of family circumstances. In many cases students who have received scholarships simply do not need them. It is interesting to relate that last month, in the 'Australian', a report appeared of a survey of parents whose children had been granted scholarships. Only 4 per cent of those parents said that they needed the assistance provided by those scholarships; 96 per cent saw no need for or were not moved very much by the whole system. 
I would state, firstly, why we should have a means test. The way in which this system has operated has been massively expensive because of red tape, paper work and bureaucracy. Between 1964 and 1971 the amount of money paid out under the Commonwealth scholarship scheme was 
S41.4m. In the last financial year - that is, 1970-71 - the value of benefits paid out in actual scholarships together with examination costs totalled $6,791,000. Scholarships were worth S6,387,000 while examination costs were $404,000. Looking at the figures over 7 years we see that the administration of this examination system has cost approximately $2.5m. I believe that this is an extraordinarily expensive way of selecting people who arc to receive the richest bounty in this community while reminding the remaining ninetenths of those in this category that, in the eyes of this Government, they are failures. That is what the system does. 
How many students sit for this examination? Last year, of the total of 181,000 students in the third last year of study, 90,000 sat for the examination. At the present moment the Commonwealth Government is massively examining one in every two intermediate students in Australia. Last year only 10,000 scholarships were allotted so 80,000 students had to lose. Yet under the scholarship examination system all students have to be tested. Last year the examinations cost $404,000. It is clear that the cost of this system for each successful student was $40.40. Not only is the Government giving out scholarships worth between $250 and $400 but also it is wasting $40.40 in choosing the best students and screening out those who do not meet the Government's standards. 
This is a massively costly system. It is over-bureaucratic. The paperwork involved is something terrific. This system can no longer be justified on grounds of economy let alone social justice. Four test papers are set, each of 2 hours. As 90,000 students are involved in the examinations 360,000 papers have to be marked. The 4 test papers consist of, firstly, written expression; secondly, comprehension and interpretation (sciences); thirdly, quantitative thinking, which means mathematics; and, fourthly, comprehension and interpretation in humanities. The papers have to be sent from the office of the Australian Council for Educational Research to the various State Departments of Education. They are then sent to the schools. The examinations have to be conducted and the papers returned for marking. One section of the papers has to be manually marked twice. 
This means that 90,000 papers have to be marked twice. Three of the papers can be marked by machine. But the important matter to stress is that 360,000 papers have to be marked at a cost of about $400,000. That is a lot of money which could be used profitably on children of families of low incomes. I think that this is a strong ground why the present scheme of competitive examinations should be abolished. 
I support the question which was asked by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this morning. The honourable member suggested a cost benefit analysis of the present Commonwealth scholarship scheme. If by that he meant the adoption of a means test rather than a competitive examination then I am all for that suggestion. On the basis of social justice this examination scheme simply can no longer be justified. It affects so few people. It is one of the main reasons why we have so many Government and Catholic school students dropping out and such a large number of other private school students going on. For example last year in Australia only about 25 per cent of Government school students continued on to their final secondary years. Those are the students who enrolled 5 years earlier. Only 32 per cent of the Roman Catholic students went on to their final years. By comparison 81 per cent of the other private school students went on to the final year. This situation shows the fantastic inequalities within the 3 school systems. 
In Victoria the non-Roman Catholic private school student has 4 times the chance of a Government school student of going on to the final year of secondary education. He has 3 times the chance of a Roman Catholic student of going on. 
If we look at the Commonwealth scholarship scheme we see the same sort of stark inequality. In Victoria the nonRoman Catholic school student has 5 times the chance of a Government school student of winning a Commonwealth scholarship. He has more than twice the chance of a Roman Catholic school student. In 1970 in Victoria only 3.4 per cent of all Government school students in the 4th form won a scholarship. Only 8 per cent of all Catholic school students in Victoria doing intermediate year won a scholarship. By comparison 17 per cent of all nonRoman Catholic school students won a scholarship. That shows a fantastic inequality. This is the scheme that is supposed to be aimed at increasing equality of opportunity. 
Many other things could be said about this. The evils of the system, its entrenched inequality and the social inequalities that it perpetuates are well known to honourable members. But I would stress that the proportion of scholarships being won by government school students and Catholic school students has decreased in the 7 years that the scheme has been operating. Even more amazing is the fact that although the number of intermediate students at government schools is increasing actually they are winning fewer scholarships today in Victoria. Therefore we have 2 inequalities. Firstly the proportion of scholarships being won by government school students is dropping and the actual number-- 
What is wrong with the teaching? If the Minister is willing to debate this I will be only too glad to take him up on it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health upon notice: 
What was the estimated cost' per bed per day in a public ward of a public hospital in each State and Territory in the last year for which figures are available. 
What was the amount paid by the Commonwealth per pensioner per day. . 
What was the number of pensioner beddays involved in each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In which institutions in the Electoral Division of Bendigo were patients receiving nursing care benefits as at 30th June 1971. 
How many patients in each institution were receiving the (a) $2 per day and (b) $5 per day subsidy. 
One of the things that is most disturbing about the activities of the Government in this matter has been the fact that what the Government is doing here is so much in contrast with the trends in international affairs. What the Government is doing is once again throwing Australia into a position where she can be involved in a re-escalation of the Vietnam conflict at the very time when the United States of America is de-escalating and when the Australian people want this Government to withdraw from the Vietnam war. That is the situation in which this decision to send advisers to train Cambodian troops in Vietnam has to be examined. Australia is withdrawing from Vietnam. New Zealand is withdrawing from Vietnam. The United States is withdrawing from Vietnam - slowly and tortuously, but she is going home. 
If we look at the American policy towards China we see that a whole new era in international relations is being ushered in. That era of conflict and tension between the United States and China, which brought about the conflict in Vietnam, is coming slowly to an end. The United States now is in a position of being prepared to negotiate with the People's Republic of China. A period of 22 years of conflict and tension between the United States and the People's Republic of China is being brought slowly and gradually to an end. This is the meaning of Nixon's intended visit to the People's Republic of China. At the same time, there is obviously a desire among the majority of nations to end the cold war conflict, and that has been shown by the fact that after 22 years the People's Republic of China has been welcomed into the United Nations by an overwhelming majority. What we are doing is in conflict not only with the trends of international relations but also with popular feeling within the United States itself, which is anti-war and pro-peace. This is what last week caused that dramatic move in which the American Congress rejected a policy of aid that had been pursued since 1945. It is that feeling among the American people which is now demanding an absolute withdrawal from Vietnam. 
Where then did we come in? We came in once again in 1965 because we felt that the only way for Australia to survive in the world was to make increasingly large displays of subservience to the United States. We have no understanding of the world in which we live. We have no understanding of our region of the world. The only way in which Australia has been able to understand its world has been in terms of military means. We have inevitably and invariably subordinated diplomacy to defence. So when we speak about the situation in Vietnam we can think only in terms of what we can do with soldiers. Likewise, we can think only in terms of defence when we speak about Malaysia and Singapore. That is the Government's mentality and attitude. If we look at what the Government has been doing and what Government spokesmen have been saying we see revealed beneath it all the humbug and hypocrisy of the Government's policy. For example, we are now supposedly in a position where Vietnamisation has been so successful that we can withdraw from Vietnam. On the other hand, it obviously has been such a failure that only a few weeks ago large numbers of young Australians were killed in Vietnam. It obviously has been such a failure that Australians are now being forced by this Government to remain in Vietnam to train Vietnamese military forces. 
Let us look to see what military methods have achieved in Cambodia. That war has dragged on for 18 months and all that it has succeeded in doing has been to get big and to involve greater casualties. The situation militarily has changed little. What are the risks in which we will become involved in training Cambodian troops? Let us have a look at the situation. The force that we will have in Vietnam to train Cambodians is not big enough to make a significant difference to the outcome of events in Cambodia - and it is not the Government's intention that it should do so. Once again, we are not talking about realities; we are shadow boxing with symbols. On the other hand, the force that we will have in Vietnam will be big enough to provide the basis for re-escalation, and we would have the possible situation in which, if the United States were called back into Vietnam, we would have troops on the ground there who could again commit us, as they committed us between 1962 and 1965. Those troops that we have in South Vietnam are certainly numerous enough- 
Motion (by  Mr. Giles)  put: 
That the question be now  put. 
I wish to raise some matters concerning teachers colleges in country areas in Victoria. I am concerned about the display of crude mentality which has concentrated government services in the metropolis in Victoria. In particlar, I want to call upon the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to intervene and rectify the imbalance which has occurred in the way in which Commonwealth money is being distributed to the teachers colleges in Victoria, In a nutshell my case is that almost $15m in Commonwealth money will be allocated in Victoria between 1967 and 1973. It is my belief that not one cent of that money will bc allocated to teachers colleges in country areas - in particular, the three teachers colleges at Ballarat, Geelong and Bendigo. I think that is a very serious situation indeed. I have taken it very seriously. I am very concerned about it. 
Between 1967 and 1973 a total of $14,850,000 in Commonwealth money will be allocated for capital expenditure on teachers colleges. That includes 85,350.000 for the 1967-1970 triennium and $9,500,000 for the 1970-1973 triennium. That is Victoria's share of a total allocation of $54m by the Commonwealth for teachers colleges. I have taken those figures from the pages 4 and 5 of the Senate Hansard of 6th September of the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, which is now investigating teacher education. An examination of a breakdown of the figures over the period of the 2 trienniums shows that the Commonwealth money is being misused for the concentration of services in the metropolis. I am not by any means saying that there is not a problem in the metropolis. What I am worried about is the disproportion in the distribution between the metropolis and country areas. 
Between 1967 and 1973 in Melbourne the Technical Teachers College will receive $ 1.95m; the Secondary Teachers College will receive $2.5m; Coburg 
Teachers College will receive Sim; Burwood Teachers College will receive SI. 6m; Monash Teachers College will receive $1.9m; Melbourne Teachers College will receive S2.35m and Frankston Teachers College will receive SI. 5m. There is also a contingency that Latrobe Teachers College may receive SI. 5m, but I understand that there is some uncertainty about that. An amount of $550,000 has been set aside for one of the 3 teachers colleges in Bendigo, Ballarat or Geelong. My understanding is that the plan for the provincial teachers college has been scrapped, in other words, the metropolitan teachers colleges have been allocated $14,300,000 or 96 per cent of all the Commonwealth funds while the amount set aside for the country teachers colleges, which I do not believe will be used, is only $550,000 or less than 4 per cent of all the Commonwealth funds allocated between 1967 and 1973. Yet probably 230 per cent of all primary studentship holders in Victoria are in country colleges. It is still a fact that in Victoria, despite the centralist policies of the Victorian Government, 1 in every 3 people lives outside the metropolitan area. Yet we have this tremendous imbalance in the allocation of Commonwealth funds. I am strongly opposed to this because I do not believe that Commonwealth money should be used for the over-concentration of services in the metropolitan areas; I believe that it should be used with the distinct objective of building up country centres. 
lt is, but it is not practiced. What will be the effects on the 3 country colleges in Victoria to which I have referred? If we consider the Bendigo Teachers College we will be aware of the effect that lack of Commonwealth money will have on overcrowding. That college was established towards the end of the 1950s to cater for a student population of 300. This year it has 430 students, next year it is likely to have about 540 students, and according to a report in the local Bendigo 'Advertiser' the Victorian Minister for Education indicated recently that ultimately the objective is a population of 1,600 or more students. Obviously while either Commonwealth Government or State Government money is not being spent for this purpose the Bendigo Teachers College will suffer some very serious overcrowding. But there is more involved than this. 
The problem affecting the 3 country colleges is that science and library facilities at present are little better than those in the average government high school, and indeed they are inferior to those in some private schools which have benefited from the largesse of this Government. In place of lecture rooms these colleges are still relying principally on classrooms. Members of the staff are crowded into an already overcrowded working space, and buildings are rambling single storey bungalows. Obviously the premises were designed for short term use, as is the custom so often in Victoria. About all that the Victorian Government can offer at present is the threat that some temporary accommodation will be brought into use at Bendigo to cater for the increase in the student population. 
What we have is a situation where the teachers colleges are expected in the eyes of the community and the Education Department to be more and more tertiary institutions, yet their facilities do not meet the requirements of those institutions. What this will mean in the long run will be even more serious because when the teachers colleges in Victoria finally break away from the Education Department and are given some measure of autonomy, which is inevitable ultimately, they will be in the position where they are not only competing, one with the other, but also with colleges of advanced education and universities. 
That may be, but at present one does not know. The staff and the students will be attracted to those colleges and institutions which have the best facilities. It is obvious that unless this imbalance is rectified the teachers colleges in the country areas of Victoria will be in a second best position by comparison with other tertiary institutions in Victoria. Obviously people who have the qualifications to lecture at tertiary institutions, whether they are colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges or universities, will be attracted to those institutions where they have the best facilities for professional satisfaction. Those conditions will not br provided in country teachers colleges unless the Commonwealth Government intervenes and sends the Victorian Minister for Education or the Victorian Premier back to the planning room and back to the drawing board with a direction to produce a blueprint for teachers college education in Victoria which will eliminate this blatant discrimination against country areas. But of course there is more to it than just that. There is more to it than the educational effect this situation has on students in provincial areas. The teachers college is a fundamental government service. It is essential that those government services provided in provincial areas should be at least equal to those provided in metropolitan areas. A variety of reasons has been given for what I believe to be discrimination against provincial teachers colleges. One is that the Fourth University Committee has not yet reported in Victoria. However, this to me is a specious argument. If the Fourth University Committee is to report in a way that will affect teachers colleges this will affect metropolitan teachers colleges too. They have had plans for very substantial increases in their buildings and facilities. 
The peculiar thing is that the only colleges apparently to be affected by this unknown university report are the country colleges. Furthermore, the discrimination is not something new. It is something that has applied in the 1967-70 triennium as well. In the case of Bendigo there is also the question of the adequacy of the size of the college grounds at Bendigo Teachers College. I believe that these are quite adequate. They are certainly more adequate than the grounds at teachers colleges which are receiving substantial Commonwealth money. Finally I repeat that I believe this to be a blatant case of discrimination against provincial teachers colleges. I call for Government action to rectify this imbalance. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned all 2.21 a.m. (Thursday) 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Are education officers employed at the Australian High Commission in London.  (7)  If so, have they been given the task of specifically observing, studying and reporting on the development of England's open university. 
If not, will he take steps to ensure that this 1n.sk is given to the appropriate staff at the High Commission. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister break down by (a) numbers and (b) percentages the countries of origin of the 26,893 and 25,691 migrants shown in his answer to question No. 2550 (Hansard, 16th September 1971, page 1497) as being enrolled in medical and hospital insurance organisations, respectively, under the terms of the subsidised Health Insurance Scheme. 
Earlier today we had a number of discussions on the foreign policy aspects of defence policy in Australia. I should like to pursue this issue a little further. Later I shall refer to the position of the Citizen Military Forces in Australia and comment on some of the ways in which the Government's defence force policy is affecting people in my electorate. It is high time Australia evolved a foreign policy which placed its first consideration not so much on the defence interests of Australia but on getting on well with our neighbours. Unfortunately for 20 years the Government has been obsessed with the primacy of defence policy in its foreign policy. Indeed, defence policy has been raised to the level of the absolute goal in foreign policy. So in fact we do not talk about our relations with our neighbours; we talk about our relations with allies. 
We do not talk about trade and diplomacy. The Government talks invariably in terms of the American alliance. Since the early 1950s all of our foreign policy objectives have been subordinated to satisfying what we believe to be the interests of the United States. Regrettably the conservative government which has ruled this country for 2 decades has adopted lock, stock and barrel the presumptions and prejudices of American foreign policy as laid down by John Foster Dulles in the 1950s. With that identity of ideology and outlook upon the world, we have adopted similar objectives. Consequently we have not only followed the United States into some of its gravest errors in South East Asian and foreign policy; we have actually egged it on, and in doing so we have done damage to the objective that originally was pursued. In the case of the Indo-China and Vietnam war we have followed a policy which has frustrated its own objective. That objective, of course, was to keep the United States involved in South East Asia. 
The Government's foreign policy today is in ruins. The United States is withdrawing from South East Asia; it is withdrawing from Indo-China. The United Kingdom is withdrawing from the MalaysiaSingapore area. The policy of the United States towards China is changing. On all these counts the Australian Government is still thinking and acting as though it were living in the congenial myths of the 1950s and 1960s, but Australia has now reached a stage where we must start to think for ourselves. We should be quite ruthless in working out what are Australia's interests in our relation with our neighbours. Those interests are not always the interests of the United States. The United States is a global power. She has innumerably treaty relationships with other countries. Australia is a local power in South East Asia. We have to live with our neighbours. We are not distant from them. The best way that we can live with our neighbours is not in an atmosphere of the synthetic fear which is being continually whipped up by this Government but in an atmosphere of positive and deliberate understanding with our neighbours. 
At the present moment the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has just left the United States, and in the United Kingdom he has been doing some campaigning for the next, election. He has aimed to tell the Australian people that ANZUS and the American alliance still mean something, and undoubtedly when he returns he will again tell the people of Australia, as he has told them for the last 20 years, that the ANZUS relationship is as strong, as valid and as vital as ever and that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to the American alliance. ANZUS is not as strong, as vital and as valid as it ever was. One very interesting point is that in the 2 major statements on foreign policy made by  President  Nixon, that is the statements of February 1970 and February 1971, no mention was made of ANZUS. As the former Prime Minister himself is quoted in the paper today as saying, those understandings and assurances which the Prime Minister has been given in the United States about ANZUS are no different from those that other Prime Ministers -  Mr Gorton, Mr Harold  Holt and  Sir Robert  Menzies - had been given before. The situation is just as indefinite as it ever was. 
Australia must recognise that in dealing with a great power she is bound to be frustrated. Of course it might be said that that is part of the normal price that may be paid for an alliance, but I do not believe that Australia's objectives will always be the same as those of the United States. Luckily, on the other hand, American policy is now developing in such a way that I think it is becoming more and more acceptable, certainly to supporters of the Australian Labor Party. We have the almost incomprehensible position where recently a representative of the Australian Government in the United States virtually chided the American Government because of the liberal policy it was pursuing on the question of China, and he was virtually telling the United States Government that American policy on China must change if the United States wanted the Liberal Party to be preserved in power in Australia. That is the extent of the gulf that has developed between the United States and this Government. Again I say American foreign policy these days is directed towards greater flexibility, greater understanding and greater ability to make concessions. We on this side of the chamber strongly support and welcome this tendency in American foreign policy. It is encouraging to see . that the United States has now developed to a stage where it is negotiating through the person of the  President  himself with the Government of China, because this can only do good for South East Asia, our part of the world. It can only be to the good of our future if the two major powers which have been so antagonistic for two decades can live in a way in which it is possible for them to make concessions. 
In view of the comments I have been making it is clear that the policy of forward defence we have been pursuing is now archaic and should be abolished entirely. We have deceived ourselves, and regrettably the Government has deceived many Australians into believing that by having a battalion of troops in the MalaysiaSingapore area we are actually defending Australia; that up there there is a hole and that unless we shove our finger in it those Asians will come pooring down. Regrettably I have heard this sort of view expressed many times. But this is a deception; it is a fraud. Not only will it not benefit Australia by keeping troops in Malaysia-Singapore; it can actually do us harm because of the dangers it can get us into. As one member on the Government side said today, unless we ourselves very quickly get around to withdrawing our troops from that area very soon we could be faced with a position where we are asked to do so. 
I want to speak very briefly about the position of the Citizen Military Forces. I am particularly concerned at the deterioration in the strength and also to some extent, I believe, in the morale of the Citizen Military Forces. As one who believes in having a strong defence force and who also believes very strongly in the voluntary principle in defence, I am very impressed by the Citizen Military Forces. 1 personally would like to see far stronger citizen military forces than we have had so far. Reluctantly, however, I Have to admit that the strength of the CMF is declining. In 1968 the Citizen Military Forces consisted of 35,762 men. By 1971 this number had dropped to 29,364, a drop of 6,000 from 1968. That is a very serious matter. I think this drop perhaps can be put down partly to the fact that the Government has been shadow boxing with defence. It has been obsessed with the idea of forward defence. If we spend all our time organising and equipping our army for the defence of South East Asia and if we pursue that mirage, we will be put in a position where the domestic forces within Australia will be downgraded. Unfortunately that is the attitude that has led to this decline in the Citizen Military Forces. I personally am very impressed by the work that the CMF is doing. I am therefore concerned that the CMF is in many senses under-equipped, that some units are under strength and that there is such a high turnover rate of staff. I would urge the Government to look at this matter very closely. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Has his attention been drawn to reports that 5 South East Asian nations now support the call for neutralisation of South East Asia? Is it not in Australia's interest to support this move which provides for the exclusion of major power interference in our region and for non-intervention in each country's affairs? Does not the call for neutralisation of our region represent a rational response by these nations to the new situation created by the withdrawal of the United States of America from the region and by the re-emergence of China as an active, major power in world diplomacy? Finally, in the interests of regional co-operation and security, will Australia associate itself with the aspirations of its neighbours and allies in the region? 
I propose to refer briefly to the teaching cf physical education in Victoria, in particular to the status of the Department of Physical Education at the University of Melbourne. This Department has faced continuing uncertainty since 1966. Those who administer the Department have virtually had the gun at their heads for 5 years because of uncertainty surrounding their future. I shall refer briefly to the importance of physical education and mention how it is provided in Victoria at present. Physical education is not merely the training of students for sport and, in particular, competitive sport, about which I have many reservations; it is not merely the provision of physical training. It must be seen as part of a total outlook on physical health. I believe that physical education is most important for young Australians. 
The state of health of Australians was revealed recently when we were informed that about  49  per cent of those who registered for national service in Australia were rejected because they could not pass the medical tests. This must be regarded as being a very serious situation. 
It is clear that within the schools physical education is not regarded as being an essential part of education. Clearly it does not share an equal status with academic subjects. I believe that it should do so. I propose to refer to a report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education in South Australia in  1969-70  entitled 'Education in South Australia'. The  Chairman  of that committee of inquiry, Professor Karmel, is also the  Chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission, to which I shall refer later. At pages  234  and  235  the Committee, when referring to physical education in South Australia, said: 
The purpose ot physical education in the schools is seen as extending beyond the development and maintenance of physical fitness in pupils to building attitudes and providing experience in a range of activities which will have continuing relevance throughout life and which are especially important in industrial societies. 
A little later the report states: 
In general, physical education in primary schools is taken by class teachers, and its frequency and quality depend on their resourcefulness, knowledge and enthusiasm. 
It goes on to state: 
We endorse the acceptance of physical education as an essential part of the curriculum with a status in no way different from that of the academic subjects ... If physical education is a subject of equal status with other subjects, the provision of interior gymnasia and of the necessary equipment will have to be given higher priority. 
The Committee was saying that physical education should be regarded as being  i  subject of high status and that appropriate facilities should be provided for it and, in particular, that sufficient staff should be provided. I understand that in Victoria the State secondary school system alone could absorb  800  physical education teachers tomorrow, if we were able to train them overnight. We would be able to use as many as that, so great is the shortage of physical education teachers in the State secondary education system alone. That figure does not take into account the primary schools where the shortage of physical education teachers is even greater. 
At the present moment, Melbourne University is in reality the only institution providing for the training of physical education teachers. There is the Monash Teachers College which was established only this year. The Physical Education Department of Melbourne University has a total enrolment this year of  160  to  170  teachers. It takes on  75  new teachers each year. But this is only approximately  10  per cent of the  700  applicants who have applied for positions in this course over the last few years. So we can see the demand for positions. A large number of people who are trying to get into a physical education course are being rejected. 
This department at Melbourne University also has very extensive facilities. Indeed, no institution in Victoria can compete with the facilities that the Physical Education Department at Melbourne University has. To provide these facilities in some other institution would cost Sim or more. However, the cost of training between  160  and  170  physical education trainees at Melbourne University is only approximately  $100,000.  So, what we are talking about is a small amount of money by comparison with the millions of dollars that it costs to run the entire Melbourne University complex. The problem facing the Physical Education Department is the general shortage of tertiary funds which . is affecting the whole field of tertiary education in Victoria. In particular it is related to the recommendations of the Australian Universities Commission. 
The recommendations of the Commission in  1966  have placed a continuing threat over the Physical Education Department for, in that year, the Commission recommended that sub-degree courses in universities throughout Australia should be transferred to other institutions. It suggested also that funds would cease to be provided by the Commission after the  1967-69  triennium for such sub-degree courses. Accordingly, a great deal of debate has taken place in Melbourne University and a number of people - I suppose that we could call them traditional academics - have argued that there is no place in the Melbourne University for the Physical Education Department and that its continued existence is a drain on the financial resources of that university. 
However, moves to abolish the Diploma of Physical Education course at Melbourne University have been frustrated for the time being. In September 1970, following moves to abolish that diploma course, it was decided, under pressure, that the diploma course should continue into the 1970-72 triennium. People were then led to believe that if the diploma course were abolished a physical education degree course would be instituted. Unfortunately, the uncertainty still continues. It is clear now that 1972 will be the last year of the 2 year Diploma of Education course. What causes most concern is that a committee set up to plan an alternative course has been given also in its terms of reference the task of considering the desirability of an alternative. Not only is it considering what the alternative should be but also whether there should be an alternative. This might mean not only the elimination of the diploma course in Physical Education at this Department but also the elimination of any physical education training whatever at this institution. 
I believe that the basic problem is finance and the uncertainty of finance in particular. It is for these reasons that the Aus tralian Universities Commission should make a clear statement to Melbourne University indicating that it recognises the need for physical education, that it recognises that Melbourne University already has substantial physical education facilities that would be costly to duplicate elsewhere, that it recognises that even if this course were transferred to a college of advanced education the same source - that is the Commonwealth and State governments - would be financing it, and that it recognises that there is a shortage of teachers and that there is a demand for teachers. It should accordingly make a clear statement that it appreciates the value of the course being provided and that if a degree course in physical education were provided at Melbourne University the Australian Universities Commission would be prepared to make finance available for that course. I can see no point in closing this course at the Melbourne University. I suggest that, in the interests of physical education in Victoria, the Australian Universities Commission clarify the situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1.36 a.m. (Friday) 
lt is very regrettable to hear the sort of speech that was made by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  It is part of the patter of falling dominoes that always seem to start collapsing when the Government is in its greatest panic - usually towards election time. So Australia's defences have just collapsed because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has come back, his Party is in disarray and an election is in the offing. But the honourable member for Isaacs and other speakers on the other side tonight cannot conceal the fact that virtually nothing was achieved by the Prime Minister overseas. He received no assurances of any definite character on anything. Much of what he said was a rehash of the cliches and the dogmas of the Liberal Party of the past. Most of what he learned overseas could have been just as gainfully obtained by a telephone call to  President  Nixon, by a telephone call to the Prime Minister of England or by a few letters. There was very little gained. 
Indeed, the Prime Minister has had to back-pedal somewhat on one of the issues which, hopefully, the Liberal Party was aiming to make the major election issue - the ever-growing 'menace' of the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. Even worse is what it reveals about the mentality of the Liberal Party at this stage of the nation's history. What it reveals is that at a time when some great powers are leaving the area and at a time when our regional neighbours are calling for them to go and welcoming their departure, Australia is still acting like a child at pre-school calling for its mother to come back. Some noise has been made about the reaffirmation in the United States 0f America of the ANZUS Treaty. Exactly what was reaffirmed i not made too clear. Nevertheless we are assured that there was a reaffirmation of the ANZUS Treaty. One might ask. however, in the face of such an importunate visitor as the Prime Minister of Australia, in the face of such toadying by the Australian Prime Minister, what else  President  Nixon could have done except to say: 'Yes. We promise that the situation is as sweet between our Government and yours as it ever was.' 
Indeed, had the Yugoslav representative been in the United States at the same time similar assurances of the everlasting friendship between the American people and the Yugoslav people would have been given too. But most important of all is one of the questions which concerns the whole of Australia's forward defence policy in Malaysia and Singapore. Did the Prime Minister ask the United States  President  for any guarantees that the United States alliance would cover Australia in the event of our being involved in a conflict in the Malaysia-Singapore area? If so, what was the answer given by the President? My suspicions are that, judging by the silence of the Prime Minister, the question was not even raised, let alone answered. Yet according to the honourable member for Isaacs, forward defence is one of the cardinal principles of Australia's policy. It is a dangerous policy if we do not have this sort of backing. 
There was no mention, we noticed, of the SEATO alliance. This must be one of the first times in history that an Australian Prime Minister has not received some sort of consolatory reassurances that this alliance actually means something to the United States. It is clear that this alliance does not mean anything to the United States and does not mean anything to the people of the region, let alone to those nations which are members of the SEATO alliance. What is even more tragic at the present moment is the failure of SEATO to act as a means of protecting and increasing democracy in this area. Here we have an alliance which is nominally aimed at protecting democracy and freedom in South East Asia yet virtually its only Asian supporter, Thailand, now has a government which has conducted a coup d'etat which has destroyed democracy in Thailand. Of course there was no statement on that subject from the Government. 1 dare say that, as usual, this sort of attack upon parliamentary democracy, even though 1 concede that that was only in its beginnings in Thailand - nevertheless it was a start - will not cause any official Australian Government protest against the situation in Thailand. 1 was there in January. I visited the chamber of the Thai Parliament. I am sure that in many ways the Thai Parliament could not possibly have the sort of power that we expect parliamentary democracies in the West to have. Nevertheless it was supposed to be the beginnings of democracy. 
One wonders now, if this SEATO alliance is aimed at protecting Thailand, what exactly is it aimed at protecting, apart from the financial and political interests of that minority who have seized power formally. What is equally distressing about the Prime Minister's statement tonight is the reversion once again to the grand old cliches about revolutionary China which were used in the 1950s and the 1960s. At a time when Austraia's trading opportunities are being severed by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, at a time when we should be seeking further opportunities for trade, at a time in particular when we should be seeking dialogue with China particularly in preparation for any possibility of a high level conference over the Indo-China situation - at a time such as this the Australian Government is returning to the talk of revolutionary China. We heard the Prime Minister say tonight that the Government is seeking dialogue but is doing it cautiously. 1 regard this attitude as a luxury that this nation cannot afford to continue. 
The Government, because of its politically motivated attitudes towards the People's Republic of China, has lost this nation over $900m worth of wheat trade. We have been selling wheat to China to this value over the last decade. We have sold about 743 million bushels of wheat. That is not to mention the other areas in which it is possible for this nation to increase its trade with China. One wonders whose interests we are serving. For example, at the beginning of the 197.1-72 financial year the United States wheat farmers had a surplus of 19 million metric tons of wheat. One can rest assured that, as the newspapers have already reported, wheat farmers in America are becoming a powerful lobby whose aim is to make the sale of substantial quantities of wheat to China the first means of improving relationships between the People's Republic of China and the United States. If that happens, the opportunity of Australia regaining its lost trade will be even less. 
In my view it is nonsensical for the Australian Government to continue with this highly dogmatic and ideological approach Which is also determined by fear of that minority in the Democratic Labor Party which dominates the foreign policy of this Government, lt is a luxury that this nation can no longer afford and it is time that Australia recognised that our interests, both diplomatically and economically, are best served by recognising the People's Republic of China. Also mentioned tonight was the growing 'Russian presence' in the Indian Ocean. I cannot spend a great deal of time on this but suffice to say that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  in particular has resorted to what I believe are the most dishonest tactics. I am sure- 
About tactics? 
I withdraw that adjective and suggest that the Minister for the Navy is resorting to the most dubious tactics in the figures that he is using in reference to the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean. The figures he has used and tried to reiterate today are that there are 20 Russian naval ships in the Indian Ocean. He obviously is trying to whip up a campaign of fear on which the Liberal Party may hope, discredited, discarded and disintegrating as it is, to regain some of its collapsing fortunes. What are the facts about the Russian presence? I would like to quote just a few. I am sure the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is a great Red baiter and who is relying heavily on Democratic Labor Party votes at the next election, will flog this issue when he rises to speak tonight. I point out to listeners and to people in the chamber beforehand what sort of bogeyman is being synthetically created here. In the 'Australian' of 9th November there is an article referring to Vice-Admiral R. I. Peek, the Chief of &gt;he Naval Staff in Australia, who had just returned from a naval conference attended by representatives of 43 maritime nations. The headline states: Sea threat scorned'. The sub-headline reads: 'Soviet "no danger in Indian Ocean" '. The article slates: 
There is nothing ominous about the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean, the Chief of Naval Staff. Vice-Admiral R. T. Peek, said yesterday. 
He was speaking al  Sydney  Airport on his return from the second International Seapower Symposium at Newport, Rhode Island. 
So there we have one statement. The article continues: 
The conclusion was accepted-  he was referring to, the conference -  that the Russians are in the Indian Ocean in the classic exercise of seapower - to show a presence, make an economic impact on the area and get a foot in the door,' he said. 
There is nothing ominous. They are just catching up with what we have been doing for years.' 
I am not welcoming the Russians there by any means. I would rather they were not there and I would certainly prefer that all foreign powers were absent from the area, but the point is to keep the situation in perspective. We also have statements that can be quoted from officials of the Department of Defence and the Department of 
State in the United States on the size of the Russian presence. For example, we have a  Mr Spiers,  the Director of the Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs in the Department of State making a statement in July 1971 at a hearing before the SubCommittee on National Security Policy and Scientific Development. This is a subcommittee of the American House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee. He said: 
We have some figures of the most recent Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean and as of now it consists of about 4 ships. As of July 20th- 
I point out he was speaking on 21st July-  the Soviet presence consists of one destroyer, one  LST  and 2 fleet minesweepers. The Soviet presence fluctuates but that is the most recent reading unless my. Defence colleagues have something more up to date. 
A  Mr Pranger,  a colleague of  Mr Spiers,  concurred in this estimate and address: 
Previous deployments had featured guided missile ships which this latest deployment does not feature. 
Admiral Elmo Zumwalt Jnr, the United States Chief of Naval Operations, gave testimony to the Sub-Committee of the Committee on Appropriations in the United States House of Representatives on 15th March 1971. He said that the average presence was 3 to 4 ships and that they had no base rights. So here we have a presence of some 3 or 4 ships in the area. This is what the Minister for the Navy is trying to inflate into a monstrous and massive presence which endangers this nation. Obviously the United States has not bought into the sort of campaign the Government is trying to whip up.  Mr Laird  has made some very cautious statements about the subject of the Russian presence and has no intention of committing his Government to a dangerous and very damaging arms race in this area. In particular we look at the British position. The British Government has rejected the sort of attitudes expressed by the Australian Prime Minister. I refer to the 'Australian' of I1th November this year. The headline reads: 'McMahon snubbed on Indian Ocean aid'. The Prime Minister went overseas because he wanted an election issue. He wanted a Russian scare.  Mr Heath  was not buying it. There will be no increase. no intensification, of the forces already used by the British Government in this area. The article states: 
Britain is distinctly coot towards anything more than a token naval presence in the Indian Ocean. 
What bothers me most of all is the fact that our attitude is so contrary to the attitudes of those nations in our own region - about 30 of them - which are now calling for the neutralisation of the whole area. They see their danger not from the Russian presence so much as in an escalation of forces and the danger of confrontation. I believe those attitudes that have been expressed by the Ceylon Government, the Indian Government, the Pakistani Government - and also expressed this month again by the 5 ASEAN nations - Malaysia. Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
When were the officers' living quarters established at the Armoured Centre in Puckapunyal. 
How many officers are accommodated in these quarters. 
When will these quarters be demolished and replaced with modern accommodation. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
When was the entire complex at the Armoured Centre in Puckapunyal established. 
When were plans for new accommodation and facilities for the Armoured Centre drawn up, and what do these plans include. 
What is the estimated cost of implementing these plans. 
When is it intended to commence construction of these buildings and facilities. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth or Territory legislation or rule limits the proportion of a pension that a nursing home may charge a pensioner patient and what limit does it impose. 
If this type of provision does not exist, will he give consideration lo introducing legislation to ensure that pensioners in nursing homes are able to retain a reasonable proportion of their pensions for personal use. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the Bendigo Citizens for Pakistani Refugee Relief Appeal respectfully showeth: 
That the petitioners are deeply concerned at the plight of the Pakistani refugees and with what is considered a lack of Government response in its aid giving programmes to relieve the situation in West Bengal. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
The Federal Government will increase its aid to the Pakistani refugees to Ten Million Dollars. 
The Federal Government will gram income tax deductibility for donations to overseas aid organisations. 
The Federal Government will endeavour by diplomatic initiatives to seek a just and humane solution to the problem of the refugees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What measures are taken to ensure that Aboriginals who are eligible for the subsidised health insurance scheme are (a) informed of their eligibility and (b) enrolled in a medical benefits fund. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Can he break down by (a) numbers and (b) percentages, the countries of origin of those people included in the figure of 107,816 .given in answer to question No. 2550 (Hansard, 16th September 1971, page 1496) showing the number of migrant arrivals in 1970. 
I am afraid I cannot share the optimism of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I am particularly concerned about the way in which the colleges of advanced education in Australia are being financed, especially the ones in Victoria. The method of financing them is retarding the growth of colleges of advanced education and also limiting the opportunities of young people to obtain a course of advanced education. I want to refer briefly to the Commonwealth and State grants which are to be made in the present triennium and look ahead to what may happen in the next triennium when, I believe, there will be very savage cuts in the estimates of the Victorian colleges, which will have a very serious effect on advanced education in that State. 
I believe that advanced education is being very seriously retarded in Victoria in particular. I will specify in a few minutes time why I believe that. However, it is essential first of all to look at what has been provided for in the present triennium, which is for the years 1970 to 1972. The colleges of advanced education in Victoria themselves set a figure of $132m, which consisted of capital requirements of $5 8m and recurrent requirements of $74m. The total sum of $82m was allocated to the colleges in Victoria for this triennium, which is now in its second year. There was in fact a cut of $50m in the requirements of the Victorian colleges. The capital estimates of $5 8m were slashed by 50 per cent. The colleges were granted only $30m for this 3-year period. The recurrent requirements estimate of $74m were slashed by about 30 per cent, and the colleges were given $52m, which was $22m less than what was required. What has in fact taken place is a very severe slashing of the amounts of money required by the Victorian colleges for the present triennium. 
One can take the traditional Government view on this matter and say 'Well, it is all  Sir Henry  Bolte's fault. It is a State matter', and reject completely all Commonwealth responsibility. But in doing so one is, of course, ignoring the moral responsibility that the Commonwealth Government has towards advanced education, as has been expressed, for example, by the fact that it established the Martin Committee on tertiary education and the Advisory Committee on Advanced Education and sought the Wiltshire report on academic awards and the Sweeney report on lecturers' salaries. So it has a commitment. Guidelines have been laid down for the colleges of advanced education in Victoria to show in which way they should progress, but, unfortunately, the archaic sharing of financial responsibility between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government is not enabling those guidelines to be pursued effectively by the colleges in Victoria. I wish to quote what  Sir Henry  Bolte said last year when the question was raised in the Victorian Parliament about the $22m that his Government had, in co-operation with the Commonwealth Government, slashed off the recurrent requirements estimate of $74.2m.  Sir Henry  Bolte's statement, which was an ominous one, was: 
As far as this so-called cut is concerned, as claimed by  Dr Law  - 
The Vice-President of the Victorian Institute of Colleges -  this was the estimate that they put in, which was an exaggerated amount which would have given over 100 per cent increase. 
I am quoting from the 'Age' of 19th November 1970. What  Sir Henry  Bolte was saying there was that it was absolutely ridiculous for the Victorian colleges to expect to be given in the present 3-year period twice the amount that had been given to them in the previous 3-year period. He said that that was totally unrealistic and that he was not going to buy it. Of course, in saying that, he was ignoring the fact that the demand for advanced education in Victoria was growing very rapidly and that there was a need in Victoria for students with advanced education qualifications.  Sir Henry  Bolte simply wiped his hands of his responsibilities. That is the background to the points which I will raise later.  Sir Henry  Bolte has made it clear that he is opposed to making any substantial increase in the amount of money required by the Victorian colleges. 
What sort of effect have the cuts in the present 3-year period had on colleges in Victoria? One of the most worrying things about the cuts is that they have resulted in a limitation being placed on the number of students being admitted to colleges of advanced education. For some years now we have acclimatised ourselves to this epidemic of rationing of education in universities. It is affecting teachers colleges now. It has started in the colleges of advanced education for one principal reason - the limitation of funds in the present 3- year period. At the present time in Victoria there are 8 colleges and institutes in which quotas are levied on some courses. For example, last year the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology rejected 76 students who wanted to undertake the course to obtain a diploma in applied chemistry. This year it rejected 147 students for this course. This represented about 50 per cent of the students who were eligible to take the course. For the course of civil engineering, last year 29 students were rejected and this year 112 were rejected, or 48.5 per cent of the eligible students. For the course to obtain a diploma of art, this year 295 students were rejected, or 45 per cent of the eligible students. For the accountancy course, this year 522 students were rejected, or 54 per cent of all eligible students. At the Swinburne Institute of Technology 600 eligible students who wanted to undertake a part time course in general studies were rejected, and this represented 82 per cent of all students who applied. For the fulltime course in general studies, 184 students were rejected, or 55 per cent of all eligible students. In another college 10 students who wanted to take a course to obtain a diploma in occupational therapy were rejected. This represented 53 per cent of all eligible students. 
-As the honourable member for Capricornia points out, this is an area in which we need more graduates. 
This is what is happening. The rationing of tertiary education in the advanced education field is developing at a disturbing pace. This financial stringency is affecting colleges at every level. These institutes are multi-million dollar investments, but from day to day they are living from hand to mouth, never knowing where the next few thousand dollars are coming from. This is how finely balanced their budgets are. As regards staffing, Victoria in particular has the highest figure of all States in its proportion of junior to senior staff. There are also differences between the salary levels of the top ranks in the colleges and in comparable positions in universities. So we have this sort of discrimination being built into the colleges and institutes. 
In many cases classes are still too large, buildings are still out of date and equipment is grossly inadequate. Many of the technical school origins of the institutes are still visible. I am not saying that these can be eliminated overnight by any means, but the point is that the development is not proceeding rapidly enough, in particular if we are genuine in our desire to see colleges provide education that is 'different from but equal to' that provided by universities. This development will mean more spending and more investment in advanced education than we have been prepared to provide so far. As regards capital development - and I pointed this out 2 years ago when we were discussing another advanced education Bill - we see in many cases in colleges of advanced education that libraries, including buildings, equipment and books stocks, and also the number of qualified librarians provided, are not comparable with those provided in universities. So this is the picture of what has emerged in the present triennium during which we have had savage cuts in colleges' incomes. 
Additionally, what is even more worrying throughout the country is the steady increase in fees. In 1970 fees rose in some institutes in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Now, in 1971, it is reported that in New South Wales fees in universities and colleges of advanced education could rise next year by up to 16 per cent. One thing I want to refer to again in particular is the fact that in Victoria, for a number of years, having departed from free tertiary technical education, the Government kept to a static fee of $80 a year for tuition. That has been raised by 25 per cent for next year. That is a milestone on the path towards making advanced education as exclusive and as prohibitive as university education already is for many children of lower income families and particularly students in country areas. I do not want to go any further on this matter at the moment. I merely want to point out that this is the trend being established already. This is what is happening in Victoria. Because of the fee increases parents and students are being forced to make up the necessary finance for advanced education in those areas where the Commonwealth Government and the State Government are refusing to meet their responsibilities. 
Within my electorate the effect of what I have been talking about can be seen at the Bendigo Institute of Technology, an institute of which everybody in my city is particularly proud. Everybody, myself included, is particularly enthusiastic to see this college increase in its standing in the community and increase in its standing among people involved in tertiary education and among those who would employ its diplomates and future graduates. But the college already is concerned about next year. The increasing rate of demand for positions by students in the college may be such that next year, reluctantly, it will be forced to introduce quotas. Nobody in the college wants to do that - nobody. The principal does not want to do it, the staff do not want it and the college council does not want to do it, but there is a reality to be faced. The reputation of the college is exceptionally high. Students are finding difficulty in getting into Melbourne colleges. They are being turned away from the metropolitan universities and want to go to this college, but there is a danger that they will be quotaed out. 
In another area, the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology already has been forced into the degrading position of having to beg from the community in order to put up additional buildings. I think it required Sim. It is a staggering reflection on Government priorities that an institution of this magnitude and of this value has to go round begging in the community for money to put up its essential buildings and facilities. 
I refer now to the coming triennium. I want to reiterate that the problems facing colleges in the next triennium, from 1973 to 1975, will be faced effectively only if there is full Commonwealth responsibility for advanced education. Earlier the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  spoke about the financing of university education. 1 do not go along with the abhorrence of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of centralism in this field. What is happening at the moment is that, in effect, there is centralism, a uniformity, about advanced education throughout Australia. The uniformity is represented by the growing level of quotas, the increasing fees and the increasing inadequacy of the facilities. So there is a uniformity. 
It is clear that the State governments no longer can meet this task. I do not believe it is any answer to raise the bogy of centralism when there is an objective to be met by this Commonwealth Government, that is, to provide effectively for at least one level of education in this country. The Commonwealth Government must accept full responsibility for all levels of tertiary education, particularly advanced education. The colleges have already worked out how much they will need in the 1973-75 triennium. The total sum that is required by all the colleges in Victoria for the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 is over $300m, or to be specific $305m. This is more than twice the amount that was sought for the present triennium 1970-72 and it is almost 4 times the amount that was granted to the Victorian colleges during that period. I believe that it is virtually inevitable that the Victorian Government will slash these figures very savagely. On the basis of what the Victorian Government has done in the past and on what  Sir Henry  Bolte has said in relation to the estimates of the present triennium I have every reason to believe that the Victorian colleges will receive only $180m in the next triennium. This means that the estimates of the colleges, which I believe our conservative and responsible estimates, will be cut toy about $120m. That is the situation as I see it. 
Unless the Commonwealth Government is prepared at the very minimum to work out a new means of sharing financial responsibility in this field with the State Government of Victoria, and at best to accept full financial responsibility, the Victorian colleges will receive not the $305m they require but about SI 80m. To break this figure down, what the colleges have sought in capital estimates is approximately $137m. On the basis of what the Victorian Government with the support of this Government has done in the past, the colleges might get about $68.5m after a 50 per cent cut. The recurrent estimates are for a total of Sl68.78m. The colleges may get $112m on the basis of a 30 per cent cut which was applied for the present triennium. What effects will these cuts have? Again, we will see an escalation in the quotas. At present, quotas in universities are very extensive, very widespread and very large. They have almost reached epidemic proportions in universities. At present quotas affect 8 colleges of advanced education. More colleges will have quotas applied if the sort of cut which I have just outlined is applied in Victoria. 
The alternative to applying quotas is to try to squeeze students into a limited number of buildings with limited facilities and limited staff. This is the alternative and while I think that the quota system will be chosen, there is also a danger that there will not be an improvement in the present ratio of students to staff. Honourable members will recall that the Advisory Committee on Advanced Education stressed that in colleges of advanced education there must be a very great emphasis upon the teaching side of learning. There is a danger that the staff required will not be employed and that the staff members that are provided will find that they are doing more work and are spending more time lecturing and tutoring than they should be and spending conditions for staff at colleges will be less attractive than those at universities. This again will damage the attractiveness of colleges by comparison with universities. It will also be difficult for colleges to increase the number and variety of courses being offered. 
In general it is safe to say that the progress of the colleges towards being degree granting institutions - towards being genuine tertiary institutions - will be hampered unless the money that has been sought is provided. I believe there will be a continuing escalation of fees, as the Victorian Minister for Education has pointed out, until these reach the levels applying in some universities and until such times as they, coupled with quotas, make the colleges of advanced education no longer the institutions for working class children, which I do not believe they should be merely, anyway. They will be just as exclusive as universities are. This will be disastrous for students in country areas in particular, who are already debarred from universities by distance, quotas, exorbitant fees, limited numbers of scholarships, and inadequate living allowances. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that under the subsidised medical scheme for low income earners, the means test for the Class A category is a gross weekly income of up to $46.50, for Class B $46.51 to $49.50 and for Class C $49.51 to $52.50. 
If so, how are these incomes of applicants determined, and over what period are they calculated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the common fee accepted by the Department of Health for (a) a surgery consultation and (b) ahome visit by a general practitioner in each State and Territory. 
What amount is paid to  a  general practitioner for (a) a surgeryconsultation and (b)  a  home visit in the case of a person holding  a  pensioner medical service entitlement, and what percentage of common fees do these figures represent. 
On what date did the Commonwealth increase the reimbursement to general practitioners treating pensioners. 
What amount was reimbursed to general practitioners prior to the increase in 1971, and what percentage of common fees did this reimbursement represent in 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the hunger, malnutrition and starvation threatening Pakistani refugees, and in view of Australia's large surplus of egg products, will he consult with the Minister for Primary Industry on the possibility of making free gifts of appropriate egg products to refugees iti Bengal, over and above supplies and moneys already provided? 
 I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the Bendigo citizens for Pakistani Refugee Relief Appeal respectfully showeth that the petitioners are deeply concerned at the plight of the Pakistani refugees and with what is considered a lack of Government response in its aid giving programmes to relieve the situation in West Bengal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
The Federal Government will increase its aid to the Pakistani refugees to ten million dollars. 
The Federal Government willgrant income tax deductibility for donations to overseas aid organisations. 
The Federal Government will endeavour by diplomatic initiatives to seek a just and humane solution to the problem of the refugees. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
 Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his Department the name of each Government secondary school in each State and Territory. 
If not. will he obtain the information from each State and Territory Education Department. 
Will hethen provide details of the (a) number and (b) percentage of students who (i) sat for and (ii) were awarded Commonwealth Secondary scholarships in each Government secondary school in each State and Territory in (A) each year and (B) all years since the scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What methods does his Department usetokeep under surveillance the health of immigrants after their arrival in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many naval vessels were: (a) based and (b) used in (i) Western Australia, and (ii) elsewhere for surveillance of the Indian Ocean in each of the years1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
How many reconnaissance voyages were scheduled for each day of each week and what was the total number of voyages in each of these years. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Are there plans for the establishment of a recruiting office for the Army and Citizen Military Forces in Bendigo. 
If so, (a) where will the office be located, (b) how will it be staffed, (c) from whom and at what price is the accommodation to be rented and (d) when will it be opened. 
MrPeacock - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, a recruiting team has been established and, at present, is operating from the Training Depot, Mollison Street. Bendigo. 
(a) Discussions are taking place between my Department and the Department of the Interior to find a suitable location for the recruiting office. 
The Recruiting team consists of: 
One Warrant Officer Class 2 
One Sergeant 
One Corporal 
See (a) above. 
See (a) above. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many houses have been built by the Victorian Housing Commission in the PuckapunyalSeymour area. 
How many  of  these are now vacant and for how long have they been vacant in each case. 
In view  of  the waiting list for accommodation shown in his reply to question  No.  3849 (Hansard, 29th September 1971, page 1695), what action is he taking wilh the Victorian Government to ensure that these houses are brought up  to  standard so that they can be occupied. 
Can he say when updating of these houses will be (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Have any plans been made to provide a larger number of permanent married quarters in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area than exist al present. 
If so, how many have been planned, and when will they be made available. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in negotiations to acquire additional property adjacent  to  Puckapunyal. Victoria. 
 1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of thecommunity of the University of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
 That the increase in tertiary education fees for "1972 will cause increased hardship for a signifi"cant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs "are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for. 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to (hat minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships . 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
Andyour petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
 Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the Bendigo Citizens for Pakistani Refugee Relief Appeal respectfully showeth that the petitioners are deeply concerned at the plight of the Pakistani refugees and with what is considered a lack of Government response in its aid giving programmes to relieve the situation in West Bengal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
The Federal Government will increase its aid to the Pakistani refugees to Ten Million Dollars. 
The Federal Government will grant income tax deductibility for donations to overseas aid organisations. 
The Federal Government will endeavour by diplomatic initiatives to seek a just and humane solution to the problem of the refugees. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Did he stale that the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean comprised 20 surface vessels? 
If so, can he specify the types of vessels and the number of each type? 
ls he able to quote any estimate of the total Russian presence other than the unspecific estimate provided by Jane's Fighting Ships? 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr Spiers,  Director of the American Slate Department's Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, to the United . Slates House of Representatives sub-committee on National Security Policy and Scientific Development in July 1971, to the effect that as of 20th July the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean consisted of four ships comprising one destroyer, one LST and two Fleet Minesweepers? 
Has his attention also been drawn to a statement- by the United States Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Elmo Zumvalt Jnr on 15th March 1971 to a sub-committee of the United Slates House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, that since 1968 the Russian Navy has maintained an almost continuous presence in the Indian Ocean with an- average of three to four naval combatants deployed at any given time? 
If his attention nas been drawn to these statements, does ho dispute the figures provided by these American officials; if so, on what evidence? 
Can he state on what grounds he has chosen to publicise the figures given by Jane's Fighting Ships on the size of the Russian presence rather than the figures provided by these American officials? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of students who (i) sat for and (ii) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships in each State and Territory in (A) each year and (B) all years' since the scheme was introduced and who were students of those (I) Catholic and (II) other private schools whose names appeared as being in receipt of per capita grants in his recent report on the operation of the per capita grant scheme. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he say what types of fees and charges of all kinds were levied on students attending (a) pre-schools, (b) primary schools and (c) secondary schools under Government control in each State in 1970 or in the latest year for which details are available. 
Can he also say what was the level of these fees and charges, and what was the total amount raised by schools in (a) each level and (b) all 3 levels of education in each State in the same year. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to support the amendment- 
Motion (by  Mr  Giles) put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many in-patients are receiving treatment under the Repatriation Act ai Heidelberg Hospital. 
What (a) number and (t&gt;) percentage of these patients served in the (i) Boer War, (ii) First World War, (iii) Second World War, (iv) Korean War, (v) Malayan emergency, (vi) confrontation of Malaysia, (vii) Vietnam War and (viii) other wars. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: (.1) What was the value of all Commonwealth (a) secondary scholarships and (b) technical scholarships awarded in (i) each year and (ii) all years since each scheme was introduced._ 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
1 ) How many apprenticeships of each kind were (a) made available by his Department and  (b)  filled (i) throughout the Commonwealth. Of) In each State or Territory and (Hi) in the  Commonwealth  Ordnance Factory, Bendigo, in each year since I96S. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many (a) officers, (b) other ranks and (c) of all ranks have been engaged at Puckapunyal in each year from 1945 to 1971 inclusive. 
We have just been listening to the authentic voice of 19th century Australian Toryism. The greatest progress that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  could say he had seen in the 30 or 40 years he has occupied this land was the emergence of transport from the primeval stage of the horse and sulky. No doubt if he had been articulate then he would have opposed that too, most likely as being an interference with State rights. I find that sort of view taken by the honourable member incomprehensible. It is hard to believe that honourable members on the other side of the House can continue to express that sort of view. I represent an area that is partly urban and partly rural. It is a provincial electorate. I can tell the honourable members opposite - there have been only 2 who have spoken in this debate and. incidentally, there have been none from the Country Party - that for the people I represent and for most people in the countryside this is not a matter to be put oft again and again, lt is a serious human problem which is best expressed by :the simple term "heartbreak'. This is something which is often felt by families when ;they lose their children to the metropolis at the end of their school days. 
Just hold on a minute. If rhs Minister wishes to speak the Opposition will move for an extension of time for the debate and he can speak for whatever time he likes. If he will just wait he will hear some comments which may be of value to him. 
I am not being abusive. I am pointing out a few facts. The honourable member for Warringah said: We think there are things more urgent than setting up a select committee'. He rubbished the whole idea of a select committee. He said that the Opposition had moved for '.he establishment of 21 select committees, but what he did not point out was that the Government had knocked back every one of them because it does not want to educate itself on the problems of the Australian poeple or on the remedies. It has refused to accept advice from outside. It is a typical, complacent Tory government; it could not care less. The honourable member for Warringah said that a select committee is not appropriate because it is an urgent matter but be did not, of course, amend the motion the Opposition has moved. Nor did he explain why, if this problem was being treated so seriously, the Government's committee has been mee' ing with State officials for 7 years. It has met 4 times in 7 years and it still has not produced a report on decentralisation for the Australian people and the Government to study. This shows how urgent decentralisation is to honourable members opposite. There is not enough time left in this debate - only 5 minutes remain - for me to go much further. The simple point that the Opposition is making is that there is an urgent need for effective Commonwealth action on decentralisation We all have the chance by accepting this motion to inform ourselves so that we can decide what we can do about it. This is an opportunity for all Par ies to be represented, including the Country Party, whose representatives have been as silent as the grave today. They have nothing to contribute except a request that their dwindling farm vote be made even more secure against population changes in the future. There are Liberal members who represent rural areas. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  should be concerned about the economic position of the provincial city which he represents. He has nothing to say. He will not support a move in this Parliament today to set up a committee on decentralisation. The honourable member for Ballaarat should at some time, either on the adjournment or during this debate, express his views on decentralisation. 
I would not like to prick the honourable member too often either. There are many things which can be done. We are putting a very simple proposition to the House and to the Government today, lt is tha! there should be a select committee from all parties because unless we accept that there must be Commonwealth participation in decentralisation there will be no decentralisation. There will be a continuing over-centralisation of population in city regions and a continuation of stagnation in rural and provincial areas. That is a simple proposition. Does the Government support decentralisation or does it not? If it does it should do something about it and not keep up the delaying action which has now been going on for at least 7 years so far as the State and Commonwealth officials committee is concerned. Because of a shortage of time there is not much more I can say although there is a lot I would like to say. 1 am particularly concerned about this situation but I have agreed to let the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  speak briefly on the subject also. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
When was the Centurion tank first acquired for the Australian Army. 
How many have been purchased since that date. 
In which overseas theatres have they been used and when. 
How many are still fully operational. 
Where are the operational tanks located, and how many are located at each place. 
What was the average purchase price. 
What is the crew of a tank, and how many are there of each rank. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the National Health and Medical Research Council advise the Commonwealth and State Governments on matters concerning the health of the public and on all matters of public health legislation and administration. 
If so, in what instances has it given advice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (.1) On what date did the subsidised health insurance scheme for low income earners, migrants, etc., come into effect. 
What methods have been used to advertise the scheme. 
How much has been spent on advertising the scheme. 
In what ways have procedures of the scheme been simplified, as reported in the 'Age' of 12th March 1971. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of students who sat for Commonwealth- technical scholarships in - (0 each year and (ii) all years since the scheme was introduced in* the (A) Bendigo Technical College, (B) Kangaroo. Flat 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
In what year was the Citizen Military Forces unit located at Bendigo established. 
In what ways and in what years has its structure changed since its inception. 
What was the total strength of the unit in the first year and at each fifth and tenth year of each decade since its inception. 
What is the (a) establishment and (b) strength of the unit for 1971. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of its strength are (i) regular servicemen and (ii) persons who have chosen the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to National Service. 
Do plans exist for new buildings, new facilities and a new location. 
If so, when were the plans drawn up, and when will they be implemented. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Can he say what proportion of a pension is taken for care and accommodation by nursing homes run by (a) State government authorities, (b) charitable and voluntary bodies and (c) private enterprise in each State and Territory. 
Will he provide an account of charges imposed on pensioners in public nursing homes in each State and Territory for purposes other than hospital and medical care and accommodation. 
Will he direct his Department to undertake a sample survey of the income left to pensioners in private nursing homes after they have paid for care and accommodation; if so. will he publish the results of this survey. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there an increasing tide of bankruptcy in the poultry industry and is the incidence of bankruptcies growing daily. 
If so. will he ask the Prime Minister to bring personal pressure to bear on the Victorian Government to agree to industry stabilisation now so desperately needed and agreed to by all States except Victoria. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What is the (a) establishment and (b) strength of (i) each unit and (ii) each section of each unit at Puckapunyal, Victoria. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of these servicemen are (i) regular and (ii) national servicemen. 
By what (a) number and (b) percentage does the strength exceed or fall short of establishment in each case. 
asked the Minister  for  Immigration, upon notice;    (I.) From which countries did migrants come in 1970-71 and what were the numbers in each case. 
How many (a) doctors and (b) other ancillary medical staff were employed by his Department in each of these countries to screen the health of prospective immigrants. 
How many of these (a) doctors and (b) other ancillary medical staff were fluent in the language of the prospective migrants at the time of screening, 
asked the Minister for Education and Science upon notice: 
What types of fees and charges of all kinds were levied on students attending (a) pre-schools; (b) primary schools and (c) secondary schools under Commonwealth control in (i) the Australian. Capital Territory and (ii) the Northern Territory, in 1970 or in the latest year for which details are available. 
What was the level of these fees and charges, and what was the total amount raised by schools in (a) each level and (b) all three levels of education in the same year. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in (i) Government, (ii) Roman Catholic, and (iii) other private schools (A) sat for, and (B) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1971 in (I) each State and Territory and (II) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of all the candidates was from each of the 3 school systems  in  (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of the scholarships was awarded to candidates from each of the 3 school systems in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many aircraft' were (a) based and (b) used in Western Australia for surveillance of the Indian Ocean in each of the years 1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
How many reconnaissance flights were scheduled for each day of each week, and what was the number of .surveillance flights in each of these years. 
Have aircraft been based elsewhere than in Western Australia for surveillance of the Indian Ocean. 
If so, (a) where were they based, (b) how many were used for this purpose and (c) how many flights were made in each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many children of Army personnel are there of pre-school age living at (a) Puckapunyal and (b) Seymour. 
What (a) number, and (b) percentage of them are attending (0 primary school, and (ii) pre-school at (A) Puckapunyal and (B) Seymour. 
How many pre-schools are located in (a) Puckapunyal, and (b) Seymour. 
What is the waiting list for admission to pre-school in Puckapunyal. ' 
What fees are charged for pre-school educa-. tion at Puckapunyal. 
' What plans exist for the increase of preschool facilities at Puckapunyal, what do they include, and when will they be implemented. 
What were the (a) capital costs of establishing pre-school facilities at Puckapunyal, and (b) the recurrent costs of staffing and maintaining these facilities in 1970. 
What (a) amount, and (b) percentage of these costs was met by (i) the Department of the Army, (ii) the Victorian Department of Health, (iii) the parents, (iv) the local council, and (v) any other bodies. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon no' ice: 
What amounts were (a) allocated or (b) scheduled for allocation in Commonwealth grants &lt; to each State for teachers colleges in the (i) 1967- 70 and (ii) 1970-73 trienniums. 
What are the names of the (a) metropolitan and (b) non-metropolitan teachers colleges in each State, and what amount was (i) allocated or (ii) scheduled for allocation to each of these college* in (A) 1967-70 and (B) 1970-73. 
What amounts and percentages were allocated to (a) metropolitan and (b) nonmetropolitan colleges in (i) each State and (ii) ali States in each triennium. 
Can he say what (a) numbers and (b) percentages of students enrolled in teachers college.in the last year for which figures are available were enrolled in (i) metropolitan and (ii) nonmetropolitan colleges. 
In approving allocations of Commonwealth money by Slate Governments for teachers colleges, did he and his predecessors call for adjustments to State building programmes in the interests of balanced development  ir&gt;  metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas; if so, in what instances has this adjustment been called for. 
If it has not been the practice of his predecessors and himself to consider the objective of balanced development in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas, will be introduce the practice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
How many apprenticeships of each kind were (a) made available by the Department of Works and (b) filled in (0 each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth in each year since 1965. 
Mow many apprenticeships will be made available in 1972. . " 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What are the names of all units and sections of units located at (a) Puckapunyal, (b) Bendigo and (c) Monegeetta. 
How many (a) officers, (b) other ranks and (c) all ranks in each section (i) resigned, (ii) reengaged, (Hi) did not re-engage and (iv) were discharged on compassionate grounds or for other reasons in each of the years 1969, 1970 and 1971 to date. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Was it claimed at the time of introduction of 'the Commonwealth Secondary Scholarship Scheme that its purpose was the advancement of students of ability who might have been prevented on financial grounds from going further in their education' if they did not receive a Commonwealth scholarship. 
If so, (a) is this objective claimed for the scheme today and (b) what research has been undertaken by (i) his Department or (ii) 'any State Government Department of Education on the effectiveness of the scheme. 
What sum has been expended on the scheme to 30 th June 1971. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
During his recent discussions with President Nixon and members of his Administration, did he seek an assurance that the ANZUS Treaty covered Australian Forces stationed in the SingaporeMalaysia area. 
Ii so, from whom did he seek the assurance, and with what result. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
During his recent discussions with the Indian Prime Minister  (Mrs Gandhi),  did he discuss the Indian Government's objective of a zone of peace and neutrality in the Indian Ocean: if not, why not. 
If so, (a) did the Indian Prime Minister request the Australian Government's support for this objective and (b) what attitude did ha express. 
Did he discuss the subject with any leader, minister or official of (a) The British Government and (b) the United States Government. 
If so, what attitude was expressed by (a) Those with whom he had discussions and (b) himself. 
Did the Indian Prime Minister request that he support the objective of a zone of peace and neutrality in the Indian Ocean with (a) the British Government and (b) the United States Government: if so, did he do so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the full text of the communication which he referred to on 6th April 1971 (Hansard, page 1456) and in which he claimed that he had communicated to the South African Government the disappointment and regret felt by a great number of Australians that native Africans should be prevented from coming here to participate in a sporting event. 
What was the nature of this communication and when and to whom was it sent. 
Were any other communications made to the South African Government on the subject of the sporting visit or on that Government's apartheid policies within 4 months prior to or 4 months after the communication referred to on 6th April; if so, what was the content, date and nature of the communications and to whom were they addressed in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he confer with the Minister for the Army, the Minister for Labour and National Service and other Ministers whose Departments are concerned with the employment of civilian employees in maintaining Service vehicles in regard to the long service leave entitlements of these employees. 
Has there been a failure to guarantee effectively the right to long service leave of civilian employees at Mob Siding, Seymour, Victoria. 
Will the Government take steps to introduce appropriate legislation or to amend Commonwealth agreements with civilian contractors to ensure that civilian employees are guaranteed to payment of wages during long service leave. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the total (a) full-time and (b) part-time enrolment in (i) each university and (ii) all universities in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth in each year since 1965. 
What percentage of total enrolment did each category of student constitute in each case. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons in (a) each country and 
all countries from which migrants come to Australia had their applications for migration rejected in 1960, 1965 and 1970. 
What are the categories of reasons under which applications are rejected 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of applicants in each case were rejected for each of the reasons. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth policemen are located in each State and Territory. 
In what places, for what purposes and in what numbers are Commonwealth policemen located in Victoria. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is not fit to be the head of an Australian Government. He should resign. He has misled the Parliament and deceived the people.  His  reputation for truthfulness is at an all time low. Few people in this House or outside- 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of permanent married quarters at (i) Puckapunyal, (ii) Seymour, (iii) Bendigo and (iv) Monegeetta that have telephones connected. 
Let me bring this debate back to the simple issue with which we are dealing. That issue is the credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The one question that the Opposition is asking this afternoon is whether, on the basis of the evidence that it has given, we can trust that man. The answer is that we cannot. The evidence that we have cited so far this afternoon concerns only 2 issues. The Prime Minister has not defended himself. As usual, he has left the apologising to be done by another Minister. Once again he is moving out of the House, as he did last week when he was under attack. He left the issue then to be discussed on his behalf by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  He has failed to answer the questions that we have raised, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has tried to rubbish the essential question of the credibility of the Government and its Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister's reputation is in tatters. While that is so, he is trying to drag down the reputation of a man called Kibel. I am sure that many honourable members will recall with dismay the sneer and the smear cast on the commercial practices of a friend of one of the gentlemen sitting on the ministerial bench. That is the practice to which the Prime Minister resorts in self defence. Let me come back to the basic question of the letter that was not sent to the South African Prime Minister. I am most intrigued to know at long last that on 6th April a communication was sent by the Government. In August last year I put a question on notice, and the only part of that question not answered was the part that asked: On what day was the communication sent? That was not answered. The Prime Minister did nol reply to it last week when he had the chance to do so. Now, at long last, he has replied. 
I would draw one simple fact to the attention of honourable members. The action that the Prime Minister took with regard to South Africa was taken on the very day on which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked the question in this House. The Prime Minister is the man who was so genuine in his protestations against the racism of the Vorster regime that he could act only either in anticipation of a question that he knew the Opposition would fire or after it. At long last, however, we know that an action was taken. ! am very interested to note also one other suggestion. Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister said at that time that he was thinking of signing a letter. Most people think of sending letters. This suggests to me - I would like the Prime Minister to answer this - that he did in fact write a letter in the first place. I am sure that after he has had a few stings on this matter he is in a position in which he is inclined, more than he would be otherwise, to speak the truth. I am quite convinced that a letter was written to the Prime Minister of South Africa which was not signed. We may well ask: Why not? 
Perhaps we can go back to the reply that the Prime Minister gave to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in September, when he said that he had discussed with the Embassy of South Africa in Canberra whether a second letter should be sent. I suggest that he also discussed with the Embassy of South Africa whether a first one should be sent and he was told then what he claimed he was told in relation to the second letter that was not sent. That is, that the South African Government would not accept such strong action by the Prime Minister of Australia. I suggest that the letter was written but was not sent. 
The crux of the Prime Minister's defence this afternoon was that the statement he made in the House on 6th April was in substance true - that he had sent a communication. But, of course, that is not the issue. The issue concerns the statement that he made on 4th July last year in Perth. He made that statement publicly. It was quoted by the Australian United Press on 5th July that  Mr McMahon  said he had written to the Prime Minister of South Africa pointing out that Australia was bitterly disappointed that colour had been the basis for choosing sporting teams. That is the issue. On 4th July he said he had written a letter. In August I put a question on notice asking what was the nature of the communication to which he had referred on 6th April. I gave him notice that I would ask what action he had taken. But the most surprising thing, which reflects upon the pathological tendencies of the Prime Minister in matters like this where veracity is concerned, is that only a few weeks later he was served up a question by the honourable member for Chisholm who asked whether he would take action about the racial policies in the selection of sporting teams. Let me refer to what the Prime Minister said some 3 weeks after I had asked the question. On 9th September he said: 
I have, for some weeks past, been contemplating writing a second letter to the Prime Minister of South Africa indicating what I thought were the feelings of the Australian people and, for that matter, my own feelings about the problems of apartheid and its association with sport. I have had discussions with the Foreign Minister about it but up to now we have felt that it would not be prudent to take further action - that one letter might be as much as diplomatic niceties might permit. Nonetheless, I will be only too happy to give further consideration to this letter. In the last letter that I wrote I pointed out the feelings of the Australian people - their regret and disappointment - and I also made known my own feelings which were exactly the same. 
The Prime Minister came into this House and described a letter which had not been sent. He promised that he would write another letter, which was not sent. The simple reality is that he referred 4 times to the letter that he claimed he had sent. Today he said that every comma of what he said earlier is true and that the Opposition is trying to make a mountain out of a molehill. I ask the very simple question: Is it conceivable that a Prime Minister of any country could forget or overlook a letter that he sent to another Prime Minister? It is absolutely inconceivable, and only a person who believes in purveying untruths could say that sort of thing, not once but 4 times in this Parliament. 
The other point is that in reply to my question on notice the Prime Minister said: 
As the honourable member will understand, a letter from one head of State to another head of State is a very rare occasion. 
And this is a rare occasion which the Prime Minister expects us to believe that he had forgotten, overlooked or made some mistake about. This evidence which he has produced today is absolutely unbelievable. Here we have a man who prides himself on having had experience as Minister for Foreign Affairs. He expects us to believe that in fact there is no difference between a letter sent from one head of State to another and some communication passed on by one of his officers to another. He does not believe that himself and he does not expect us to believe it. We do not believe it. 
The basic point which the Opposition makes this afternoon is that here we have a man who does not tell the truth in this Parliament, a man who on 2 occasions has been caught out and who, in particular in this South African case, has even condemned himself with his own words because the statement that he has made in reply to a question upon notice is that no such letter was ever sent. The Prime Minister expects us to believe that he referred to it as a letter inadvertently 4 times in the Parliament. We do not believe that. 
The other matters that call the credibility of the Prime Minister into question are his relations with the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  and the whole question of what really has been going on in regard to this proposed visit to China. An attempt has been made to play this down as an unofficial action. That argument will not stand up. It was an official action. It was sponsored by the Prime Minister himself. It was also paid for by the Australian Government. No doubt, in the next few weeks we will see just how rauch  Mr Kibel's  visit to China and Hong Kong actually cost the Australian taxpayer. So no doubt exists that this was an official visit, no matter what attempts are made to play it down. 
The second point to make in regard to this matter is this: There is a person in this Parliament who can set the record straight from one point of view as to what was the situation with regard to  Mr Kibel.  That person is the Minister for External Territories. This afternoon, he has been gagged. Last week, there was much coming and going between his office and the office of the Prime Minister. According to Press reports, the Prime Minister tried to press him into making statements which the Minister for External Territories realised would obviously damage his own credibility. He did not make those statements. He has made no statement so far. He has said nothing in this Parliament. He has been gagged. He will not be speaking in this debate this afternoon. Is it any wonder? It is bound to be only too embarrassing to him and to the person who is his friend. So an issue has been raised by the Opposition which reflects very badly on the trustworthiness of this Government. A simple question has to be asked: Can the gentleman who occupies the position of Prime Minister in the Parliament be trusted when he makes statements to the Australian people, to our allies, to our friends and neighbours, on the evidence that the Opposition has presented? The evidence that the Opposition has produced this afternoon suggests that the answer is no. The Prime Minister cannot be trusted and that is why I support this motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In which cities and towns outside the metropolitan area in each State and Territory have Commonwealth Centres been established since 1960. 
What is the population of each city or town where a Centre has been established and in what year was the Centre built. 
What stage has been reached in plans to establish a Commonwealth Centre in Bendigo and when will tenders for the building be called. 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science, upon notice: 
What tertiary courses were taught in each individual college of advanced education in each State and Territory in each year from 1969 to 1971. 
What was the total (a) full-time and (b) part-lime enrolment in (i) each college and (ii) the Commonwealth in each of those years. 
How does the Minister for Education and Science justify the claim he made yesterday that the parents of the 75 per cent of children who attend government schools do not care about their children's education and that parents of private school students do? If that is not what be was claiming, what was he claiming? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many general practitioners were there in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth in 1960, 1965 and 1970 or the latest year for which figures are available. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage was practising in (i) metropolitan and (ii) non-metropolitan areas. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage was enrolled in the pensioner medical scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what research has been done in the last 5 years on the social and economic aspects of health care in Australia; if so, when was it undertaken and completed. 
To what extent has this research been sponsored by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What is the estimated amount spent on this research. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what is the formula used for the means test applied by the Departments of Health in each State and Territory for uninsured families and individuals on low incomes for (a) a visit to an out-patients clinic, and (b) use of a public ward bed. 
Rarely have T heard such an exercise in humbug as was purveyed by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  It was a real exhibition. He was like the sophists of the fourth century in Athens - people who had been trained in some philosophical or logical skills and went around prostituting themselves for commercial purposes. That is exactly the way in which the Minister for Housing purveys this pretence at knowledge to the people sitting behind him. All I say is that it is a dismal reflection on their intelligence if they allow that sort of sterility to posture as real wisdom. There is one simple point about what the Minister for Housing had to say. and it is this: He is arguing for no improvement in any education system at all. All of his long and high sounding words could not conceal that fact. He is arguing for the Commonwealth Government riot to spend more money, whether it be on government schools or on private schools whether they be Catholic or Protestant, and that is the reality. 
The Minister for Housing proudly trotted out 2 magnificent examples and he said: 'We have now seen the Labor Party in action, and this is an indication of what will scare the living daylights out of us.' What were the 2 examples he quoted? He quoted Western Australia, but he did not even have the figures - some logician, some philosopher! Then he went ahead to quote South Australia, and he pointed out that 
South Australia was spending only 10 per cent of its total education expenditure on private schools. He did not say what South Australia should spend, and he did not say what it had spent Nor did he point out what the relative position of private schools, Catholic schools and government schools was in South Australia. All honourable members will note one thing: What that gentleman there and the fellow grinning on his right hand side is talking about is not the education of Australians; it is the education of minority groups. Do not treat them as minority groups, because you are doing no greater an injustice to the people whom you claim you represent than by acting as though they are minorities. What humbug to talk about divisive educational, social and economic policies in the way in which the Minister for Housing talks about them. Who has divided this country? Who put the triple system of education into this country? We did not, and perhaps we can say that honourable members opposite did not. lt is historical. Honourable members opposite are not doing anything about it and we are not doing very much about it but at least we can guarantee to all children in any of those 3 systems that they will get a better deal than the Government is giving them. 
I want to refer to a few simple facts which will put the mentality of the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  into perspective. In 1970 the drop out rates a* government and Catholic schools were appalling; they were something atrocious. By 1970, 25 per cent of students who had started at government schools 5 or 6 years earlier were still attending the schools for their final year. That means that 75 per cent of the students had been squeezed out of the education system; 75 per cent of the students had been denied the opportunity to gain the sort of intellectual and personal fulfilment that education can give. At the Catholic schools only 32 per cent of the students remained to do their final year; 68 per cent of the students dropped out. Who is the Minister for Housing really talking about when he talks about diversity in education? What is the diversity? It is the diversity of the poverty and squalor of the Catholic and government education systems on the one hand, and on the other hand the affluence and prosperity of the non-Catholic sector for which both of those gentlemen speak. That is their diversity. One's ability to gain access to the riches of this Government's education system is dependent entirely upon one's income and one's social and economic status, and there is nothing that this Government does to change that. 
We have the situation in which 70 to 75 per cent of students are forced out of the education system before their final year, and there is not a thing that the Government will do to change it. The honourable member for Fremantle pointed to this. He hit the nail right on the head. He said that today the Minister for Education and Science had referred to the fact that government school students had parents who had not evinced a concern. Might I add here: That is about the most insulting statement that that gentleman there, who speaks for one section of the education system, and one system alone, has ever made. Secondly, what is most notorious is the apathy behind it. If the parents of certain students in Australia do not evince a concern, are you worried about that, and is there any single programme that you have introduced or that you have encouraged any State Minister to introduce to compensate for what apparently you regard as being a major factor in education inequality? 
Order! The honourable member for Bendigo has been in this House long enough to know that he must address his remarks to the Chair and that he must refer to members in the House either as Ministers or as the member representing a certain electorate. 
1 take the point ot order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In fact, who is the gentleman who is the Minister for Education and Science? I do not mind being a little personal. If only I could do something a little bit stronger to get some sort of retribution for the children whom I represent and to whom that man is giving a second rate education. I would do it. I do not mind getting a bit emotional about it. Who is he? For whom does he speak? He is the patron saint of the private school. He is Saint Malcolm. He speaks for all the privilege, all the elitism, and all the wealth in this country. All he can show is an arrant smirk when it comes to the needs of the 75 to 80 per cent of children who go to Catholic and government schools. 
In Victoria it is only about 91 per cent. That is a matter for grave concern. We will have to do something about it. Let us have a look and see what this Government has been doing. Let us see where ils sincerity really is. Let us see how it acts when it is shown statements of what the various school systems need. Let us see for whom it speaks. For example, the statement of needs that was produced by the private sector was tabled in Parliament in October last year. Two months later the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was in this House in utter panic and trepidation. He already had a Bill foreshadowed by which he was about to increase the State aid grant. The private schools snapped their fingers and said: 'We want more money.' Only 2 months later the Prime Minister had the money ready, and this is the Bill we are putting through tonight. Two months! 
 Let us look for comparison at the survey of nationwide needs by the State governments. The survey was going on in 1969. It was a major obstacle, the Minister claimed, against the introduction of the Labor system of an Australian schools commission and a regular investigation. That report was known to most of us here by at least May 1970. We have had 2 years at the very least, and the Government has not done a scrap about it. The survey showed that the State schools needed at the very least $l,443m over 5 years, and the Government has not done a scrap about it. All that the Minister has produced tonight is not a programme of education. It is an increase of the per capita grants to private schools and a sop for government schools. That $20m for government schools will expire as soon as conveniently possible after the election. It is a $20m grant that will run out as soon as the election is over. Let us have a look and see exactly what that $20m for government schools represents. 
The Government schools, which take 75 per cent of the students-that is, most Australians - will receive less than 2 per cent of the $I,443m. I stress this to honourable members. As the Minister admitted yesterday, this is the only new specific grant for schools that has been brought in since the nationwide survey was published in 1970. It is the only one which the Government can hold up and say: 'Here is what we have done.' What it has done is to offer $20m to government schools. We know from the nationwide survey of needs that they require $722m for capital expenditure for 1971 to 1975. That gentleman and his Government have offered $20m. They have therefore offered 3 per cent of the capital needs of government schools in Australia. If the Government wants to meet all the capital needs of the government schools over the next 5 years it will have to go on giving that sort of money for 30 years. Of course, the Minister will come back and repeat the sort of humbug that he has been reported by the newspapers as saying recently, that State budgets have increased tremendously and will go on increasing. The point is that there is only one way by which the Government's actions can be judged in this case and that is by asking what it has given specifically for education. 
Victoria's share is $5.1m. To reconstruct the slums in the inner suburban areas of Melbourne alone would cost about $120m to $130m. To reconsruct the squalor and the poverty that has been there, in many cases, for a century would cost Si 20m to $1 30m. The Minister's grant of $20m which will miraculously expire after the election, constitutes 4 per cent. I suggest that one day the Minister might like to take a look around the country schools. He would see that there is poverty and decay not only in the urban areas but also in the rural areas. If one included the outer suburban areas which are already beginning to stagnate, the sum needed would be much higher. In the meantime what we have left in the government schools is a chronic staff shortage. Even if all the money that the State governments require up to 1975 were paid, the nationwide survey admitted that they would not have all the teachers they would need. 
We do not know what the criteria were for that statement. The Minister has a point that nationwide survey is out of date. It is out of date for the simple reason that the Government's inflationary policies have put it out of date. The reason is that the findings were predicated on the assumption that, prices would increase in the next few years by 5 per cent. In fact they were increasing by about twice that rate. So the survey is in fact out of date, but not for the reasons the Minister claims. What is the reason he is doing nothing about the nationwide survey of needs? At one stage he said that the Commonwealth Government had made new arrangements with the various State governments and these would give them extra cash. He could not say how much that would enable them to spend on education or what percentage that would enable them to meet of their Si. 443m needs. Now he claims that the survey is out of date and that the survey that the Commonwealth Government, as I understand, was helping to supervise for 2 years, was based on criteria which have now been proved to be unacceptable. We do not know exactly in what way they are unacceptable. Again the Minister fires from behind corners and one does not know what his standards are. 
Is it not a miraculous thing that we have had a survey for 2 or almost 3 years and at the end of it the Minister comes out and says: 'We don't accept your standards'. One would have thought the obvious time to establish the standards would have been at the beginning of the survey. But of course the Minister is just rationalising his policy of delaying action. The people who will suffer by that most of all are not one section; they are the majority of Australian students, whether they be in Catholic schools or in government schools. I would like to refer very briefly to the Commonwealth Government's system of science grants. One of the Bills before the House deals with capita] development. What amazing laziness and indolence this Government shows when it is prepared to spend about $1 20m on science grants - I may stand corrected on that figure - and it will not spend a single cracker to institute any sort of research or survey to see how that money is being spent. 
Last year I asked the former Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Fairbairn,  pointblank: 'What have you done to survey how this money is being spent? Is it being spent effectively and equitably?' 1 received no answer. The Government cannot answer. If I put a question on notice now, the Government would not know. It would have to say that nothing is being done. All this money is being poured out. the scheme will last II years- from 1964 to 1975- and the Government is too lazy or too stupid to spend a single cent on looking to see how it is being spent. Let us look and see how the money is being spent on science laboratories. This is one of the major weapons the Commonwealth Government uses in its battle for inequality. Nobody is deceived by the Minister's newfound concern about inequality of educational opportunity. He has had this weapon that has been in existence now for 7 years. It is a major weapon to build in inequality. For example, in Victoria the non-Catholic private schools have 9 per cent of the secondary students. They receive 17 per cent of the money and they receive $20 a head for science laboratories. The Catholic schools which have 17 per cent of the students receive 23 per cent of the cash, or $15 a head. Then there is the lower area of schools, to which the Ministers did not go - the government schools. They have 74 per cent of the students. They receive 60 per cent of the cash, or $9 a head. 
Let us just see how the money is worked out so far. This Government intends, if unfortunately it is re-elected, to wind up the system of science grants by 1975. Why? Because the patron saint of private schools has determined that by that time the scheme will have served all the needs of the private schools that it has been designed to serve. I say that, because Victoria has 67 nonCatholic private schools. At least 90 per cent of those schools and 96 per cent of their students have already had anything between $200,000 and $100,000 spent on them. That is not doing badly. Those schools are good places to go to. No wonder the parents have a lot of concern for them. Of course, they are prestige buildings. They are not second rate buildings. They are not something that has been overhauled. They are not old buildings. They are brand new, prestige buildings. Many of them are magnificent. No wonder children are attracted to them. Many of these schools are using their science laboratories as they are using their libraries - to attract students. They do not really worry very much about the Commonwealth Government because they expect this sort of lavishness and largesse from the Commonwealth Government. When they have openings of their new buildings a representative from the Commonwealth Government or the administration may come along, but the people who run these schools treat them with contempt. They are not grateful because they regard what they get as being a right. Incidentally, honourable members may remember that in the survey of private schools, that magnificent gesture performed by the 'Australian' to the elite schools of Australia in January, about 60 schools were surveyed. A number of them consistently made reference to new science blocks and new laboratories, and only two of them had the decency to admit that the money they were getting for the science laboratories and the libraries was coming from the Commonwealth Government. How is that for gratitude? Those are the institutions and people for whom the Minister for Education and Science and the Government speak. So a school such as Haileybury has had a handout of $112,000 for a science laboratory. Geelong Grammar has had a handout of $88,000 for its science laboratory. Incidentally, that was only to the middle of 1971 because there is still big money to be spent. Victorian non-Catholic private schools have $2.3m yet to squander on themselves until 1975, and 90 per cent of them already have major buildings and the money is pouring out of their ears. This Government is bending over backwards to make sure that they have the best standards in this country. Scotch College was given $98,000. No wonder the parents are concerned. No wonder the children of those parents win the Commonwealth scholarships. No wonder they go to the universities. Peninsula Grammar which is owned by a certain aviation gentleman was given $84,000 and, close to my electorate a school called Clyde was given $30,000. By comparison, only 80 per cent of Victorian Catholic schools and about 90 per cent of their students have facilities ranging from $750 to $155,000. Undoubtedly, by the time this scheme ends which, according to Government policy, will be in 1975, most of them will have a top quality science laboratory. 
Let us have a look at the government schools. Only 50 per cent of government schools have had any money whatsoever spent on designing and constructing new buildings or improving old buildings. I am talking only about the cost of building. But let us look beneath that fact which looks quite good by this Government's standards. Only about 15 per cent of the technical schools had $30,000 or more spent on building them. I suppose they would have an average of 500 or 600 students but they do not count - they are government schools. 
Yes, that is correct. Only 40 per cent of government high schools have had $55,000 or more spent on building them. So, here there is this magnificent inequality about which the Government, in the person of the Minister for Education and Science, is suddenly so concerned. In my own electorate we see the same discrimination. There are 10 gov-  eminent schools, 7 of them high schools and 3 of them technical schools and yet only one-half of those schools have had expenditure to the value of about $166,000 on buildings. There are 9 private schools in my electorate and over $200,000 has been spent on their buildings. I do not begrudge that. I have visited these schools. I have seen some of the Catholic schools. They are not the sort of schools to which the Minister went. In many cases, they are poor schools. This is a scandalous situation. The school called Clyde, which is close to my electorate, was provided with $30,000 for a science block. It has 172 magnificent acres, 140 students and a recent report rejoiced at the fact that the final year science student numbers had increased from one to 8 in one year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of general practitioners enrolled in the pensioner medical scheme in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth in 1970-71 who received (A) less than $500, (B) $500 to $1,000, (C) $1,001 to $2,500, (D) $2,501 to $5,000, (E) $5,001 to 310.000 and (F) more than $10,000 in reimbursement for treating persons covered in the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
On what occasions were (a) medical and (b) hospital benefit contributions increased in each of the years 1970 and 1971. 
What sura was spent by benefit organisations in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth in advertising each increase in contributions and the need to transfer to higher schedules. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many children of Army personnel are there of pre-school age living at (a) Puckapunyal and (b) Seymour. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of them are attending (i) primary school and (ii) preschool at (A) Puckapunyal and (B) Seymour. 
How many pre-schools are located in (a) Puckapunyal and (b) Seymour. 
What is the waiting list for admission to pre-school in Puckapunyal. 
What fees are charged for pre-school education at Puckapunyal. 
What plans exist for the increase of preschool facilities at Puckapunyal, what do they include, and when will they be implemented. 
What were the (a) capital costs of establishing pre-school facilities at Puckapunyal and (b) the recurrent costs of staffing and maintaining these facilities in 1970. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of these costs was met by (i) the Department of the Army, (ii) the Victorian Department of Health, (iii) the parents, (iv) the local council and (v) any other bodies. 
As one of the young lions who has been accused of the horrible thing of doing his duty as a member of the Opposition, I can only deplore the attack made by the toothless tiger who has just resumed his seat - the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  In particular I deplore the intemperate blast against the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  just because, I suppose, he did not happen to go to the same law school. I think that the performance was most indecorous. I would that I had my glasses that I might remove them and put them on again. The honourable member's argument had no facts whatsoever. He said nothing. He and the previous  speaker  for t':e Government, the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street),  made reference to some other retraining schemes. The Opposition did not intend to discuss these today. However, seeing that they have been raised, f would ask the honourable member for Berowra and other honourable members to look particularly at the widow pensioners training scheme, for example. 
A figure was used to lie. The honourable member quoted that such and such  a  number of widows had been retrained. But let us look at what the reality is. I did not intend to bring this matter up. I have just put a question on notice about it. I had also put a question on notice about the training scheme for married women. But let us look at these schemes now that they have been raised. We find that in 1970-71 there were 90,000 class A and class B widows in Australia. The Government received applications for training from 3,574, or 4 per cent. The number of widows who completed their training was 869. That is to say, of all those 90,000 widows in Australia who have been forced to live on the miserable dole that this Government gives them, only one per cent completed the retraining course. And this is the scheme honourable members opposite are supposed to be so proud of. They must be joking. 
There is also a rehabilitation scheme being run by the Commonwealth Depart ment of Social Services, and 1 shall ask a question about that very shortly, too. Honourable members might care to look at the figures at the back of the report of the Department of Social Services. In 1970-71, 30,625 people were referred for rehabilitation. Only 1,660 were accepted. It is incredible how appallingly bad the facilities for rehabilitation in Australia are. Five per cent of all those people referred were actually retrained. Of the 12,367 invalids who were referred for rehabilitation 457 were accepted. It is the same crude, insensitive, brutal materialism that characterises the Liberal Party in every sing'e one of its social welfare policies. I want to refer solely to the retraining scheme for farmers and farm employees. This scheme is an abortion. It has already disastrously miscarried. It is a cynical and fraudulent sop tossed to farmers. It is aimed at conveying the pretence that the Government, which is phasing farmers off the land through its rural reconstruction scheme, is concerned for their wellbeing. 
Like so many Government schemes, this one was never meant to succeed. It is the classic product of the crude materialism of the Liberal Party and the apathy of the Australian Country Party, which are prepared to leave farmers and their families at the mercy of cruel economic forces. The scheme has collapsed. Only 24 of the nation's farmers and farm workers are being given retraining. These are the figures provided by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  himself in his Press release in mid February replying to my charge that less than 30 were being retrained. On the Minister's figures, only 153 had even made an application. I repeat that only 24 were approved. 
The Minister may conjure up rhetorical flourishes and pay lip service to what he refers to as 'the tremendous human dilemma faced by farmers' but this will not disguise the failure of this misbegotten scheme. It is a feeble excuse to claim, as the Minister did, that the scheme has collapsed on the ground that it has been operating for only 4 to 5 months. In reality, the Government had 2 years in which the rural reconstruction scheme in toto was being mooted, debated and postponed; it had the 5 months since that scheme was passed by the Parliament in May. Whatever else it has been doing, the Government has not used this 2i year period to produce an attractive and effective retraining scheme. 
The size of this failure cannot be played down. In mid-February only 24 farmers and workers had been approved for retraining. There are about 250,000 farmers and farm managers in Australia. I am not taking into account in that figure the number of farm employees. At present only one in every 10,000 farmers is being retrained; that is, 0.01 per cent. The retraining scheme is a mockery and an insult to fanners and the farming community. The Government has claimed that its reconstruction scheme as a whole is aimed at dealing with a large scale social and economic problem. Some people have estimated that up  t3  100,000 farmers could be phased out under this scheme in the years to come. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has stated publicly that up to 14,000 wool growers alone are to be phased out. Few of them are likely to seek or to obtain any protection for their future livelihoods, judging by the appalling record of the retraining scheme to date. I would also point out that, since the previous census, small towns and farming areas in Australia have declined in population. They have lost a total of 132,486 people - farmers, seasonal workers and others. None of those people have been helped to prepare for a new livelihood. The reality of the situation is that those people have been dumped by the Government. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has already shown how the retraining scheme for people displaced by technological change has been hamstrung by the limitations imposed on the types of persons who are eligible to participate in it. The same position applies with the rural retraining scheme. The only farmers eligible are those who have been found unviable by a State reconstruction board. They have been either rejected in applying for debt reconstruction assistance or had their properties acquired from them by another farmer who wants to build up his property. A man has virtually to be forced off his property to qualify. Thus only those who have failed within the definition of the Commonwealth Government are eligible. By December of last year only a mere 2,088 of the farmers throughout Australia were eligible. That is the number of farmers who applied unsuccessfully for debt reconstruction aid. Yet less than 1 per cent of that number has been given retraining. 
Part of the failure of the scheme must be attributed to its restrictiveness. Only farmers who apply unsuccessfully for debt reconstruction are eligible. Those who do not apply successfully are still forced to go through the motions of applying in order to be rejected. Likewise a worker has to be employed by a farmer for 1 year in order to be eligible. That squeezes out council and all other country employees and seasonal workers. Indeed, the employee has to persuade his farmer-employer to apply for debt reconstruction aid and then be rejected before the employee is eligible. This is not just red tape; it is suggestive of a kind of medieval feudalism with its implications that the worker is chained to his employer. 
Equally repulsive is what the scheme offers. The offer of a maximum full time course in a training institution runs into the defect that probably only about one per cent of the courses offered by technical colleges are of 1 year's duration or less. Diversity and freedom of choice are platitudes to this Government but they are obviously not to be offered to the farmer nor has there been any significant consultation between the Government and educational or training institutions to operate the scheme effectively. That is tragic as country institutions, such as the Bendigo Institute of Technology in my electorate, with their range of courses, highly qualified staff and proximity to farming areas are ideally placed to plan and carry out courses suited to the needs of farmers in the region. 
Few farmers or employees would be attracted by the offer of a minimum wage to undertake training. The offer of the payment of $46.20 a week to a man who has a wife and 2 children means that he would be receiving $4 below the poverty line of $50 in Melbourne. A man with a wife and 4 children would be $19 below the poverty line of $60 and a man with a wife and 6 children would be almost $30 below the poverty line of $75. It so happens that $46.20 a week is an income earned by only one in every 10,000 adult male employees in Australia. The total number of adult males earning that income is 3,100. One of the major obstacles preventing a desperate farmer from applying for retraining is the responsibility of educating his family. I stress that point. The income offered would only force many children out of school. The Government should instead provide allowances and scholarships to all student children of farmers who need them to enable them to complete their education to their limits. That would remove a major cause of anxiety which prevents farmers from accepting this scheme. 
It is a half-baked scheme. Even the document in which the Minister announced it last year was characterised by its dullness and lack of imagination and sensitivity. Nothing better shows just how half-baked it is than the fact that it was borrowed from the retraining and rehabilitation scheme for national servicemen. The Government has claimed that the retraining scheme is an integral part of the whole reconstruction scheme, and so it is. All the other parts have failed and this part has failed also. It is surpassed in its futility only by the offer of a $1,000 loan to help farmers get off their properties. They are not taking advantage of that offer either. This scheme has betrayed those employees and others in rural communities who have been forced out of their traditional occupations and it has failed the farmers who are not unviable. While agriculture is becoming increasingly complex and sophisticated the scheme does nothing in the way of providing extension services, especially in farm management courses, to retrain farmers to cope with one of the basic challenges of modern agriculture. Australia needs a single coherent and integrated system of retraining for the community as a whole. All we have at the present time is a series of unco-ordinated, divided and disunited schemes which have been introduced to cater for individual groups. Until we have a single training scheme in the community as a whole we will continue to squander the future of thousands of people in this country, including those in the farming community. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was Ambassador Anderson or any other person at the Australian Embassy in Paris informed that  Dr Kissinger, President  Nixon's adviser for national security affairs, had visited Paris on a dozen occasions since 4th August 1969 for negotiations with representatives of North Vietnam; if so, who in the Embassy was informed, when and by whom. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
 What function have Australian representatives fulfilled in connection with the Paris peace talks since: 
Ambassador Anderson left Paris, and 
Australian troops left Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In which colleges of advanced education (a) are degree courses now being provided and (b) is it planned to provide degree courses. 
What are the names of the courses involved in each case. 
What (a) was, or (b) will be the first year of each degree course. 
Which of the colleges are situated in (a) metropolitan, and (b) non-metropolitan area. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the (a) names, (b) numbers and (c) percentages of (i) Government schools, (ii) Catholic private schools and (iii) non-Catholic private schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth in respect of which applications under section 78 (1.) (xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, for the allowance of donations for certain school building projects and other projects as a taxation deduction, were (I) made, (II) approved and (III) rejected in each year since 1960. 
What was the exact nature of the project for which the donation was to be used in each case. 
What was the value of the project for which a taxation deduction was (1) sought, (2) approved and (3) rejected in (a) each case in each school, (b) all cases in each school and (c) all schools in the classifications (i) Government schools, (ii) Catholic private schools and (iii) nonCatholic private schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth (I) in each year and (II) as a total, since 1970. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. I ask: Does the Commonwealth finance the training of teachers of English to migrant school children? Does it also pay the salaries of such specially trained staff while engaged in such teaching? Has he been informed that the policy of the Victorian Government specifically prevents such specially trained and qualified secondary teachers from teaching English to migrants in secondary schools? Has he been informed that the reason given for this policy is that such teachers are more urgently needed to teach other subjects to secondary pupils as a whole and that these staff are not to be used for teaching English to migrants until the State's overall shortage of secondary teachers is overcome? Finally, does this policy being pursued by the Victorian Government endanger the welfare of migrant school children and does the Minister's failure to prevent it represent a dereliction of bis responsibilities? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that Of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in. cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stayin their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
For how long was there a continuation of the delay in the translation of details of migrants' eligibility to benefits under the subsidised health benefits scheme to which the Minister referred in answer to  question  No. 4234 (Hansard,9th December 1971, page 4544). 
What was involved in the project and what was its estimated cost. 
On what date was the project implemented after its suspension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) migrants, (ii) sickness beneficiaries, (iii) unemployment beneficiaries, (iv) special beneficiaries and (v) non-income families receiving (A) less than $46.50, (B) $46.51 to $49.50 and (C) $49.51 to $52.50 per week who (I) were eligible to enrol in the subsidised medical scheme, (II) had registered with the Department of Social Services for membership in the scheme and (III) had registered with a private health benefits fund in each State and Territory and in the Commonwealth as at 2nd November 1971. 
What were the equivalent figures and percentages as at (a) 27th February 1971 and (b) 30th June 1971, and what increase or decrease do the figures and percentages for 2nd November 1971 represent. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister state the means by which those enrolled as Class A, B or C beneficiaries in the subsidised medical scheme were enrolled in the scheme. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of those referred to in answer to question No. 2SS0 (Hansard, 16th September 1971, pages 1496-8) as being approved by the Department of Social Services were directed into enrolment in the scheme by (i) a hospital, (ii) a medical practitioner and (iii) the Department of Social Services. 
By what other means are beneficiaries directed to the Department of Social Services. 
I feel that purely for the record's sake I should comment 
I would like to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made certain allegations about me. Those allegations are false. In commenting on why I made those statements let me say that the reasons that he gave today as to why the facilities for education in the Australian Capital Territory are so outstanding amount, in my opinion, to a philosophy of portability of privilege for public servants. That is the very reason 1 made the statements. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What wasthe closing date for the lodging of applications by woolgrowers for assistance under the emergency relief programme. 
Was the closing date as finally applied different from that originally specified; if so, what was the original date. 
What (a) percentage and (b) number of applications for assistance were (i) lodged and (ii) rejected in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth. 
How many, applications were received by his Department afterthe closing date in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What wasthe average grant in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the total sum granted under the scheme was granted to woolgrowers in each Slate and Territory. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of recipients of assistance in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth received grants of (A) less than $10, (B)$11-$50, (C)$51-$100, (D) $101-$200, (E) $201-$300, (F) $301-$400, (G) $40l-$500. (H)$501-$1.000, (I) $1,001 -$5,000. (J) $5,001-$10,000, (K) $10,001 -$50,000, (L) $50,001- $100,000, (M) $100,001-$500,000 and (N)$500.001 and over. 
Can he also provide these figures in progressive (a) totals and (b) percentages. 
I want to speak very briefly about a situation which affects a number of my constituents and which has been caused by what 1 regard as the very punitive policy adopted by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  It arises from the fact that he has adopted a very discriminatory interpretation as to who is eligible for the unemployment benefit. The situation arose in February as a result of the industrial dispute associated with the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. At that time the Minister came out with a statement that people who were members of a union which was involved in an industrial dispute would be debarred from receiving the unemployment benefit. 
I do not want to spend too much time dealing with the interpretation itself except to say that I believe that the interpretation that the Minister has imposed on the word eligibility' simply cannot be sustained legally or morally. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  in an excellent speech in the House on 22nd March, pointed this out when he referred to one specific clause in the Social Services Act which stated thai the unemployment benefit could be given to a person who is unemployed and whose unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike. That was the most emphatic point that the honourable member for Corio made - the claimant had to be a direct participant in a strike. Many people in my electorate - thousands of people in Victoria were stood down as a result of the industrial dispute in Victoria - were not direct participants in this industrial dispute. I regard as most discriminatory and most vindictive the policy that the Minister for Social Services has pursued in determining that thousands of people in Victoria who are now facing very severe financial hardship as a result of that industrial dispute shall not receive the unemployment benefit. 
I believe that the Minister's statement was intended to be vindictive and punitive. It was intended also to be inflammatory. The mentality that the Minister reflected in his speech in reply to the honourable member for Corio was precisely that. Nothing is more typical of the union baiting and the arrogance ot this Minister than his statement in reply to the honourable member for Corio, which is recorded on page 1060 of Hansard of 22nd March as follows: 
Let me say quite clearly and definitely that it is the Government's policy that public money should not bc used to finance strikes. 
What he is doing is trying to ensure that any person who is in any way associated with a union involved in an industrial dispute shall be punished. That is the mentality he has adopted in this case. The policy he adopted was very embarrassing because it took days of consultation between himself the Department of Social Services and the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to work out the legality of the statement that he had actually made. But of greater importance is the fact that it was very difficult for him to implement his policy because it was very difficult to decide who was a member of a union which was involved in an industrial dispute. 1 believe that to avoid considerable embarrassment to the Minister for Social Services his Department has been given a direction about choosing who is to receive the unemployment benefit and who is not. I believe that it is very much a hit and miss tactic that he has used. 
Thousands of people in any case were deterred from applying for the unemployment benefit because of this statement the Minister made in the Press. Many people who went to social service agencies were told by the officers of the Department of Social Services who had heard the statement: 'It is not much good applying for the unemployment benefit because you will 
Dot get  it anyway'. I believe that there are thousands- of people in Victoria who have been deprived of their right, and it is their right because they are taxpayers. I could argue also on the immorality of denying people the benefit simply because they are involved in a strike, but I will not go into that at this stage. There is a large category of people who have been effectively debarred from the benefit which it is their right to receive. 
The question now is: How docs the Minister find out who is a member of a union which is involved in an industrial dispute? I believe that his Department has rejected applications from hundreds of people. It has adopted a hit and miss policy. The Department says: 'We do not know which union this person belonged to, but it is probable he was in one of those unions. So we will reject his application.' This is the policy which was adopted: The Department says: 'If he does happen to complain, and in particular if he happens to call on a member of Parliament to assist him, we shall reconsider the matter'. I think there have been a number of cases in which the Department of Social Services has made arbitrary decisions as to who is eligible. In one of the items of correspondence that I have received from the Department of Social Services we find a statement that a person was rejected because he was considered - no evidence was given as to the basis on which he was considered - to be a member of a union involved in an industrial dispute. That is one case. The other cases involve those persons who have complained, who have taken their cases to members of Parliament. I point out that in my electorate of Bendigo which takes in my own city of Bendigo and the surrounding cities of Maldon, Castlemaine and Heathcote thousands  of  people have been stood down. I have received at least 60 applications from workers who have been debarred on the most general grounds possible. All that the letter in reply to them has said is that the unemployment benefit will not be paid because the person concerned was not eligible. It is like saying: 'You can't get it because you can't get it'. Where a member of Parliament has complained or where an individual has taken up his case a most unusual practice has been pursued. A circular letter is sent out to all these people. 
It demands information as to whether the person concerned was a member of a trade union or association on 2nd February 1972 and, if so, which one it was. It is a most unusual document. This indicates quite clearly that the Department simply did not know in the first place whether the people it had rejected were or were not members of the appropriate trade unions. If it had known, why did it send out this document? 1 repeat that I believe this has been a very discriminatory policy pursued against certain people purely on the ground that they were members of a trade union. I ask the Minister for Social Services to look again at the interpretation he has chosen to place upon the concept of eligibility under the Social Services Act. In my own electorate thousands of people were stood down. Many of them were out of work for 2 weeks. I want to point this out to the Minister: When he goes crazy as he usually does about industrial disputes, unions holding the nation to ransom, left-wingers and all that, let him come back to a little human reality and recognise that the people with whom we are dealing in the case of cities such as Bendigo or Castlemaine are receiving $50 or $60 a week. Being out of work for 2 weeks can upset their budget for the rest of the year. Some of these people are now facing the problem of meeting council rates which can cost them $120. The Minister debarred them from receiving the benefit for the first week. He only had to give them a few dollars. If the Minister reinterprets what he has done so far he can help these people. I appeal to him to look at the interpretation he has placed on this matter of eligibility and to think in terms of human beings and their needs instead of dogmatism and witch hunts against Communists and left-wingers. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (MackellarMinister for Social Services) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
)' asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the figures which he provided on the (a) number and (b) percentage of applications for assistance under the rural reconstruction scheme for (i) farm build-up and (ii) debt reconstruction which were (A) received, (B) accepted, (C) rejected and (D) being processed in (I) each State and (II) the Commonwealth since the scheme commenced (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4567-8). 
How many applications for the rural reconstruction loan of up to $1,000 (a) have been received, (b) are being processed, (c) have been accepted and (d) have been rejected in (i) each State and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
What is the average loan offered by reconstruction boards in (a) each State and (b) the Commonwealth for (i) farm build-up, (ii) debt reconstruction and (iii) both. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken to ensure that the maximum possible contribution is made by Government ordnance factories and other Government industries in the production of the 1-ton Army vehicle which was publicly tested and proven. 
Are there any factors which prevent the vehicle from being constructed in its entirety by Government ordnance factories or other Government industries if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the date chosen by his Department for assessing the number of people unemployed in each month? 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of people registered as unemployed in (i) metropolitan areas, (ii) non-metropolitan areas, and (iti) both areas in (A) each State and Territory, and (B) the Commonwealth in each month since the Prime Minister announced grants for rural unemployment relief. 
How many people were receiving employment under the rural unemployment relief grants in each months since the grants were announced as at the date in each month used by his Department for assessing the number of people unemployed. 
What percentage of the people unemployed in (a) non-metropolitan, and (b) both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas does the number receiving employment under the grants represent for each month in (i) each State and Territory, and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On what date or dates did he have discussions with the Prime Minister about further possible protest to the South African Government against its racial sporting policies as mentioned in the Prime Minister's statement to the House on 9th September 1971 (Hansard, page 989). 
On what date or dates did he or the Prime Minister or any representatives of the Australian Government have discussions with any official or officials of the South African Embassy in relation to how that Embassy and the South African Government would react to a possible expression of protest by the Australian Government against the South African Government's racial sporting policies. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many of the 24 applicants who have been approved, according to his Press statement of 18th February 1972 for retraining under the rural reconstruction retraining scheme had commenced retraining as at 18th February 1972. 
What was the average age of (a) applicants and (b) those approved for retraining. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) applications and (ii) approvals were in each State and Territory. 
What sum was (a) allocated and (b) spent to advertise the scheme up to 18th February 1972 and in what ways was this money expended. 
In what newspapers in each State and Territory was the scheme advertised and how often were the advertisements inserted in each case. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of the 24 applicants approved were approved for (a) on the job training, (b) a vocational course at a technical college or (c) any other type of training. 
What are the names and locations of institutions at which approved persons are undertaking vocational courses. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) those applying for and (ii) those approved for assistance under the schemes as at 18th February were (A) farmers, (B) members of farmers' families, (C) farm employees and (D) others. 
What vocational courses are being undertaken by approved applicants. 
What are the names of vocational courses of one year's duration that are being offered at technical colleges in each State or Territory. 
What number of approved applicants are farmers who will be moving from their farms to city areas for retraining. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
When may I expect answers to questions Nos. 4848 and 4969 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 1 December 1971 and 22 February 1972, respectively. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In what ways have improvements been made in the screening and selection of immigrants as stated by a spokesman for his Department in 'The Age' of 15th October 1971. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in (i) Government, (it) Roman Catholic and (iii) other private schools (A) sat for and (B) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1971 in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of all the candidates was from each of the three school systems in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What percentage of the scholarships was awarded to candidates from each of the three school systems in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science, upon  notifice: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in each, of the following schools (i) sal for Commonwealth secondary scholarship examinations and (ii) were offered scholarships in 1971: Bendigo High School, Bendigo Girls' High 
School, Eaglehawk High School, Castlemaine High School, Broadford High School, St Vincent's (Bendigo), Marist Brothers (Bendigo), St Mary's (Bendigo), Assumption College (Kilmore), St Joseph's College (Kilmore), St Gabriel's (Castlemaine) and Girton CEGGS (Bendigo). 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in each of the following schools (i) sat for Commonwealth secondary scholarhip examinations and (ii) were awarded scholarships in (a) each year and (b) all years since the scheme was introduced, including 1971: Kyneton High School, Sunbury High School, Rochester High School, Rushworth High School, Convent High School (Kyneton), St Mary's (Rushworth), Sacred Heart (Rochester), Salesian Fathers's (Sunbury) and Clyde (Mount Macedon). 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many post offices in the Electoral Division of Bendigo have been (a) downgraded, (b) upgraded and (c) closed since 1965. 
What was the name of the post office and the year in each case. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a very short statement in reply to the attack which was made on me during the reply by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
May I make a personal explanation? I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I did not make false statements about the origin of the policy of the present Minister for Social Services of withholding unemployment benefits. What I did say was that withholding benefits from people who, in this case, were not direct participants in an industrial dispute was unjust and immoral. That was the main point that I made and I will argue later when the opportunity arises about the actual historical source of what the Minister is now doing. 
I wish to deal with the injustice and discrimination in relation to one aspect of grants to the States. I refer particularly to grants made for science laboratories in secondary schools. The scheme to provide financial assistance for science laboratories in secondary schools was commenced in 1964 and is scheduled to end in 1975. Some tremendous injustices have arisen in the implementation of this scheme - injustices which the present Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  refuses to rectify. I request that now, at long last, this scheme be re-examined and that the Commonwealth accept responsibility for meeting the continuing needs of all schools, according to just and efficient priorities and according to need. I refer particularly to the defence by the Minister for Education and Science in newspapers yesterday morning of a grant of $63,000 to one private school. I ask honourable members to consider what it means when that school is compared with one State high school in my electorate. It means that the 140 pupils at one of Victoria's most exclusve private schools are receiving 6 times as much per head from the Commonwealth Government for science buildings as the 900 pupils at one of Victoria's major State high schools in my electorate. 
Clyde private school at Woodend has received $360 per head for building costs for science buildings whilst Bendigo High School is receiving only $60 per head. Clyde has received about $50,000 in building costs alone from the Commonwealth for its secondary science facilities. In mentioning this figure I should state that in fact it received $63,000, but in order to make a comparison between Clyde and Bendigo High School, in respect of which we have a definite building cost figure, I have deducted about $12,000 as the cost of equipment and architects fees at Clyde. In effect, Clyde received from the Commonwealth Government about $50,000 for building costs alone for secondary science facilities. This is just less than the $52,000 received by Bendigo High School for a face-lift on the cheap done to its ancient science rooms. I regard these 2 grants and the discrimination they reflect as typical of the cockeyed priorities of this Government. In this way Clyde's privileged handful of 140 pupils have ended up with some of the best science accommodation in Australia's schools. Bendigo High School, after the inexpensve but actually very wasteful facelift to its old rooms, has been punished with second class, outdated and overcrowded science classrooms that have been tizzied up with little benefit to its pupils. 
Although Bendigo High School is the largest secondary school in the district, it has no hope of obtaining new laboratories from Commonwealth funds. It is the most important school in the whole area, yet it has no hope of receiving improved laboratories from Commonwealth funds. That means it has no hope of receiving improved laboratories at all. The Minister for Education and Science has defended the grant to Clyde, which totals $63,000 when architects fees and costs of equipment are added, by saying that the grants are made on the recommendation of a priorities committee and a standards committee. I note that he does not accept responsibility himself; he is saying that the reponsibility lies with some other body. The Minister says virtually that he has no responsibility for what happens in government schools because under this scheme the money is handed directly to the State governments and they decide their own priorities. The Minister is trying to defend the indefensible in justifying the grant to Clyde whilst glibly washing his hands of guilt for the impoverished science facilities in government schools. 
The needs of Clyde private school are far less than those of Bendigo High School. The Minister for Education and Science has omitted some very significant facts in his defence of the Commonwealth grant to Clyde. Clyde's pupils are from families that can afford to pay $1,800 a year for board for their daughters. Slumbering luxuriously on the sylvan slopes of Mount Macedon, the school boasts among its 172 acres of real estate not only a swimming pool but also a 9-hole golf course. If the school decided that with the saving made on the science laboratories totalling, as I say, $63,000, including architects costs and equipment costs, it could afford another 9-hole golf course, the Minister undoubtedly would say that it was not his business. 
I now want to compare priorities as they should be and as they are. Clyde private school has only 11 pupils in its single second form science class. I repeat that at Clyde there is one second form class for science and that it has only 11 pupils. While these pupils will enjoy the most lavish and up-to-date science laboratories, the 4 classes of second form science students at Bendigo High School will never see a science laboratory until they reach senior level. Bendigo High School has 4 classes of second form science students, each with 40 pupils, or a total of 162 pupils - in form 2 alone. I stress that there are more pupils in this form at Bendigo High School than there are in the whole of Clyde. Yet Bendigo High School receives less than Clyde for science laboratories. I estimate that on private school standards - that is, the standards the Government stands by for private schools - Bendigo High School should have about 7 laboratories as well as preparation and storage areas; but because of the chronic shortage of science laboratory rooms at Bendigo High School these pupils are condemned for years to studying in a 20-year-old decaying temporary classroom which has only 4 gas burners, no water and only a small bench for its 40 pupils. Incidentally, the little room in which those pupils are forced to do their work is ferociously hot in summer and freezing cold in winter, but it looks set to remain as part of the school scene for donkeys years. Practical science is impossible for these children - 160 of them, virtually disfranchised. 
Let us compare the Leaving students. The Minister for Education and Science has guaranteed nothing but the best for the total of 17 Leaving science students at Clyde whilst forcing Bendigo High School's 90 Leaving science pupils to work in 2 ancient science rooms that were built in 1871. I point out that, although money has also been spent on 2 other rooms which are being renovated for science purposes, one of these cannot be used because it is hopelessly small for average classes of 30 to 40 pupils, which is the average size class in schools conducted by the Education Department, and another room on which Commonwealth money has been spent is too small for practical classes of the same size. I point out also that, according to the Press report of the figures mentioned by the Minister for Education and Science, at Leaving standard there were at Clyde 17 students taking biology, 9 taking physics and 5 taking chemistry for examinations. Compare these figures with those for Bendigo High School where there are 90 Leaving science students in classes of 25 to 30 pupils. In addition, whilst Clyde had about 54 science periods last year, Bendigo High School this year has probably the equivalent of 130 to 140 periods of 40 minutes each. On these figures the comparison does not look very bad; Clyde has 40 science periods and Bendigo High School has 140. Of course, most of the classes at Bendigo High School can have anything from 30 to 40 pupils in them, and, incidentally those classes must be that large because the school is chronically short of laboratory accommodation. Consequently all the pupils have to be squeezed into what is available. 
I also want to make some comparison between ,he total form enrolments at Bendigo High School and the total form enrolments at Clyde. Bendigo High School has a total enrolment in form 1 of 193. Form 2 has 162, form 3 has 152, form 4 has 160, form 5 has 135, and form 6 has 96, making a total number of students of about 900. In almost any one of those forms one will find more children enrolled who are in more urgent need than the children enrolled in the whole of the private school. We should also compare Clyde's total enrolment. In form 1 it has 17; form 2 has 11, form 3 has 21, form 4 has 21, form 5 has 44, form 6 has 22. I do not begrudge Clyde having those small classes. I think it is very fortunate and is entitled to say, as was said in the 'Australian' on 24th January this year, that the school has small individualised classes. This is very good for those children attending that school. I do not begrudge it lo them but just say that all schools in Australia should be able to give the same sort of facilities to their pupils. However, we have a far larger school with far more urgent priorities in Bendigo High School and many others like it in Victoria, which are not getting comparable assistance from the Commonwealth Government. Those schools will continue to stagnate and suffer from second rate science standards. 
Of course, at the end of this progress of education these children at Bendigo High School, other State schools and many Catholic schools, will have to compete against what I call the Fraser school pupils, those who attended the privileged minority of non-Catholic private schools which have been chosen for special rewards by this Government. The kids at Bendigo and other schools like it will have to compete against the Fraser school children and they will find it hard because this Government has made sure that it bestows every benefit that it can upon the non-Catholic private schools. It will give them the greatest advantage possible. The individualised leaching that is possible at Clyde is to be compared with the mass instruction, based on the principle of hit and miss teaching, forced upon the government schools in Victoria because of the shortage of finance. Here we have individualised teaching at Clyde in very small classes and a massive sum of money made available to that school in comparison with the needs of government schools. I would say that it needs that money from the Commonwealth Government but Bendigo and other high schools need it more and should get it first. 
I want to highlight the discrimination against Bendigo High School and many schools like it in Victoria. If Bendigo High School were a private school it would be entitled to about $200,000 worth of laboratories, storage and preparation areas. It has received $52,000 and it will never get the rest. As it is a government school it must rest content with a system of 4 walls and a bunsen burner. This is the policy of the Minister for Education and Science in providing for government schools - 4 walls and a bunsen burner is good enough, he believes. By comparison the Commonwealth Government and specifically the Minister take direct responsibility for updating every single private school in the Commonwealth to standards laid down by the Commonwealth Government. On the other hand, when one questions the Commonwealth Government and specifically the Minister for Education and Science one asks: How do you justify this position in government schools and so many Catholic schools, but particularly in the government schools in the case of science grants? In reply they say: 'We make grants of a general revenue nature to the States which they distribute according to their priorities as established by them'. Behind that cloud of evasive waffle lies the reality of impoverished State treasuries which in turn pass on their poverty to the State school children. 
So the Commonwealth Government washes its hands of any guilt for the poverty and squalor of the State system and evades its responsibility by buck passing. The present Minister continually relieves himself of blame by resorting to mindless parrotting of slogans to the effect that the State governments determine their priorities out of funds provided by the Commonwealth. This merely means that while State governments need and ask for money the Minister treats them with contempt. So we come to the amazing situation where under present allocations government school pupils are getting only about $9 a head throughout the State of Victoria in Commonwealth science funds while the non-Catholic private schools are getting $20 a head - twice the amount and regardless of need. When this is put on a flat basis one could say that on Government reasoning the child attending the non-Catholic private school needs twice as much as a child attending a government school. Why? We have never been told why. The result of this discriminatory allocation is that since 1964 and up to the middle of last year, according to my estimates, at least 62 out of a total of 68 nonCatholic colleges in Victoria have had anything between $20,000 and $100,000 spent upgrading their science facilities or building new facilities. I stress that of 68 of these non-Catholic private schools in Victoria - these Fraser colleges - 62 on my calculations had between $20,000 and $100,000 spent on them by the middle of last year. Another $2.3m is to be spent on them between 1971 and 1975 when the system of special grants for science facilities will run out. However, by this time probably half of the States' 350 high schools and technical schools will still be left with second-class science laboratories and facilities. I think it is a disgraceful situation. 
When one asks the Minister why the scheme will run out in 1975 he has no reason to give. He will say, of course, that the scheme will have achieved its purpose, but it will not have. The needs of the government schools in Victoria and in other States are something colossal and the Department of Education in Victoria is very disturbed about this money, which is already less than is needed, being cut off in 1975. For the interest of honourable members I shall quote from a statement which has been sent around to government schools in Victoria by  Mr T.  J. Ford, Assistant Director of Secondary Education in Victoria. He is obviously very concerned that this money will be cut off in 1975. I say the reason that it will be cut off in 1975 is that by that time it will have achieved its purpose principally for the non-Catholic private colleges and less so for the Catholic colleges which will still be left, however, with great needs. The needs of the government schools just do not matter. The letter which was sent around to the various principals by  Mr T.  J. Ford this year says: 
The Commonwealth Government intends to end the grants for Secondary School Science in June 1975. The Secondary Division is grateful that Commonwealth funds have helped to upgrade Science Teaching facilities but it recognises that a significant number of less-than-optimum rooms will remain in use for Science teaching at the end of the grants. These observations will be conveyed to the Commonwealth Department but it must be expected that the grants will not be extended. 
Consequences follow the Commonwealth decision. Firstly, any future Science provision other than certain projects planned for 1971-1975, will need to be financed by State funds. It remains to be seen whether these will allow the continuing upgrading which has been possible with Commonwealth assistance. Secondly, it has been necessary to review priorities lists in order to reflect some of the standards associated with Commonwealth money in each and every school. It is recognised that some schools which have at least some modern rooms may still have a deficiency. Several schools with 4 science rooms would be in that category. Such schools may need to make the best use they can of their facilities and hope that any population bulge passes. Additional rooms for these schools are unlikely under present State funds. 
In addition to buildings, science equipment is heavily funded by the Commonwealth grant. 
In fact there is a colossal percentage of Victoria's science money going into equipment. The letter continues: 
Every effort is being made to have State funds increased to replace the loss of finance after 1975. 
At the head of this paper is a statement, taken from files and priority lists, relating to your school. 
In other words, the government schools are in for a very serious situation relating to the shortage of Commonwealth funds after 1975. Looking very quickly at my own electorate, I compared the situation of government schools in my electorate with private schools throughout the rest of Victoria to see how assistance is working out. My electorate has 10 high schools and technical schools. They are in the Bendigo, Castlemaine, Broadford and Seymour districts. Those 10 schools have 6,200 secondary pupils and have received a total of $167,864 for building costs alone. What this boils down to is one-third for each student of what is given to private schools of whom I chose 10 as a sample. Let us compare them. I have selected 10 private schools from the most exclusive schools in Victoria. In fact they were chosen from the 'Australian' article back in January and have been chosen by random sample. They have a total enrolment of 7,760 and at that time a total of $689,000 had been spent on them. Deducting the cost of the design and architecture of these buildings and the cost of equipment, it gives comparison between the few private schools in Victoria where private schools are receiving over $600,000 compared with $167,000 spent on 10 government schools in my electorate. Government schools get $27 per head and private schools get $78 per head. But, of the 10 government schools in the Bendigo electorate, 5 received nothing and only 3 received new buildings. 
The schools in the Bendigo electorate, as is evidenced by the earlier example of the Bendigo High School, on the whole are suffering from what I would say is a second rate level of science facilities. Yet those schools will be completely ignored by the Commonwealth Government when, for reasons of its own political advantage, it exterminates the scheme in 1975. I think the scheme should be re-examined. Obviously more money is needed for government schools; and, in particular, those Catholic schools that are in need of more assistance should also receive it.. In my opinion, there is no reason why this grant should be cut out in 1975, when money is so urgently needed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Under what conditions is a taxation deduction allowed for donations for certain school building projects and other associated educational projects under section 78 (l.)(a) (xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
Is there any difference in the eligibility of (a) Government and (b) private schools in respect of which an application is made. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the estimated cost to the taxpayer of allowing donations for certain school building projects and other associated educational projects as taxation deductions under section 78 (1.) (a) (xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act since 1960. 
If an estimate has not been made or  is  not to be made will he say why. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What was the  number  of (a) Class A, (b) Class B and (c) all widows who were eligible for the widow pensioners training scheme in 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
What number and percentage of these (a) applied for the Scheme, (b) were accepted, (c) commenced training, (d) completed training and (e) were placed in employment. 
What number and percentage of those who applied were not accepted and what were the general categories of grounds on which these applications were not accepted. 
What number and percentage of those accepted for training had had partial or full (a) professional training, (b) commercial/clerical training, (c) craft or trade training and (d) training of any other kind, specifying details. 
What number and percentage bad had no vocational training of any kind. 
Will he provide details of the education qualifications of those accepted for training showing what numbers and percentages of these had had (a) primary education only, (b) secondary education to (i) second, (ti) third, (Ki) fourth, (iv) fifth and (v) sixth year and (c) tertiary education Of (i) one year, (ii) 2, (iii) 3, (iv) 4 and (v) 5 years or more. 
What number and percentage of the widows accepted for training (a) had (i) no children, (ii) one child, (iii) 2, (iv) 3, (v) 4 and (vi) 5 or more children and (b) were receiving supplementary assistance. 
What number and percentage of the widows Accepted in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth for training were living in (i) metropolitan and (ii) non-metropolitan areas. 
What number and percentage of all the women accepted for training were (a) less than (i) 30, (ii) 40, (iii) SO, (iv) 60 and (b) over 60 years of age, and what was the average age. 
What number and percentage of those accepted for training (a) were given (i) part-time or (ii) full-time training, (b) undertook courses by correspondence and (c) were given (0 refresher training or (ii) training as a new skill or occupation. 
What are the categories of occupations for which trained widows have been found positions and what are the numbers and percentages in each category. 
What has been the cost to the Commonwealth of the training scheme in (a) each and (b) eli of the years since the inception, excluding administrative costs. 
How many widows were granted (a) a $4 per week training allowance, (b) the $5 per week living away from home allowance, (c) tuition fees, (d) the cost of fares to and from the place of training and (e) the allowance of up to S80 for books, equipment, appliances, etc., in the years 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
What was the cost to the Commonwealth in respect of these grants in each of those years. 
How many widows in each of those years were given (a) loans for items to enable them to engage in outside employment and (b) loans of up to $400 for equipment for employment in their own homes. 
What has been the average loan, of each kind in each of the years. 
What was the total expenditure for each type of loan in each of the years. 
On what date was the training scheme for widows introduced and what have been the total numbers of (a) all widows, (b) class A and (c) class fi widows who (i) applied for training, (ii) were accepted, (iii) were rejected, (iv) commenced training, (v) completed training and (vi) were placed in employment 
What sum was (a) allocated and (b) expended on advertising the scheme in 1969-70 and 1970-71 and in what ways has this money been spent 
What other methods were used to advertise the scheme. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of students enrolled in (i) Government, (ii) Roman Catholic and (iii) other private schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth who (1) commenced the first year of secondary education in 1966 or 1967 and, (II) enrolled in 1971 for their final year of secondary education. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
What questions are asked and what other procedures are used to screen the mental health of prospective immigrants. 
What research has his or any other government department undertaken into the mental health problems of migrants resident in Australia. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
What incentives does his Department provide to encourage (a) doctors employed to screen overseas the health of prospective immigrants and (b) other officials employed by his Department overseas to undertake formal study of the language of the country in which they are to be posted both prior to departure for overseas and during their overseas posting. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
In which countries have Australian doctors been engaged in screening the health of prospective immigrants since 1965? 
What has been the average duration of a doctor's service in (a) each and (b) all of these countries in that period. 
1 ask the Minister for Education and Science a question concerning drop-out rates in secondary schools throughout Australia. Do the figures he released yesterday show that in 1971 only 26 per cent of government pupils and only 33.9 per cent of Catholic pupils were still enrolled for their final secondary year? Do the figures also show that 81.7 per cent of non-Catholic private pupils were still enrolled for their final year? Does a comparison between 197 1 and 1970 in Victoria's government schools show that the only improvement was that last year there were only 29 more pupils still staying on out of the original 46,000 government pupils? How does the Minister account for the inequalities reflected in these figures? Is he concerned about them? If so, what action does he intend to take? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice:  (1) Has his Department conducted any surveys on the effects of technological change on employment since the survey of establishments between November 1969 and August1 970; if so, what findings have these surveys revealed. 
What was the number of employees, prior to retrenchments, in the 2,700 establishments which his press statement of 17th February, 1972, said had been surveyed by his Department. 
What (a) number and (a) percentage of these were retrenched because of technological change.  notice were circulated: 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of those retrenched were (i) transferred to other positions within their establishments and (ii) not offered positions within their establishments. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of those retrenched who (i) transferred to and (ii) were not offered positions within their establishments (A) suffered a fall in income as a result of the retrenchment and (B) were unable to find uew employment within (I) 1 month, (II) 2 months, (III) 3 months and (IV) more than 3 months. 
What were the categories of establishments surveyed between November 1969 and August 1970 and how many establishments were in each category. 
When does he intend to conduct further research to bring up to date his Department's awareness of the effects of technological change. 
On what date did the retraining scheme for persons displaced by technological change come into effect. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of applications to his Department for retraining had been (i) made, (ii) rejected and (iii) accepted as at 17th February, 1972. 
On what grounds have applications been rejected. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth arranged a crash course for qualified teachers so that they will have some understanding of teaching English as a second language (TESL). 
Do certain education institutions such as La Trobe University offer a course in the Teaching of English as a Second Language. 
Can he say whether the Victorian Education Department is faced with a severe shortage of staff in its State secondary schools and for this reason has decided not to allow its teachers to concentrate on migrant English. 
Can he also say whether any other State Education Department has taken similar action thus decreasing the already small numbers of teachers qualified to teach English to migrants. 
If so, will he urgently intervene and take action to prevent this from happening. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the classification of each official employed in Turkey in screening and selecting applicants for migration to Australia. 
How many officials are there of each classification. 
How many of them are (a) Australians with formal qualifications in the Turkish language, (b) native Turkish officials and (c) officials of other nationalities. 
What are the formal language qualifications of (a) Australian born doctors, (b) other Australian born medical or paramedical staff and (c) other Australian born officers. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he table the documentary evidence of or from April 1947 which he has used as evidence for his claim that a Labor Prime Minister, Attorney-General and Minister for Social Services then ruled that members of a union that sponsors or supports an industrial dispute are not eligible for unemployment benefit. 
Will the Government undertake to meet the costs of a test case to test the legal validity of the interpretation that he himself has given to eligibility in the circumstances mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many doctors engaged for screening overseas the health of prospective immigrants (a) applied for and (b) undertook courses in foreign languages at the expense of his Department in each year from 1965 to 1971 inclusive. 
In which languages did these doctors undertake courses. 
What was the average length of each course taken, and how many doctors undertook each course in the same period. 
Which languages spoken by prospective immigrants in their native lands have not bean taught in language courses. 
In what institutions have doctors undertaken these language courses. 
What sum was spent by his Department (a) in each of the years 1965 to 1971 inclusive and (b) in all of these years in financing or reimbursing doctors for undertaking language courses. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
How many applications for unemployment benefit were made to his department in Victoria during February 1972 and how many 
were rejected 
were approved, and 
are still being processed. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
On what grounds were applications for unemployment benefit which were lodged with his Department in Victoria during February 1972, rejected. 
How many applications were rejected on each of these grounds. 
By what means was his Department able to determine whether persons were ineligible for unemployment benefit on the ground that, in the case of the State Electricity Commission industrial dispute in Victoria during February 1972, they were members of a Union participating in or sponsoring an industrial dispute. 
How many applicants for unemployment benefit have been sent letters to date (a) rejecting their applications on the unspecified grounds that they were ineligible within the terms of the Social Services Act and (b) advising that the Department had made an error in refusing the application and that a cheque was being forwarded for the days approved for benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons who applied for unemployment benefits during the recent Victorian power dispute were sent special questionnaires in February and March 1972 requiring details of their union membership. 
How many of the applications by persons who were sent the special questionnaires (a) were accepted, (b) were rejected and (c) are still being processed. 
Did he claim that his decision to deny unemployment benefits to members of unions that sponsor or support an industrial dispute was in accordance with the policy which was laid down by the then Prime Minister, Attorney-General and Minister for Social Services in April 1947. 
On what (a) occasions and (b) dates have special questionnaires being used since April 1947 to seek details relating to an applicant's union membership similar to those used during and after the recent Victorian power dispute. - 
How many questionnaires were sent out in each case. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  What are the (a) categories and (b) numbers of officers employed by his Department to administer (i) each and (ii) all of the training and retraining schemes which are being offered by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
On what dates and from which officials of (a) Roman Catholic and (b) other private schools in each State and Territory were formal requests received for increased financial assistance in 1971. 
What was the (a) nature and (b) value of the assistance sought in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he discuss with the Prime Minister a further possible protest to the South African Government against its racial sporting policies as mentioned by the Prime Minister on 9th September 1971 (Hansard, page 989)? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral upon notice: 
What is the ratio of public telephones to private dwellings in the Commonwealth. - 
What is the ratio of public telephones to military permanent married quarters in the (a) Puckapunyal and (b) Seymour -areas -in Victoria. 
How many (a) public telephones and (b) military permanent married quarters are there in each of those areas. 
What is the (a) ratio of public telephones to all dwellings and (b) number of. (i). public telephones and (ii) private dwellings in the entire urban area of Seymour. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) general practitioners and (b) specialists were there in each State and Territory in the last year for which figures are available. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) general practitioners and (ii) specialists who were registered in the pensioner medical scheme. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What steps were taken in 1971 to increase the workload at the Commonwealth Ordnance Factory at Bendigo. 
From what date did these steps take effect and what effect did they have on the level of employment at the factory. 
What steps (a) have been taken in 1972 to date and (b) does he intend to take to increase the workload at this ordnance factory. 
What has been the effect of these steps, and what effect does he anticipate they will have on the level of employment. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In what year was the aerodrome at Bendigo first opened. 
What bodies or authorities are responsible for financing and administering the aerodrome. 
What sum has been spent by these bodies on the aerodrome since it was first opened. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the total expenses has been met by the Commonwealth. 
What plans has the Government for upgrading and improving the aerodrome. 
asked the Minister for Sup  ply, upon notice: 
How many employees at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory have (a) retired, (b) resigned and (c) permanently left employment at the Factory for any reason since 1st January 1971. 
What were the occupations of these people. 
How many of these positions have not been subsequently filled and what is the reason. 
I call to the attention of the Minister for Education and Science the fact that the grants being paid to private schools include per capita grants by State governments also, according to his scheme. Is it a fact that under this scheme, allowing for an increase in the number of pupils attending independent schools and an increase in the costs, over the next 5 years, the extra amount that will be paid out to private schools will be $250m? This amount will be paid out by the Commonwealth and State governments in capital grants and in increased per capita grants. Is it a fact that if the State governments play their part, as requested by the Prime Minister, they will not have the $l67m in capital grants but rather a net increase of only $42m? Do these figures, therefore, show that the private schools over the next 5 years will get an extra $372 a head while government schools will, in fact, get an extra $17.50 a head? How does the Minister explain this inequality between the 2 systems? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On what date was the employment training scheme for Aborigines introduced. 
What sum has been (a) allocated and (b) spent in (i) each year and (ii) all years of operation of the scheme and in what way has this money been spent. 
How many Aborigines in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth have (i) (A) applied for, (B) been approved for, (C) been rejected for, (D) commenced and (E) completed training and (ii) been placed in employment (A) after training and (B) without training. 
What assistance is made available (a) for training, (b) for employment after training and (c) in establishing a business. 
What are the terms of eligibility for assistance under the scheme. 
What are the general grounds on which applications for assistance have been rejected, and what (a) numbers and (b) percentages have been involved in each case. 
What are the names and locations of educational and training institutions at which Aborigines are being trained and for what kinds of employment does each prepare Aborigines benefiting from the scheme. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the (a) average cost, of an attendance at an out-patient's department of a public hospital and (b) average patient contribution to the cost in (i) Australia and (ii) each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the name of each training and retraining scheme which is being offered by  his  Department. 
What sum has been allocated in 1971-72 for each scheme. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of each allocation has been expended to date. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of his advice in answer to question No. 5106 (Hansard, 21st March 1972) that it would be impracticable to supply a complete list of applications made under section 78 (1.) (a) (xv) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which have received consideration in each year since 1960, will he give the names and addresses of schools in respect of which applications were (a) made, (b) approved and (c) rejected in 1971. 
What was the (a) purpose and (b) estimated value of (i) each project and (ii) all projects on which a taxation deduction was allowed in 1971. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In which  (a)  universities and (b) colleges of advanced education are (i) diploma and (ii) degree courses in physical education provided in each State and Territory. 
What is the length of the course in each case. 
What was the total number of (a) full-time and (b) part-time students enrolled for these courses in each case in 1971 or the last year for which figures are available. 
How many eligible students (a) have applied for admission to these courses, (b) have been accepted and (c) have been rejected in each case in each year since 1965. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service upon notice: 
What were the numbers and percentages of 
married, (b) single and (c) all women in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth who (A) applied for training in the employment training scheme to assist married and single women, (B) were accepted, (C) were rejected, (D) commenced training, (E) completed training and (F) were placed in employment by the end of February 1972 or at the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
On what date did the scheme commence. 
On what grounds were applications rejected and what were the numbers and percentages involved in each category of reasons. 
What number and percentage of (a) married, 
single and (c) all women in (f) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth had had partial or full (A) professional training (B) commercial/clerical training, (C) craft or trade training and  CD)  training of any other kind, specifying details. 
What number and percentage had had no vocational training of any kind. 
Will he provide details of the education qualifications of those accepted for training showing what numbers and percentages of these had had (a) primary education only, (b) secondary education to the (i) second, (ii) third, (iii) fourth, (iv) fifth and (v) sixth year, and (c) tertiary education of (i) one year, (ii) two, (iii) three, (iv) four and (v) five years or more. 
What were the numbers and percentages of the single adult women accepted for training in 
each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth who were (i) single women over 21 years of age, (IQ widows, (iii) divorcees, 'iv) single mothers,  (v)  deserted wives, (vi) women with husbands in mental institutions, (vii) women with husbands in penal institutions and (viii) others, specifying categories and numbers involved. 
What number and percentage of (a) married, 
single and (c) all women accepted for training in the- Commonwealth had (i) no dependent children, (ii) one child, (iii) two, (iv) three, (v) four and (vi) five or more dependent children at the time of being accepted. 
What number and percentage of women in the Commonwealth referred to in part (6) were in receipt of Commonwealth pensions. 
What were the types of pension and what numbers and percentages were receiving supplementary assistance from the Commonwealth. 
What was the average weekly income from Commonwealth sources of those receiving this income. 
What were the numbers and percentages of 
married, (b) single and (c) all women accepted for training in the Commonwealth who were (i) less than 30, (ii) less than 40, (iii) less than SO, (iv) less than 60 and (v) over 60 years of age, and what was the average age. 
What numbers and percentages of (a) married, (b) single and (c) all women accepted for training in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth were living in (A) metropolitan and (B) non-metropolitan areas. 
What numbers and percentages of (a) married, (b) single and (c) all women accepted have been given training for (i) up to 3 months, (ii) up to 6 months, (iii) up to 12 months and (Iv) up to 2 years in (A) correspondence courses, (B) parttime, (C) full-time courses of study of educational or training institutions or  CD)  on-the-job training programmes with approved employers. 
What has been the total (a) allocation and 
expenditure, excluding administrative costs, by the Commonwealth on the scheme up to the end of February 1972 or the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
What numbers and percentages of (a) married, (b) single and (c) all women accepted have been granted (i) the weekly maintenance allowance, (ii) the allowance for dependent children, (iii) payment for fees, fares, postage, essential books, equipment and other associated costs, (iv) the full-time allowance of $4 per week and (v) the $5 per week living-away-from-home allowance. 
What has been the cost to the Commonwealth for each and all of these items. 
How many dependent children have there been in respect of whom an allowance was granted. 
What sum has been paid by the Commonwealth to employers as reimbursement for onthejob training women. 
What are the categories of employment for which women have been trained under the scheme, and what numbers and percentages of women have been trained for each category. 
What sum has been (a) allocated and (b) spent on advertising the scheme and in what ways has this money been spent. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of general practitioners enrolled in the Local Medical Officer Scheme in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth, in 1970-71 who received in reimbursement for treating persons covered in the Scheme (A) less than $500, (B) $500 to $1,000, (C) $1,001 to $2,500, (D) $2,501 to $5,000. (E) $5,001 to$ 10,000 and (F) more than $10,000. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Can he say how many general practitioners there were in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth in 1960, 1965 and 1970 or in the latest year for which figures are available. 

 Can. he also say what (a) number and (b) percentage was practising in (i) metropolitan and (ii) non-metropolitan areas in each case. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage was enrolled in the Local Medical Officer Scheme. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Can he say bow many (a) general practitioners and (b) specialists there were in each State and Territory in the latest year for which figures are available. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of (i) general practitioners and (ii) specialists who were registered in the Local Medical Officer Scheme. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Will he take steps to ensure that funds are voted in the 1972-73 Budget to allow prompt commencement of the Commonwealth Centre planned for Bendigo. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Ministers (a) saw and (b) read his letter dated 23rd December 1971 which he claimed in the House on 22nd February. 1972 (Hansard, pages 9 and 10) to have written to  Sir Ian  McLennan in relation to a possible increase by Broken Hil) Pty Co. Ltd in the price of steel. 
Where, on what date and at what time did each of them (a) see and (b) read the letter. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many immigrants have been repatriated for all reasons at the expense of the Commonwealth hi (a) each year and (b) all years from and including 1960. 
What was the cost in (a) each year and (b) all yean. 
What were the categories of grounds on which these immigrants were repatriated. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage in each category and what expense was involved in respect of each category. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage ot those repatriated in (i) each year and (ii) all of the years on medical grounds, were returned to their homelands on psychiatric grounds, and what expense did the Commonwealth incur in respect of these. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has any survey or research been undertaken by 
his Department; or 
any other body at the request of his Department into the effectiveness and equity of the Commonwealth Science Facilities Programme. 
If so, 
what survey or research has been undertaken; 
by whom has it been conducted; and 
at what cost. 
What stage has any survey or research reached, or, if it has been completed, what are its findings. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What sum has been spent to dale to advertise through the mass media recent changes to social service benefits as announced in the minibudget of 13th April 1972. 
On what grounds did he decide that public funds should be used for this extraordinary purpose. 
If the use of public funds to advertise changes in social service benefits is not extraordinary, on what occasions within the last 5 years were such changes advertised at public expense in the mass media. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date for the months of (a) March and (b) April 1972 the figures on rural reconstruction given in reply to Question No. 5042 (Hansard, 29 March 1972, page 1390). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the South African Government announced on 2nd April 1971 that black cricketers would be barred from the South African cricket team which was expected to visit Australia later that year. 
Did he assure the House on the afternoon of 6th April 1971 (Hansard, page 1456) that he has already communicated a protest to the South African Government against its exclusion of black South Africans from this team. 
Did he later omit to answer that part of Question No. 3801 (Hansard, 22nd February 1972, page 73) which specifically asked when this communication was sent. 
Did be inform the House on 29th February 1972 (Hansard, pages 336-7) that on the morning of 6th April 1971 he had spoken to the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and had instructed him to convey urgently and immediately to the South African Embassy his personal concern at the exclusion of non-white players from the cricket team. 
In view of his statement that his protest was communicated to the South African authorities before he made his statement on the afternoon of 6th April 1971, will he now state at precisely what time (a) he instructed the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs to convey the protest and (b) the Secretary conveyed the protest. 
Will he now say where this protest was conveyed and to whom it was conveyed. 
Will he table a record of the conversation in which the protest was conveyed. 
On what date did he inform his Cabinet colleagues that he had arranged for the protest to be sent and which colleagues did he inform. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was a letter drafted for him last year to send to the Government of South Africa in relation to that Government's decision to exclude nonwhite players from the South African cricket team. 
If so, (a) on what date and by whom was the letter drafted and (b) on what date and on what grounds did he decide not to sign and send this letter. 
asked the Minister for 
Supply, upon notice: 
What are the main items of clothing which comprise uniforms worn by members of each of the three Armed Services. 
What are the fibres used in the production of these items of clothing. 
What percentage of these fibres consists of (a) wool, (b) each fibre other than wool and (c) all fibres other than wool. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In which (a) colleges of advanced education and (b) universities have correspondence courses been provided since 1960. 
What were the (a) numbers and (b) names of the courses offered in each institution in each year since 1960. 
How many students were enrolled in (a) each course and (b) all courses at (i) each institution and (ii) all institutions in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth in each year since 1960. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth university (open entrance) scholarships were (a) offered and (b) accepted in (i) each State and Territory (ii) the Commonwealth in 1971 for use in 1972. 
What number and percentage of students who were offered these scholarships had undertaken their final secondary year at a school in (a) the Government, (b) the Catholic and (c) other private school system. 
What number and percentage of the students in each of the three systems (a) applied for and (b) were offered scholarships in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
If the information sought is not available, will he give special directions to have it provided. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the (a) numbers and (b) percentages of the processed applications that have been (i) lodged, (ii) approved and (iii) rejected for assistance to date under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth for (1) debt reconstruction, (II) farm build up assistance and (III) both types of aid at the levels (1) $1 to $500, (2) $501 to $1,000, (3) $1,001 to $5,000, (4) $5,001 to $10,000, (5) $10,001 to $25,000, (6) $25,001 to $50,000, (7) $50,001 to $100,000, (8) $100,001 to $250,000, (9) $250,001 to $500,000 and (10) $500,001 and above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
ls it  a  fact that free outpatient treatment in the Australian Capital Territory is provided according to a means test. 
If so, what are the details of the means test. 
Under the subsidised health insurance scheme, would a man supporting a wife and 6 children and paying rent or housing repayments at the rate of $10 a week from a wage of $72 a week be excluded from any benefits of the scheme, but be entitled to free public hospital outpatient treatment in the A.CT. 
If so, what is the basis on which the subsidised health insurance scheme means test has been constructed and why is it at sharp variance with the means test establishing eligibility for free outpatient treatment in the Canberra Hospital. 
Will the Minister study the comparatively liberal means test applied by State Governments in determining eligibility for free treatment in (a) an outpatients clinic and (b) a public ward of a State public hospital as set out in the answer to question No. 4356 (Hansard, 7th March 1972, pages 658-60). 
Has his attention been drawn to figures given by the Treasurer in answer to Question No. 4162 (Hansard, 7th December 1971, page 4254) which show that only about 3,100 or 0.2 per cent of the nation's adult male wage earners were earning in May 1971 the weekly income which qualifies a family for free health insuance under the subsidised Health benefits scheme. 
If the Minister is concerned at the small number of low income families who have applied for enrolment in the subsidised health benefits scheme, will he take steps to liberalise the means test which is now denying assistance to tens of thousands of families. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many applications were made in  (a)  each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth by 10th May 1972 for retraining under the rural reconstruction scheme. 
What numbers and percentages of the  processed  applications were (a) accepted and  (b)  rejected  in  (i) each State  and  Territory  and (ii)  the Commonwealth. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Mi Lynch - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1) 
The figures given are as at 30th April. Statistics are normally compiled only at monthly intervals. 
Applications received but not processed comprise in the main, applications withdrawn or applications not processed pending further advice from the applicant 
I  raise an issue which concerns the question of the poverty survey that the Government has decided to institute and in particular the effect that the cost of health insurance is having on poor families in Australia. I refer especially to the failure of the Commonwealth Government's scheme to offer subsidised or free health insurance to low income families. This scheme has proven to be virtually an unqualified disaster. Yet, the Government continues to prop it up at very considerable expense and with advertising which is wasteful and serves Hale purpose. It is sheer pigheadedness and obstinacy on the part of the Federal Government that it will not basically change this scheme. All the evidence proves that this scheme has failed. It is getting through to only a very small minority of the poor families who are supposed to be eligible for it. Yet, the Government continues to inflict upon these people, a scheme which cannot work, which many of these people have never heard of and for which many, even though they are in poverty, are too wealthy to qualify. 
The Federal Government is crucifying tens of thousands of low income families in Australia on an outmoded and extravagant system of health insurance. For sheer dogmatism this scheme takes some beating. 1 give just some quick indications of how this scheme of free and subsidised health insurance for low income families has failed. I am talking particularly about that section of families which is supposed to qualify for free health insurance when the family income is below $51.50 per week. There is a tapered means test up to $51.50 a week, but the latter section does not count because so few of those families are enrolled in the scheme. I am talking specifically about these low income family groups earning $51.50 a week. These people are being cruelly punished by this Government's scheme of health insurance. 
Originally the Government estimated that throughout Australia 180,000 families would be eligible for free health insurance. At this stage there are probably no more than 7,000 families, or 4 per cent, enrolled in the scheme. In Victoria only 750 families are fully covered with free health insurance, yet on the Government figures there should be 60,000. In other words, in Victoria only about 1 per cent of all the eligible families is actually covered by this health insurance scheme. It is a shocking scheme. It is a scheme that has been condemned by the medical profession, by pharmacists, by hospital administrators, by social workers and by welfare organisations. Anyone with the slightest understanding of health and social welfare knows that this scheme simply cannot operate effectively; but then, of course, it never was intended to do so. It is window dressing to give the impression that the Government is dealing with a basic defect in its national health scheme - that is, thousands of people simply cannot afford to insure themselves. 
I shall quote a few cases from any own electorate to show how disastrously this scheme has failed. I am talking very largely about hospitals in areas where there are many low income families. I suppose that in my own electorate there should be at least 3,000 to 5,000 families getting subsidised health insurance but the figures reveal that the position is nothing like that. For example, the Seymour Hospital, over a 2-year period, has had about 5,000 outpatients and inpatients. Of those 5,000 outpatients and inpatients over those 2 years no more than 2 have been people who were qualified for free health insurance because of low income at the level of $51.50. Over a period of 2 years the Bendigo base hospital has had more than 40,000 inpatients and outpatients. The maximum number of families covered for free health insurance because of low income below $51.50 at the moment is 2. A similarly dismal picture can be painted for any other part of my electorate, whether it be Castlemaine, Kilmore or anywhere else. The failure to let people even know of this scheme, let alone qualify for it because of low income, is disgraceful. 
I quote a statement that was made at a meeting on 27th June this year of an organisation of hospital people. It was the Combined Administrative and Nursing Advisory Committee of the North East and Goulburn Valley Region - quite a large hospital area in Victoria extending from Kyabram and Seymour up to Wodonga. On 27th June this Committee commented that the situation with respect to this health insurance scheme had not improved over the previous 3 months. It went on to say: 
There has been little or no improvement in the subsidised medical scheme. Patients were mostly  unaware of their entitlement at the time of entering hospital or were discharged before advantages could accrue. 
This is evidence that the scheme simply is not operating, according to that Committee's investigations. I conducted an investigation myself. I had phone calls and conversations with people operating 20 pharmacies throughout my electorate - in Bendigo, Castlemaine, Broadford, Kilmore, Seymour and so on. I asked how this scheme was operating. I calculated from the replies that only about 5 in every 1,000 people taking out prescriptions - only 1 in 200 or less than 1 per cent - were people who were receiving this free health insurance. 
Steps have been taken by the Federal Government to publicise the scheme but these are not serious and sincere efforts. They have really proven that if in fact the Federal Government were sincere about trying to get people into this scheme by advertising it, such advertising would prove almost prohibitively expensive. For example,- in February the Federal Government, stung into action by criticism from the Opposition, sent representatives of the Department of Health to Wollongong for 4 weeks. The Government spent about $3,000 in that 4 week period in advertising the operation of and eligibility for the scheme. In Wollongong there are approximately 200,000 people. There are 10,000 to 20,000 ramifies, according to the Federal member for the area,  Mr Connor,  on low incomes. The sole achievement of the attempt to publicise the scheme in the Wollongong area was that for one month the number of applications for subsidised health insurance rose by 52. If one takes the cost of advertising alone, one can see that each extra application for free health insurance in the Wollongong district cost $50. What was the result? The Government decided that advertising such as this, if it were conducted on a national scale, would be impossibly expensive and that the Government does not intend to continue advertising. 
The Government is now inflicting another publicity scheme on poor and low income families in Australia. It is now resorting to another technique. It has been sending Out with child endowment cheques posted through the mail a small notice informing the mothers receiving the cheques that they may be eligible for the subsidised health benefits plan, as it is now called. This is a most amazing thing. I was told 3 months ago by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  in reply to a question on notice, of plans for this scheme. It has taken 3 months since I was notified of the plan to advertise it through these notices and to send out these notices with the child endowment cheques. Not all the notices have been sent. More are still being sent. I think about 700,000 are being sent. In Victoria about 193,000 are being sent, after a delay of 3 months. The scheme has been operating for over 2 years now and only now is the Government starting to advertise on any substantial scale. 
What is wrong with the scheme? Obviously the Government does not intend to advertise on any substantial scale because the scheme is too expensive. The Government does not intend to deal with one of the basic problems. I refer to the stringent means test that the Government continues to inflict upon the poor. The people who suffer the most from the means test are those on low incomes and those who have large families. I quote an example. A person with an income of less than $51.50 a week can get free insurance. Virtually nobody gets this income. In my electorate a man with an income of $65 a week, with 7 children, the eldest of whom is 10, is in debt for over $1,000 through just keeping his family surviving. He could not keep up his hospital benefits insurance. If he had it would have cost him nearly $2 a week. He is indebted to the hospital. He has a large family. He is getting $20 below the poverty line of $85 in Victoria. Under the scheme he is punished because he is trying to raise a large family on a low income. In the eyes of the Federal Government he should be able to live and try to raise a family of 7 children on $65 a week. He is too rich; he does not get the benefits of this scheme because the means test is so severe. In Victoria a man could earn an income of $112.50 and still qualify for free treatment at the outpatient clinic of a public hospital. Yet with just over half this income he is excluded from help from the Federal Government. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to help finance the expansion of the Home Help Service at Puckapunyal since his answer to my question No. 3199 (Hansard, 7th September 1971, pages 871-72) when it was indicated that the question of assistance from a source other than the Victorian Government was being investigated. 
What has been the result of the action taken. 
How many (a) adults and (b) children reside in Puckapunyal area. 
Can he say how many (a) persons are employed by the Home Help Service and (b) applications for home help were (i) received and (ii) met in 1971. 
In what year was the service introduced. 
What sums have been expended in each year since the scheme was introduced and from where are these funds derived. 
Is a civilian in Victoria able to obtain home help during his wife's confinement; if so, is this service also available for Army personnel residing at (a) Puckapunyal and (b) Seymour. 
For how long has there been a deadlock over the Home Help Service between the Commonwealth and the Victorian Government. 
What are the names of Army camps in each other State or Territory. 
In which of these is a home help service provided and are the funds used in each case provided by (a) the Service organisation itself or (b) local and State Government authorities. 
Has there been resistance by any other State government to helping the financing of such a service; if so, which States have resisted. 
Will the Government take steps to provide funds to ensure that a suitable service of this kind is provided for Service personnel and their families at all Army camps. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth funds for science laboratories granted to private schools on the basis that a school is entitled to one science laboratory with extra associated storage and preparation area for each 28 science periods taught per week. 
If so, what is the minimum number of pupils required for each science subject at each form level to qualify for a grant on this basis. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it anticipated that by the time the Commonwealth Secondary Facilities Scheme is scheduled to terminate in 1975 every (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) non-Catholic private secondary school in Australia will have secondary science laboratories and associated accommodation and equipment at the standards which the Commonwealth accepts for private schools. 
If not, what (a) number and (b) percentage of these schools is expected to have facilities of standards accepted by the Commonwealth. 
How many new science laboratory rooms have been erected in (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private schools under the Commonwealth Secondary Science Facilities Scheme up to the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Was the promise he made on11th May 1972 of a grant of $167m to State governments for 1973-77 intended as a net increase in total education funds to State governments or as a net increase in capital funds only. 
Does he expect State governments to increase per capita payments to private schools over the same period to the equivalent of 20 per cent of the cost of educating a government school pupil; if so, does he intend to provide special extra grants to States to meet these new costs. 
How much of the additional $167 million offered to the States will be left to the States if they increase per capita grants as set out in the scheme outlined by him and he does not provide special extra grants to meet these new costs. 
If he requires the States to spend the additional $l67m on buildings. and the States also increase per capita payments to the equivalent of 20 per cent of the cost of educating a government pupil, does he expect that the States will have more funds to erect class rooms and buildings without a parallel increase in funds for teachers to staff them. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many new science laboratories have been erected in (a) Government, (b) Catholic cand (c) other private schools in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth under the Commonwealth Secondary Science Facilities Scheme up to 31st December 1971 or the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
How many (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private secondary schools are there in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
What number and percentage of these have had 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more new science laboratories constructed under the Commonwealth scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Al what year of technical education in each State and Territory are students eligible for Commonwealth technical scholarships. 
What number and percentage of students (a) was enrolled at this level, (b) applied for scholarships and (c) was awarded scholarships in (i) Government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other private technical schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth in (I) the first year of operation of this scholarship scheme and (If) 1971. 
What sum has been expended (a) in each year and (b) in total since the scheme commenced, and what amount and percentage of these sums has been expended on (i) benefits, (ii) administration of the scheme and (iii) other purposes. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) numbers and (b) percentages of students in (i) each and (ii) all of the following schools (a) sat for or applied for and (b) were awarded (I) Commonwealth secondary scholarships, (II) Commonwealth university scholarships and (III) Commonwealth advanced education scholarships in (A) each and (B) all of the years since each scholarship scheme was introduced: 
I regret having to rise tonight to deal with this matter but I am afraid that the subject must be aired. What I want to deal with concerns a deliberate attempt by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  whom I informed that I intended to speak tonight, to preserve secrecy within his Department. The matter I raise concerns a letter that I sent to the Minister some 2 months ago asking for some very basic information that every person in this Parliament is entitled to have. It took weeks before I received any indication of when I would get a reply. I waited 2 months. All this time I was pressuring the Minister's office and asking when the reply was coming. 1 was informed on each occasion that the reply had been received by the Minister for Education and Science, sent over to the Department of Education and Science, come back and was again in the pipeline. This went on for 2 months. The question that I asked concerned the eligibility of each non-Catholic private school in Victoria for science and library grants - simple basic facts. As I have said, that information was denied me for 2 months. 
Last night I got the reply; the Minister refused to give the information.  His  reasons for doing so were specious. I woud like to add, to strengthen the charge made this morning by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who claimed that the Minister for Education and Science was deliberately gagging scientists in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation, that the Minister has deliberately withheld information from me for no reason whatsoever. I regard this as a very serious matter. I discussed it this morning with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  At this stage I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard my letter and the Minister's reply, together with a statement of the eligibility of the 8 old schools of the Ministers in the Cabinet for science and library grants. I discussed the incorporation of these documents with the Minister for Education and Science who is at the table and he is agreeable to this course. 
The Minister claims that his reason for denying me this information after 2 months is that I did not mention the names of the schools regarding which I required the information. Why should I? I asked him what was the eligibility of each non-Catholic private school in Victoria - each one of them. There are 67 such schools. Am I expected to write out the names of these 67 schools so that he can know which ones I am talking about? If I say 'each one' I mean each - the whole lot. The Minister has refused to give the information. He maintains, of course, that this is a party-political question. It is nothing of the kind. It is a simple request for information. 
What is most revealing about the Minister's motive in withholding the information is this: The information I sought is publicly available knowledge. Any person anywhere in Australia, no matter who he or she is, can ring up the Department of Education and Science and ask how much a certain school is entitled to. 
That is a good question. The answer to it is that I did do just that. However, my action put the official of the Department of Education and Science, a very co-operative person, in a most embarrassing position. He pointed out to me that had I not sent the letter to the Minister he would have been able to give me the information, but as I had sent the letter I could not get the information. The official said that I would have to wait for the information to come from the Minister through the normal channels. In other words, because I had taken the trouble to write a written letter he could not give me the information. It is incredible that any person in Australia can get that information except me. 
The other thing, of course, is this: The Minister not only sent my letter backwards and forwards to the Department of Education and Science 3 times and said: 'We are not going to give that information to the honourable member for Bendigo; I am too embarrassed by it. We will not release that information - the honourable member is not going to get it, but he has that very information in his office right now. He could obtain that information and table it. It is very simple information. I had asked what each of these grammar schools was entitled to, but he still would not give the information. He could not give all the information. As I had specified a small number of schools - old schools of Cabinet Ministers - he had to give me partial information only. That is an amazing thing for a government which is prepared to spend millions of dollars on science grants and library grants. At no stage is he prepared to say publicly what these schools are entitled to. I will give honourable members an example of why he is not prepared to give this information and why he has withheld it for so long. I will state the entitlements of the grammar schools attended by Cabinet Ministers. Eight of these schools, attended by 9 of the Ministers, are entitled to a total grant of $1,875,379 at least. 
No. This amount is just for science grants and library grants. They are entitled to almost $2m at least. I still cannot state their full entitlement because he has not given all the information yet. I will state their entitlements and honourable members will see why he has withheld this information: Melbourne Grammar, his old school, $142,000; Geelong Grammar, which is the old school of the former Prime Minister and the former Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Fairbairn,  Si 59,020; Wesley College, the former school of  Mr Nixon,  $34,242. Those are grants for which 1 have evidence up to 1974-75. Let us have a look at a few more.  Sir Reginald  Swartz's old school, Brisbane Grammar, is entitled to $520,684 in science grants and library grants. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware that the cost of storing the egg pulp resulting from the long failure of the Government to accelerate moves towards controlled production will be about $ 1.62m this year. If so, does the Government's offer of $750,000 for the egg industry represent less than half the storage cost alone? Did the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities this year request assistance to the value of $3. 5m to guarantee egg producers in Victoria a return on cost of production of 28c a dozen? Finally, why has the Government refused this assistance? Does this show that it is not prepared to offer a measure of security to producers in the period until the benefits of controlled production can be achieved, and that it is prepared to jeopardise the livelihood of hundreds of producers? 
I wish to call the attention of the Parliament to what I regard as a deliberate attempt by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to impose a blanket of secrecy over the information of the Department of Education and Science and deliberately to deny to members of this Parliament, myself in particular, information that otherwise would be available to almost any person in the entire community. I believe that his tactics, following last night's debate in this House, on another attempt to withhold information, are in line with the tactics he has been used in regard to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which were highlighted last week by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who pointed out that the Minister had in fact issued a directive that the CSIRO had to inform him in cases where scientists had been in communication with members of the Federal Parliament. 
Last week in a debate in this House I charged that the Minister had quite unjustifiably withheld information from me. For 2 months he kept me waiting for information that I had a right to have. He gave me no indication in the meantime that this information would not be provided. He gave me no indication in the meantime that, had I adopted the method that he later outlined, I could have received that information. He kept me waiting for 2 months and I still have not received the information. As I pointed out last week, I protested to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  but nothing has been done so far. Following a debate in the Parliament last week, the Minister for Education and Science now has thrown a blanket of secrecy over the operations of the Department of Education and Science. He has issued a directive to the officers of this Department that when I telephone and ask for information on education matters they are not to provide it to me; they are to instruct me to direct my question to the Minister for Education and Science himself. I ask the Minister whether this gag in fact applies only to me or whether it applies to all members of the Federal Parliament. Does it refer only to that particular section of the Department to which he knows I am referring or does it affect all of his department? 
What he basically is trying to do is to withhold information that formerly I was able to receive by telephoning the Department. Within the bounds of what was publicly available, certain types of information were provided to me. This information referred particularly to the sums of money that certain private schools were entitled to under the Commonwealth science grants scheme and under the Commonwealth libraries scheme. This information was formerly available to me. The Minister now has given an instruction that this information is no longer to be available to me; I must contact the Minister first of all. What is his purpose in doing this?  His  purpose is to withhold informa tion and delay it in such a way that I can get that information only when he pleases. 
I refer now to question No. 5360 which I asked 5 months ago in the Parliament. Last week the Minister for Education and Science replied to only a section of that question. The question sought basic information and it took 5 months for me to receive a reply. Last week, the Minister informed the House that he had sufficient staff in his department to answer only the questions of 2 people - myself and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - and he made it quite clear that in those cases where both of us asked questions, precedence is to be given to questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer now to another situation which is typical of his delay. On 10th May this year I asked question No. 5783, a very simple question indeed. It would not have taken his Department more than a few weeks at the very most to provide that information. The question asked for details about certain private schools which had been requested by the Minister to provide information as to what their needs were within a given period. It was a very simple question. Those schools had refused to provide him with the information. A period of Simonths has now passed. Question No. 5783 is still unanswered. Three weeks ago - again after continual pressure from me - the Minister wrote me a letter saying that the information would be provided in the first week of the Budget session. It is now the second week of the Budget session. Perhaps the information will be forthcoming again after the election. 
A very basic principle is involved here: A member of Parliament has, as his task, to defend public interest. It is our task to watch over what governments are doing with public money. There are two ways in which that information can be provided by the Government itself - through the Department or through the Minister. The Minister now has cut off that source of information through the Department. It must come directly through him. Of course, he can then manipulate the supply of information as he sees fit. In other words, what the Minister is doing is deliberately depriving a member of Parliament of the right to carry out his function; he is preventing a member of Parliament from getting information which is absolutely essential to that member of Parliament to enable him to scrutinise the use of the public's money. 
As I have pointed out previously in this House, some of the things on which I have sought information are matters which have caused very great embarrassment to the Minister. I have said a number of things which the Minister has not had the courage to come out and defend publicly. He says nothing. He runs to his burrow.  His  answer is to say nothing and to withhold the information. The cases about which I am talking relate to private schools which have full entitlement to very large sums of public money, reaching up to more than $500,000 in the case of the Methodist Ladies College at Kew for library grants and science grants. The Minister now is trying to withhold this information. Obviously, he simply has not got the courage to provide this information. He will provide it at the time when he sees fit. 
I intend to go on raising these matters. I regard his behaviour as autocratic and unprincipled. I find it totally obnoxious. I will continue to raise these matters in this House until I get the information to which I am entitled in this Parliament. 
I will not go into too much detail on some of the points raised by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I always find it curious when conservative members of Parliament who send their children to some of the wealthiest private schools come out and gush and pine about the wealthy school? and say that they are doing all they can to provide the best facilities for the nation. It is almost ludicrous. It is incredible. One really wonders whether they live in the same world as most Australian people when they talk about subsidies to the rich private schools being aimed at ensuring that the children of all income sections of the community are able to go to these wealthy schools. After all, what are they talking about? They are talking about schools that charge anything up to $1,000 a year in fees. One can just imagine the tumult from all those children from working class and migrant families when Melbourne Grammar drops its fees from $1,050 a year to $1,025 a year or when Geelong Grammar drops its fees from $1,000 a year to $950 a year. Of course, those are the schools they are always worrying about! I am sure that the honourable member for Deakin who has just resumed his seat is one of those people who has displayed his lack of confidence in the state education system by sending his children to the schools he is so busily financing here today. 
However, I am primarily concerned about life in country areas and, in particular, about the very serious problem of unemployment that has been created by this Government's policy and that is being deliberately left untouched by this Government's policy. I can see nothing in this Budget that is aimed at relieving the very severe problem of unemployment in country areas. I can see nothing in this Budget about decentralisation that is aimed at producing a whole programme for reviving country areas. There is nothing like that in this Budget. In recent times unemployment in country areas has been getting very severe. For example, in Victoria the number of people registered as unemployed in non-metropolitan areas increased by 31 per cent this July over July of last year. The number of registered unemployed rose from 6,865 to 8,996. The number of people receiving unemployment benefits also reflected a very dramatic increase of 53 per cent from 2,824 in July last year to 4,321 in July this year. Of course, those figures themselves do not disclose the actual situation because the Government has disguised unemployment by its rural unemployment relief scheme. I am not criticising that scheme. If one tries to create unemployment, as this Government has done so effectively and on such a large scale, then at least one does something when one gives people some sort of a job - even if it is only a pick and shovel job that is given to one in every 5 of the people who are unemployed in rural areas. 
The point is that basically this Government, by providing this money, has tried to buy votes and to disguise unemployment which this Government has created. If we include the number of people who are getting unemployment relief work with those registered as unemployed, the situation is far worse. On that basis the number of registered unemployed rose from 6,815 last year to 11,564 this year. In other words, there is a disguised unemployment level in country areas. It has increased by 68.4 per cent over the last 12-month period. That is something of which the Government is not at all ashamed and it is something about which this Government is going to do nothing. We have some assurance that rural unemployment relief will continue because, after all, the conditions which have created the need for it will continue. But for how long will it continue? This is a cynical Government. Supposing that this Government is returned to office in November, how long can we guarantee that this rural unemployment relief scheme will continue? At least it is giving work to one in 5 of those people who are unemployed in country areas. 
In my own electorate I feel this unemployment very seriously. People come to my office in Bendigo time and time again and ask me: 'Can you get us a job?' I ask them: Have you been to the Commonwealth Employment Service in Bendigo?' They say: Yes, of course, but there are hundreds on the waiting list there'. This is typical of the situation in country areas throughout Australia. There is nothing that I can do. I try. I try to make contact with the employers. I try to make contact with the Employment Service, but there is no work. We have a desperate situation. 
For example, in Bendigo about .25 per cent of the people who are receiving unemployment benefits are people who have been receiving them for more than 6 months and these are people who are just left to rot in the countryside. There is no hope of rehabilitation for them. They cannot go to the city, which is the only place where they can get the retraining necessary. So they are asked to lie around the countryside with no work - which they want to have - to live on this miserly unemployment benefit and to keep their families living in poverty just because they cannot get jobs. 
Nothing has been done about decentralisation. The situation in Bendigo is that there has been a rather dramatic increase in unemployment over the 12-month period from July last year when there were 608 registered unemployed to July this year when the number of registered unemployed was 814 - an increase of 34 per cent. There has been a 59 per cent increase in the number of people receiving unemployment benefits from 258 people last year to 411 people this year. That is an indication of continual unemployment. 
In another part of my electorate, the Seymour employment district, there has been a 92 per cent increase in the number of people receiving unemployment benefits. This is a very serious situation. There is nothing in this Budget, as I see it, that will restore confidence among the people who make the basic economic decisions in this country. Most importantly of all, there is nothing in this Budget that will seriously tackle the chronic lack of credit facilities which rural producers need. Until the large scale problem of rural indebtedness has been tackled there will be no revival of the countryside. It is a most disturbing situation. In my opinion rural credit is the key to rural stability. This has been found in western European countries, in the United Kingdom and in North America. But in Australia we are still fiddling around with election eve sops tossed out in the form of $20m to the farmers on the pretence that the Government is doing something about rural stability and the chronic problem of rural indebtedness when in fact it is not doing any such thing. 
It has been there for years and it is getting worse under your Government. Let us take a look at the rural reconstruction scheme. What a sham it is! It was introduced in May 1971. It is going very badly. Large numbers of farmers are being rejected when under a better financing system they would be regarded as efficient and viable farmers. Some of them are very good farmers who have fallen on very bad times and fallen into a situation where the availability of credit is artificially limited by the strings that this Government has attached to the grants to the State reconstruction authorities. For example, in Victoria there is now only enough money left in the State's reconstruction fund to reconstruct the debts and build up the farms of about 400 farmers. That is in the entire State of Victoria. When those 400 farmers have had their debts reconstructed and their farms built up by acquiring other properties, all the money will have run out. What will happen after that we do not know. I suppose there will be another meeting. There is a meeting every few months because the scheme was never planned as an effective and continuing programme. 
At the present time the Victorian Government has something like $29. 8m to use for reconstruction purposes in Victoria. Already $19. 6m has been used. The money is so short in Victoria that at the end of July about 74 per cent of all farmers who applied for debt reconstruction were being rejected. In other words, for every farmer who was lucky enough to be accepted for a loan for debt reconstruction 3 were being rejected. This is the worst situation in the entire Commonwealth. I have done some calculations which suggest that by July 1973, on the funds available at the present time, the Victorian Government will have helped about 1,200 farmers under the Commonwealth rural reconstruction scheme. So far it has helped about 800. In other words, the great achievement of this Government is to give financial assistance to 1.5 per cent of all farmers - owners, lessees and share farmers - in the State of Victoria. The assistance that will have been given by July next year will have helped to cope with 7 per cent of the $41 lm debt which was the gross rural debt as calculated in 1970. Honourable members on the other side of the House say that this situation is due to the change in the electorate representative. In fact it has happened because there has not been a change of government. 
The situation throughout Australia is a serious one. At the end of July about 64 per cent of all farmers who applied for assistance with debt reconstruction were rejected. Of those who applied for assistance in the States for farm build-up, 59 per cent were rejected. So far the State governments have committed $76m or 61 per cent of the money that is available to them for this purpose. About $ 124.5m is available. In other words, there is not a great deal of money left to meet the needs of farmers. How many more can be helped throughout the Commonwealth of Australia? I calculate that, on the present basis of an average $24,000 debt reconstruction loan, about 1,833 farmers can be assisted. Probably about 444 farmers can be assisted with farm build-up. In other words, by the middle of next year, when all this money has been expended, a total of about 5,000 farmers will have received assistance under the Commonwealth rural reconstruction scheme - about 2.5 per cent of the nation's 200,000 farm owners, farm lessees and share farmers. 
No significant impact is being made on the colossal problem of rural indebtedness, which was calculated to be about $2, 100m as at the middle of last year. The money that will have been made available by the middle of next year will cope with only about 5 per cent of that debt, which is one of the basic reasons why there is this continuing stagnation in the countryside. Yet the Commonwealth Government is pouring this money into rural unemployment relief, although one would have to say that on the whole it is not being used as efficiently as it could be if it were put into reconstructing the debts of farmers so that they could return to viability and so that they could get the economy of the country areas moving again. Money is being wasted for the purely dogmatic and political purposes of this Government. 
We will come to that. The honourable member might like to join in the debate. He might like to come out in public and debate the point. If he did, he would be the first one on that side of the chamber to do so. A few more aspects of the rural reconstruction scheme are most disturbing. The rehabilitation part of it is supposed to have been a major social welfare step in rural reconstruction. It was supposed to have been a great achievement of this Government. Apart from lengthening the period of the farm build up loan the sole achievement was to increase the amount available for a person for rehabilitation from $1,000 to $3,000. That move in April last was quite an achievement. All that  Mr Borthwick,  the poor old Victorian Minister for Lands - a Liberal - could find to say about the changes made in April was that the new S3.000 loan goes further to recognising a social problem. What an achievement! In Victoria by the end of July 3 farmers had been offered rehabilitation loans of $3,000 each. I suppose that is quite good for the Liberal Party. Throughout the Commonwealth, 51 farmers had been approved for rehabilitation assistance of $3,000, yet we know that in Victoria alone hundreds of farmers are being forced off the land. Throughout the Commonwealth thousands of farmers are being squeezed off their properties. What is happening to them? They are getting no assistance from this scheme.  
Let us have a look at another of the Government's fundamental approaches to the problem of reconstructing agriculture. I refer to farmer retraining. By July this year about 70 farmers had been approved for retraining throughout Australia. In Victoria the number rose dramatically to 23. Earlier this year when the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and I raised these problems the Minister, said that everything was going very Well.  So  it was going very well - by this Government's standards. Only 23 farmers were approved for assistance in Victoria yet there are abou.. 200,000 farmers of various kinds throughout the Commonwealth. A study of the Budget papers will show how much was allocated for 1971-72 for the retraining of farmers and employees. Only 9 per cent of the amount allocated was actually spent in 12 months. Yet this Government is going to the farming population and saying that it is genuinely concerned about their needs. 
This Government is based purely and simply on materialism. It has no concern for the social and spiritual welfare of the people of this nation. It is continuing the disastrous series of blunders and mistakes. One that comes to mind is the women's retraining scheme. In Victoria after the scheme had operated for 18 months 111 women were being retrained. What a fantastic effort! Probably about 20,000 women should have been eligible for retraining. Let us look again at the retraining scheme for employees who have been superseded by technological change. When the honourable member for Kingston raised this matter a few months ago he discovered that the amazing number of 2 employees throughout the entire Commonwealth bad been offered retraining under this scheme. Is the Government really serious? What does it care about? Does it really care about the human wellbeing of the people it is supposed to represent? Of course not. It cares only about profits and prices. It is based on utter and undiluted materialism. 
Let us also consider the new programme to deal with rural indebtedness. This is the Liberal Party at work. The sum of $20m is all that it can offer so far to the Australian farming population to tackle the fantastic problem of rural indebtedness totalling about 8200m. One can only conclude that it is a hoax on country people aimed at dressing up a last minute election gimmick. It is not a genuine solution to the chronic problem of rural indebtedness. In fact, that $20m is the only sum that has been guaranteed for assistance to farmers. When it is shared out amongst the States Victoria will receive about $3.3m. At present the average debt reconstruction loan in Victoria is about $25,000. In other words a few simple statistics show that this scheme in Victoria will provide assistance for about 130 farmers. Perhaps this is not so unbelievable because it is par for the course for this Government. 
I repeat that the only guaranteed sum available so far is $20m and of that amount Victoria's share is likely to be about $3. 3m. On the current rate of loans in Victoria for reconstructing farm debts under the rural reconstruction scheme this trifling sum will provide loans for only an extra 1 30 farmers in the entire State. In Victoria so far about 1,600 farmers have had rejected their applications for reconstruction of their debts. Unless further moneys are added the sum guaranteed will provide loans for only 8 per cent of the 1,600 farmers who have been rejected so far. To cater only for the 1,600 farmers who have already been denied debt relief would require not an extra $3. 3m, not even the sum of $20m provided for the whole Commonwealth, but an extra $40m for Victoria alone. 
The new programme will not get within a bull's roar of tackling the problem, but of course it is not really supposed to do so. lt is interesting to study the politics behind the scheme. It is an election eve gimmick dreamed up the night before. Things are not done in haste in the Liberal Party - the conservative party. They are done 2 months before the election. That is the measure of its concern for the welfare of the farmers. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made a statement and later the Liberal Party made a statement. Obviously some very bitter divisions exist within the coalition parties over this matter. For example, the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been publicly advocating a new and separate bank while the Prime Minister is insisting that the money should be provided through the Development Bank. The Prime Minister has said that if there is to be a new bank it should be the product of co-operation between the private trading banks, the pastoral finance companies and similar bodies. But  Mr Anthony  wants to have a glittering new institution for the farmers that he can call a rural credit bank. 
This proposal for a new bank will go the same way as the Government's 1969 election promise to set up a rural loans insurance corporation to guarantee more long term low interest rate loans. Few honourable members will recall that offer in 1969. The proposal was scrapped after the election and has not been heard of since. I believe that the Commonwealth Bank should be strengthened and expanded to provide more facilities for farmers. A national reconstruction authority should be established so that there can be co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in a joint planned programme of reconstruction and rehabilitation for the whole of the countryside. Until we tackle the basic problem of rural indebtedness I do not believe that there will be any significant move towards abolishing the disturbing level of unemployment in country areas. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did his Department, since September 1970, send invitations to every non-Catholic private school throughout Australia to submit the relevant data necessary for the survey of the needs of non-Government schools. 
Did the final summary of this survey which was tabled in Parliament on 5 th October 1971 show that the relevant data was not provided by certain non-Government schools. 
Did the summary also show that the schools that did not supply the data had 44 per cent of the total primary enrolments of the nonCatholic private schools and 31 per cent of the total secondary enrolments of these schools. 
How many non-Catholic private schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth were asked by his Department to take part in the survey of independent school needs. 
What was the total enrolment at (a) primary and (b) secondary level in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of enrolments at (i) primary and (ii) secondary level in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth of (I) that group of schools which did supply his Department with data and (II) that group of schools which did not provide the data requested. 
What were the names of the non-Catholic private schools in each State and Territory which were invited to provide data but did not do so. 
What grounds did those non-Catholic private schools which did not supply. the requested data give for not taking part in the survey, of their needs. 
Following the failure of these schools to provide- by 22nd February 1971 an account of their needs, did his Department again contact the schools and renew the request to provide details. 
Does the refusal of these schools to take part in the survey indicate that schools which are already receiving substantial assistance in public funds from the Commonwealth Government are not in fact in need either of the assistance that they are already receiving or of the future offers of assistance; if not, what does it indicate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister bring up to date the information sought in question No. 4625, placed on the Notice Paper on 3rd November 1971, concerning the operation of the subsidised health benefits scheme, by providing similar figures as at 30th December 1971. 
What increase or decrease in (a) numbers and (b) percentages do these figures and percentages represent in comparison with details as at 30th September 1971. 
asked  the Minister  for  Education  and Science, upon  notice: 
How many (a) primary students, (b) secondary students and (c) students of both categories are there in (i) each and (ii) all of the schools for which details have been sought in Question No. 5360. 
What sum has been paid by the Commonwealth to (a) each and (b) all of these schools in per capita grants up to 31st December 1971. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did  the  Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia on 25th May 1972 seek Commonwealth assistance  to  guarantee egg producers  a  return of their cost of production. 
If  so, was  a guaranteed  return  of 28c  per  dozen sought. 
Would  a  guarantee  at  this rate require  a  grant from the Commonwealth of $3,500,000. 
Did he state on 23rd August 1972 (Hansard, page 549) that the basis on which the Government made its judgment to offer 8750,000 to the egg industry was the provision for growers of the return per dozen which they asked for. 
If so, why has he chosen not to support the egg marketing authorities' call for a guaranteed return on their cost of production. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the number and percentage of processed applications for (a) debt reconstruction, (b) farm build-up and (c) rehabilitation in (i) each Slate and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth that were (A) approved and (B) rejected by 31st July 1972. 
What were the average levels of loans ot each kind in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What sum was available for reconstruction under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth, and what amount and percentage of this had been (i) committed and (ii) advanced by 31st July 1972 or the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
On what increase in numbers and percentages at (a) primary and (b) secondary level in (i) Catholic schools and (ii) other private schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) the Commonwealth between 1971 and 197S were the statements of their financial needs, as set out in the summarised survey that he tabled on 5th October 1971, based. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the means test for eligibilityof low income families for the subsidised health benefits scheme when the scheme first came into operation. 
What was the (a) Commonwealth minimum wage as defined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (b) minimum wage in each State as defined by the State wage-fixing authority at that time. 
On what dates was the means test for the scheme subsequently altered, and what was the new income allowable after each alteration. 
On what dates were the minimum wages in the Commonwealth and States subsequently altered, and what was the new minimum wage in each case. 
For how long has the present means test for the scheme been in operation, and how much lower is this figure than the minimum wage now operating in the Commonwealth and each State. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation; upon notice: 
How many women were in receipt of war widows pensions in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth as at 30th June 1971. 
What numbers and percentages of these (a) applied for training, (b) were accepted for training, (c) were rejected for training,(d) commenced training, (e) completed training and (0 were placed in employment (i) with and (ii) without training during 1971 under the war widows' training scheme. 
In what year was the scheme introduced. 
How many widows (a) applied for, (b) were accepted for, (c) were rejected for and (d) completed training in  (i)  each and (ii) all years since it started. 
What are the various types of benefits and assistance which are available to widows who are accepted for retraining. 
What sum was (a) allocated and (b) spent in (i) 1970-71 and (ii) 1971-72 in respect of (A) each and of all the types of benefits and assistance and (B) other costs of the scheme. 
What was the (a) average age of widows accepted for training in 1970-71 and (b) the number of children dependent on each widow. 
What number and percentage of widows accepted in 1970-71 for retraining in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth received each type of benefit and assistance referred to in part (5). 
What were the (a) types and duration of courses of training undertaken, (b) the number and percentage of widows undertakingthe courses and (c) the types of institutions at which training was undertaken in 1970-71. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many of the applications for debt reconstruction under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act in each State and the Commonwealth that were (a) processed, (b) approved and (c) rejected in July 1972 had been previously submitted and rejected (i) once, (ii) twice, (iii) three times and (iv) more than three times. 
1 direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission intend to scrap the children's programme 'Adventure Island'? If so, why? Is this programme not the finest children's television programme available in Australia? ls it not also in all senses wholesome and educationally stimulating to children? Will the Minister consult with the Commission to reverse the decision? Will he endeavour to expand the whole range of educational television programmes offered by Australians for Australian children? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth accept a responsibility to pay the total reasonable cost of science laboratories constructed in private schools under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act. 
How many (a) science laboratories and (b) other kinds of science accommodation did the Commonwealth agree to finance under its Science Laboratories Scheme in (i) the Combined Boys' and Girls' Senior Catholic High School at Wagga and (ii) Somerville House Presbyterian and Methodist Schools' Association High School for Girls, Brisbane. 
In what years were (a) the plans for the accommodation approved by the Commonwealth and (b) the accommodation built in each case. 
What were the (a) dimensions of the accommodation approved for payment by the Commonwealth and (b) the amounts that the Commonwealth agreed to pay for the accommodation in each case. 
What was the sum per square foot that the Commonwealth agreed to pay for the accommodation in each case. 
By what percentage is one sum per square foot higher than the other and what is the reason for the difference. 
What payments have been made to date to each school for the accommodation and in what years were these payments made. 
What is the balance to be paid for (a) all the accommodation and (b) equipment, and when will it be paid. 
How is the concept of total reasonable cost defined and applied. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What number and percentage of pupils at (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private schools in (i) each State and Territory and(ii) the Commonwealth (A) were eligible for Commonwealth secondary scholarships (B) sat for the scholarship examination and (C) were awarded scholarships in 1972. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In what way will housing for Army personnel be improved through the $10m, which he stated on 5th April 1972, would be spent on improving this housing. 
What plans are there to use portion of this sum on Army housing at (a) Puckapunyal, (b) Bendigo and (c) Monegeeta. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the (a) quantity and (b) value of feed wheat (i) sold within Australia and (ii) exported in each year and in total from 1969-70 to the latest date for which figures are readily available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many applications were received for retraining in the (a) retraining scheme for persons displaced by technological change and (b) rural reconstruction training scheme in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth by 31st July 1972. 
How many of these applications had been processed and what number and percentage of them had been (a) accepted and (b) rejected. 
What number and percentage of (a) those applying and (b) those accepting (i) commenced training, (ii) completed training and (iii) were found employment. 
Why have (a) only 8 per cent of the funds allocated in 1971-72 for the retraining scheme for persons displaced by technologial change and (b) only 9 per cent of the funds allocated for rural reconstruction retraining been used. 
Why have these schemes failed and what measures are being taken to make them work. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What number and percentage of (a) science laboratories constructed in government schools in (i) each State and (ii) the Commonwealth from Commonwealth funds and (b) science teaching Tooms provided in government schools from State funds di 'he period 1964 to 1971 were built to the same standards that the Commonwealth insists on for science accommodation built in private schools with Commonwealth funds. (Question No. 5883, Hansard, 16th August 1972, page 323). 
I would like to make a few comments in reply to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)- 
Quite right; I am not in a position to know these things as well as is the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  My colleague the honourable member for Adelaide points out that the honourable member for Boothby, as is his usual form, has made a great number of scurrilous attacks on the advertising agency of Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson and on its South Australian manager,  Mr Geoff  Huntley and others. I challenge the honourable member for Boothby to make his comments outside the House. That would be the test of the credibility of the honourable member. I point out one thing that the honourable member for Boothby said, namely, that  Mr Huntley  had recently been appointed a trustee of the Savings Bank of South Australia. The fact is that  Mr Huntley  has been a trustee of that bank since 1966. The honourable member for Adelaide has informed me of this. He further has told me that  Mr Huntley  has played a major role in improving the entire image of the Savings Bank of South Australia. This is just one example of the scurrilous nonsense of the honourable member for Boothby. Those facts have been passed on to me by the honourable member for Adelaide who, like myself, is concerned at the attacks that the honourable member for Boothby has been making. 
I am concerned primarily to deal with the Bill now before the House, the States Grants Bill (No. 2), particularly that section which allocates SI 3. 34m between 1972 and 1973 for State school building purposes. This section of the Bill is part of the whole pattern of this Government's discrimination against State schools. It is yet another stage in the era of the portable classroom, the mobile slum - of portable poverty and of mobile squalor - that this Government and the State Government of Victoria are together inflicting upon students in government schools in that State. The proposed granting of a mere $13.34m to all the State school pupils in Australia is an act of overwhelming discrimination against them. It will maintain slum conditions in State schools throughout Australia for yet another 12 months. As I will point out later, I can see no significant improvement in school buildings, even after the stage when a larger grant has been at long last offered. The allocation of $20m, of which this Bill is part, offers a mere $10 a head to every one of the 2 million State primary and secondary pupils throughout Australia. This is an insult to their parents and it is an insult to those pupils that they have been singled out for victimisation by the Government, particularly when it is pointed out that, under the Bill for independent schools which was passed earlier this year, primary pupils at private schools are entitled to $50 a head and those at the secondary level are entitled to $68 a head. 
It always seems to be necessary at this stage to point out that, in fact, I welcome the assistance that is given to those private schools that need it. I am not criticising that at all. I can see schools in my electorate where I welcome the assistance that is being given. But I will not remain silent in this Parliament while assistance is being given to one sector of the school community and is being denied to another. It is the continual discrimination that this Government shows to pupils at government schools that disturbs me most of all. It is interesting to look at the $20m that has been promised - of which a part has been paid - to State schools in 1972-73 and to observe that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who announced this measure in the House, actually claimed that this grant was being made in the light of the survey of needs carried out by the 6 State governments. 
It is very interesting to compare the survey of needs conducted by the 6 State governments with a survey of needs that the Minister conducted. The first point is that the survey of needs conducted by the State governments was finished in February 1970. The survey pointed out that there would be a colossal gap between the funds that they would have and the funds that they would need. There is still no indication that this need is being met on any significant scale by this Government. In fact, the survey as it was published was almost immediately rubbished by the Minister for Education and Science. He claimed almost immediately that the figures were spurious and suspicious and that, in any case, some States were being excessive in trying to reduce their ratio of pupils to staff to the level which he accepts as being normal in the sort of private schools that he fosters so deliberately by his policy. His own survey of the needs of private schools was probably the worst survey ever carried out by any government department on anything. A large section of the private schools in the non-Catholic sector which were asked for details of their requirements for the 1971-75 period simply refused point-blank to take part in the survey. They refused to give the Minister any information whatsoever of what their needs were. Another substantial section, although given 7 months to submit information, was not able to do so. 
In my opinion this is an indication that there is a substantial sector in the private school education system that is extremely affluent and has no need for any further grant from the Commonwealth Government whatsoever. They were quite unprepared to provide the Minister for Education and Science with a statement of their needs. Even the survey of the handicapped children's schools, which could have been done efficiently, was also a monumental shambles. Recently the Minister replied to  a  statement that I had made about the number of schools in the private sector that had not taken part in his survey. He very promptly replied that I had overlooked the handicapped children's schools that also had not supplied him with evidence. The chronic thing about his survey of the needs of handicapped children is that only  20  per cent of all the schools in the private handicapped sector that was circularised replied. In other words, the information that he has about the needs of one of the most deprived sectors of the school community accounts for only  20  per cent of those schools. It is not surprising that the Minister took no further trouble, that he did not include their survey among the finalised survey of needs. It is not surprising that he did nothing about their requirements because he is not concerned about the needs of the handicapped. 
It is interesting to notice just how helpful the Commonwealth Government is in its education grants to the schools for the handicapped. For example, the  2  private preparatory schools which feed pupils into Melbourne Grammar, the Minister for Education and Science's old school - namely Wadhurst Preparatory and Grimway House - between them get more in per capita grants than all that is given to handicapped children in the entire State of Victoria. These  2  schools between them last year received a total of  $31,000  in per capita grants from the Commonwealth Government whereas the schools of handicapped children throughout Victoria received only  $24,000.  That is an indication of just how sincere the present Government is about handicapped children. 
This was an area that could have been handled very effectively. The Senate Select Committee on Health and Welfare which looked at the subject of handicapped people indicated that there was a great need for clear statistical data on the numbers and needs of handicapped people. This need could have been met very simply by the Minister's own survey of private schools. However, it was not. 
Most significantly, leaving out of account those handicapped persons schools to which I have just referred, a very large sector of the wealthier private schools, usually referred to as grammar schools and colleges, simply did not take part in the survey. A total of  140  of those schools out of  294  non-Catholic grammar schools, colleges and schools simply either did not submit details to the Minister for his survey of the needs of private schools in  1970-71  or they did so only after  7  months had elapsed. 
I put a question on notice to the Minister for Education and Science and asked whether he would mind informing the public of Australia as to the schools which did not supply him with information. The Minister refused to provide the information as he regarded this as being a matter of confidence between himself and the particular schools, which I regard as being a rather flippant justification for maintaining secrecy in an area where millions of dollars of public money are being spent on schools that simply do not need it. 
I think that the public has a right to know the names of the schools which are receiving such substantial sums from the Commonwealth Government and under the new scheme of aid to private schools will receive even more than they have received so far. The Minister maintains that this is a matter of confidence. This sounds very much like the Ethos of the old school tie network. It is apparently a private and confidential arrangement between the Minister for Education and Science and these schools. If the Minister wants to spend half a million dollars on them then that is apparently not the business of the Australian people who are footing the bill! 
When I asked for the reasons why such a large number of these high schools either did not take part in the survey of needs or did so only after  7  months, the Minister said that he would not speculate. The Minister added that a handful of schools gave as the reason for not joining in the survey of their needs the fact that they were suffering from staffing difficulties. This is just too childish to be believable. It is a commentary on the secrecy that has developed in this Government and its irresponsibility when handling large sums of public money that the Minister for Education and Science can actually make the statement that there is a handful of schools which say that staffing difficulties prevented them from telling the Commonwealth Government how much they needed. 
Frankly, any school in my electorate, be it a high school or a Catholics school, that was asked a simple question of how much money they needed would have an answer ready and back to the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science by airmail within 7 days. The problem is that serious. I simply believe that a school that cannot tell the Commonwealth Government what its needs are after being given 7 months to do so obviously is a school that does not need money at all. 
I would like to look at the survey of the needs of private schools and deal with the question of whether there are in fact such things as rich schools. The Minister for Education and Science always refers to affluent schools as 'so-called affluent schools'. I maintain that there are very clearly affluent schools. They are not merely schools that are attended by children from affluent parents as representatives of the independent schools associations said on television last night. They are in fact also schools that are affluent. An examination of the statistics supplied by these private schools in 1970-71 to the Minister for Education and Science in his survey of needs of private schools will confirm very clearly that there is a very substantial sector in the non-Roman Catholic schools that actually have surplus funds that they simply do not know what to do with. For example, an examination of the survey of needs of private schools conducted by the Minister shows that between the period 1971-75, in which their needs were surveyed, there is a group of nonCatholic private schools that actually have a surplus of $12.9m. This amount is based on the figures supplied by those schools which told the Minister what their needs were. Looking at the figures, one can see in black and white that there is a group of non-Catholic private schools that actually have a surplus of $ 12.9m. That is an absolutely conservative surplus because it does not take into account increases in fees and in per capita grants by State and Commonwealth governments since 1970, when the survey was taken out. 
There is a group of schools which, as we know, did not take part in the survey of needs. Assuming that they have at least the same amount of surplus per pupil - that is $181 - as those that did supply a statement of their needs, we can add an extra $7. 5m. In other words, we can say that within probably at least half of the non-Catholic private schools throughout Australia there is a surplus of S20m. Those, in other words, are wealthy schools. How wealthy are they? With that $20m we could build 20 new secondary schools or 40 new primary schools. The wealth of these nonCatholic private schools is that significant. However, it is that significant that it is being completely ignored by the Federal Government and those schools will again come in for very substantial Commonwealth assistance if this Government is returned after the next election. 
The Minister has not chosen to name the schools which did not take part in his survey of needs, but 1 am confident that they would include Shore, Sydney Grammar and Kambala. I am sure that Knox at Wahroonga would also be among the schools that are so wealthy that they did not apply for aid. Also included would be Melbourne Grammar and Scotch in Melbourne as well as Wesley, Carey and Geelong Grammar. It would most certainly include St Peters in Adelaide which is a prodigiously wealthy school. It would probably also include Brisbane Grammar and some of the high fee charging schools in the other States. Just looking at the State of Victoria, I have calculated that probably about half of the non-Catholic private schools actually have about $9. 19m more than they can use. This is based on an estimate from the figures supplied by these schools to the Minister. 
Of those schools that took part in his nationwide survey of needs of private schools, in Victoria there is a sector of the non-Catholic private schools that has a surplus of S6.34m. Those that did not take part have a surplus, on a most conservative estimate, of $2.85m. In other words, we have schools there that have a total surplus that they cannot use between 1971 and 1975 of about $2m. In simple terms, that means that over a 5-year period these schools already have at least about $231 surplus per pupil, and these are the schools that are coming in for substantial grants from this Commonwealth Government regardless of how wealthy they are. The wealth that those schools in Victoria possess is sufficient to build 9 brand new secondary schools or 18 primary schools. If that money were used in the state sector alone or the Catholic sector, it could bulldoze and demolish some of the decaying and antiquated inner suburban and country schools where children from working class and migrant families are suffering under the most squalid physical conditions. They are being taught in conditions that simply should not be tolerated in an affluent country like Australia. Yet this is the situation they have to put up with in Victoria. 
I would like to give just one example of how discriminatory is this grant of such a small amount- -$20m - to government schools throughout Australia. The way to see just how flagrantly class biased is this Government is to compare the needs of 3 different schools. I would say that the Methodist Ladies College at Kew and the Xavier Colleges at Kew and Brighton in Victoria are not poor schools. I would say that on the whole their facilities are amongst the finest in the State; I would say that their ratio of pupils to staff is amongst the finest; I would say that their accommodation is amongst the finest. The Methodist Ladies College at Kew is charging up to $700 per pupil. These are schools that are well established, well appointed, well accommodated and well staffed. I would say that they are the schools that should be last on the waiting list for handouts from the Commonwealth Government. 
Let us see what they have been promised or what they have received. The Methodist Ladies College at Kew has qualified for a total Commonwealth grant of $542,000. That includes $196,000 to build, equip and stock a brand new library - which would probably be big enough to suit a whole community in a country area - plus $346,000 in laboratory grants which should build at least 12 brand new laboratories. The Methodist Ladies College at Kew has over $500,000 in grants for which it is eligible. Xavier College is eligible for grants totalling $267,106. This includes $185,293 for science grants and $81,813 for library grants. Compare this with the White Hills primary school in my electorate which a number of children from the St Luke's Toddlers Home in White Hills attend. Many of the children from the St Luke's Toddlers Home are from broken families. They are disadvantaged children. They are children who urgently need remedial teaching. The White Hills primary school staff is doing its best to give them just that remedial teaching. 
Unfortunately, the conditions under which this is provided are far from attractive. The children are taken out of the school, because of lack of space in the primary school itself, and are sent to the White Hills reading room nearby. The school pays $3 a week out of its $1,000 a year in general purpose grant from the State Government to hire the White Hills reading room. This school has the clearest demand for extra accommodation from the State Government for these children who urgently need assistance. It has not the slightest hope over the next 5 years of receiving any assistance, to build even as much as a portable classroom with grants from the State Government because the State Government says that there are too few children there and, in any case, there are areas of colossal need which must be met before the needs of the White Hills primary school and the children of the St Luke's Toddler's Home. I regard it as an act of discrimination against under privileged children like these that while such huge grants are being paid out to schools such as the Methodist Ladies College at Kew, which is receiving over $500,000, and to Xavier Colleges, which are receiving over $250,000 - to children who do not need a cent from the Commonwealth Government - we have these under privileged children attending the White Hills Primary School who are receiving nothing from the Commonwealth Government. This is part of the whole process of flagrant discrimination against those in need and, in particular, those at state schools. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That  the  question  be now  put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon - Minister for Education and Science) -  Mr Deputy Chairman,  1 suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 31st August be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, the Department of External Territories and the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the reply to question No. 5100 (Hansard, 30lh May 1972, pages 3293-4) which stated that arrangements were being made to post out, with child endowment cheques, notices outlining the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan and aimed to enrol more low income families in the Plan, were these notices only sent out on 1st, 15th and 29th August 1972. 
If so, why did this simple scheme of publicising the Plan take 3 months. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In what year was the Capital Aid Scheme introduced. 
On what terms and conditions is money made available to private schools in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory under the scheme. 
What is the name of each (a) Catholic and (b) other private (i) primary and (ii) secondary school in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
What is the student population of each school and of all schools in each category. 
For what purposes and in what sums has Commonwealth assistance been given to these schools under (a) this scheme and (b) any other scheme of assistance other than the secondary science facilities and libraries schemes. 
What suras have been provided to each and all of these schools for secondary (a) science facilities and (b) libraries. 
What total sum has been provided to each and all of these schools in per capita grants up to 31st December 1971. 
1 wish to raise a few points in relation to the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. First of all, I want to deal with the position of apple and pear growers. 1 am particularly concerned, however, wilh the position of the fruit growers in my own electorate, particularly those at Harcourt, because almost every single device in the form of assistance by the Federal Government and every measure of assistance provided by the State Government to apple and pear growers has been so limited as to be virtually useless to the people I represent. The problems facing the fruit growers in the Harcourt area have been very severe. There is a danger that the economy of the township of Harcourt as a whole will be effectively subverted by what is being allowed to happen in the fruit industry without assistance from the Commonwealth Government. There is a possibility that the town of Harcourt might eventually jus wither away. For example, there are now only about 64 fruit growers in the Harcourt area compared with about 104 in 1970. Men have been leaving the industry. They, have been transferring in some cases to other industries or they have been going off the land entirely and selling up their properties. 
Harcourt Co-op. Fruitgrowers Ltd which employs approximately 29 people has been in financial trouble itself for almost ail of the time that I have been representing the area. There is a danger that it could face more serious problems in the future. If these problems are not tackled by the Commonwealth Government very soon the future of the Harcourt district will be in jeopardy. In the past some of the problems affecting the Harcourt area have included continual frosts, hail storms, bush fires and a whole series of natural disasters. In spite of this the area has received very tittle assistance from the State or Commonwealth Governments. The hail storm which struck the area in December in particular did very extensive damage to the fri; 1 growers. Virtually no-one in the area was insured against hail damage because the type of insurance offered by private enterprise is so costly that it is not worth taking out the insurance. This has been one of the great difficulties, I think, for the apple and pear growers in Australia, that the Commonwealth and States have not found any means of providing insurance against natural disasters such as those I have mentioned. 
The stabilisation scheme that the Commonwealth introduced has been valuable; I am not saying that it has not. But it has not provided assistance on the scale that the industry requires. The increase under this Budget by 500,000 bushels of the maximum quantity of apples and pears which may attract the guaranteed payment again, has been useful but it is not of the scale nf assistance that the industry really requires. Recently the Harcourt growers put forward what I thought to be a well documented and well thought out plan of reconstruction for the area which was submitted through me to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  This proposal was rejected. So they have received no assistance in that regard either. Very few of the growers in the area have received any assistance through the rural reconstruction scheme. On the whole probably no more than a handful at the very most has received any assistance under that scheme. 
I have been informed by one grower that the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission in Victoria has been instructed by the Commonwealth Government that fruit growers are not to receive assistance through the Commonwealth rural reconstruction scheme. This has been very damaging to growers in the area. Recently one grower who had a very good property and good security applied for assistance under the farm build-up scheme in order to purchase a neighbouring orchard. Of course, he was knocked back. He had to obtain finance from a traditional lending source at twice the cost through the rural reconstruction scheme. 
The tree pulling compensation scheme, again, is of some assistance but it is too restricted. Virtually nobody in the Harcourt area has any chance of benefiting from this scheme. For many, of course, it came too late because they have just left their properties. For many others it is too restrictive because many of them, especially those affected by the series of natural disasters that has hit them, have taken extra employment outside their orchards and this, of course, has disqualified them from receiving assistance under the scheme. They are now receiving a major portion of their income from sources other than fruit growing. I would like to read an article from the .7-:-------- Times' which circulates in the Harcourt area. The issue of 16th August reported a meeting held on 15th August. It states: 
Last night orchardists met at Harcourt to discuss the latest Government proposal to help the fruitgrower - the Tree Pulling Scheme. 
This scheme recently announced by the Commonwealth Government was an offer to the States to assist sections of the fruit industry by providing compensation for the removal of fruit trees from orchards and compensation given, administered in Victoria by the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission. 
The compensation would encourage old trees to be taken out and enable the grower to diversify into an alternative activity or to leave the industry. 
However, after their second meeting on the subject the growers from Harcourt and district could noi find one of their number in the area who would be eligible. 
The scheme was considered from all angles. From a neglected orchard; from an orchard ready for development; and from an orchardist looking to diversify. But various requirements ruled out any from qualifying. 
If he has got another job, he is ruled out, even if his profitability is threatened, no matter what way it could not be seen by the growers how anyone could benefit by the tree pull scheme in Harcourt - considered generally to be in as difficult circumstances as anywhere in the fruit industry. 
So the big question was - just who will gain from it? 
The meeting ended at a late hour feeling disappointed, and hostile with the belief it was more of a political gesture. 
The report continues: 
It was said that the 'help' offered to growers so far, that of hail damage offers, rural reconstruction, and the present offer with the tree pull scheme, the amount of real help handed out had to growers had been infinitesimal. 
In addition, if a grower wanted to keep in the industry he would find it virtually impossible to re-plant and keep an income off an orchard if he could get tree pull compensation. 
That is a rather scathing condemnation of the scheme. Obviously there are people in that area who would appreciate the assistance that is being offered but the assistance does not go far enough. Generally speaking the exporters are not being assisted to overcome the problems facing them because of the refusal of the Government to introduce a single statutory marketing authority. We are not tackling the grave problem of rising costs of production and competition in our markets. One way we could describe the Government's proposal in regard to the apple and pear industry is that it allows the patient to get sick and once he is on the verge of death the Government helps to pay part of the cost of the aspro. The basic problems facing this industry are not being tackled. 
I would like to refer very briefly to the egg industry. There is gross over-production in this industry, not through any fault of the industry but because of a failure of State governments, particularly the Victorian Government, to agree on production controls on a nation-wide basis. There is vast over-production in the industry. It is estimated that to store 18,000 tons of egg pulp this year will cost about $1.7m. The assistance of $750,000 offered by the Government will be useful but it is not sufficient. The basic problem facing egg producers is that they need a guaranteed cost of production of 28c. When the egg producers' representatives spoke to the Minister they pointed out that it would cost $3. 5m to cover the costs of production. I believe this to be a reasonable request. They needed this financial assistance to tide them over until such time as they can gain the benefits of production control on a nation-wide basis. This assistance has not been offered to them and therefore it means that as the assistance is not forthcoming hundreds of egg producers will leave this industry over the next year. 
This industry is a basic prop to the economy in my electorate and any decline in the industry is a threat to the economy in that area. For example, I have been informed that since July 1971 there are now 244 fewer producers supplying eggs in the Bendigo and in the northern district, 82 of whom derived most of their income from egg production. Many of the farmers in the area I represent have been going off their properties as a result of falling prices and rising costs of production. They are being squeezed off their properties. I believe they have a case for much more assistance than the Government has provided so far. I believe they have a case for a guaranteed cost of production on their returns to give them some protection until they can obtain the benefits of national controls over production. 
I want to draw attention to what I regard as a policy of discrimination against country students in comparison with city students. Not only has this situation been allowed to continue by the Federal Government but also it has been worsened by the policies that the Government has pursued in relation to Commonwealth scholarships, Commonwealth library grants and Commonwealth science grants. The first thing I want to draw to the attention of the House is the relationship between the drop-out rates of children in country schools in Victoria and those of the children in city schools. These rates are most alarming and nothing at all has been done about them. They are being allowed to continue. Any improvement that may take place will take place in spite of the discriminatory policies that this Government pursues. 
Looking at the number of students who entered their first year of secondary education in Victoria in 1965 and the number pf students still enrolled in their last year of secondary education in 1970, one finds that in the metropolitan area 34 per cent of the students who started off in their first year of secondary education were still enrolled at the matriculation level. In country schools only 23 per cent were still enrolled. In other words, a child who is born and lives in the city areas has about a 50 per cent greater chance of completing his secondary education than the child who lives in one of the country areas. If we look at the regional breakdown we see just how much more severe the pattern is. For example, looking at the figures for my own electorate of Bendigo in Victoria, approximately 21.5 per cent of the pupils who started their secondary education in 1965 were still enrolled in 1970 for their final or matriculation year of secondary education. So of the 1,395 pupils who were enrolled in the first form in 1965, only 288 were still enrolled for matriculation in 1970. Let us compare these figures with those in the more affluent areas of Melbourne. If we look at the central suburbs of Melbourne, we find that 50 per cent of the children who began their first year of secondary education were still enrolled in 1970 for their final year of secondary education. So it can be seen that children who happen to be born in the Bendigo, Maldon and Castlemaine regions of Victoria have less than half the chance of continuing on to their final secondary year of education that the children born and educated in the central suburbs of Melbourne have. 
The basic point I want to deal with here - I cannot tackle all of them - is simply the difference in income and the difference in the facilities being provided in these 2 areas. The schools with which I am concerned are in the general area of Bendigo, Castlemaine and Maldon. They are predominantly government schools and Catholic schools. They take in quite a wide range of the community but in particular they take in a large sector of the community who are on fairly low incomes by comparison with those people in the central suburbs of Melbourne such as Prahran, St Kilda, Camberwell, Hawthorn, Essendon and Kew. These areas contain such schools as Xavier College, Scotch College and the Methodist Ladies College. 
Let us look to see how the drop-out rates in these areas compare with the sorts of schools that are available. In the Bendigo area approximately 68 per cent of students enrolled in their final year attend government schools, 26 per cent attend Catholic schools, and a small percentage  -  6 per cent - attend another private school, the Girton Church of England Girls Grammar School, which is not too wealthy either. Overall, 1 am talking about an area which is by no means affluent by comparison with the central suburbs of Melbourne where 39 per cent of the pupils are at government schools, 26 per cent attend Catholic schools and 35 per cent attend private schools. In the central suburbs of Melbourne people can afford to pay anything up to $1,000 a year to send their children to fairly well endowed, affluent schools. What is more, they can afford to keep them there until matriculation and thus increase their opportunities of going to university, increase their opportunities of receiving a Commonwealth scholarship at attend university, and increase their opportunities of obtaining job satisfaction and, for the rest of their lives, an income which is high by comparison with what the children in my own electorate will earn. 
In the Bendigo electorate as a whole, these inequalities occur in areas other than those with which I have been dealing so far. Of the children who attend state secondary high schools and technical schools, one in every 15 is from a family which earns less than the minimum wage. 
Seven per cent or 350 out of the 6,200 children attending state secondary schools and technical schools in my electorate are from families which earn less than $51.50 per week. This is an area of very grave need. These are the children who should be getting the maximum assistance from the Commonwealth Government so that they can complete their final year of secondary education and go on to tertiary education as far as their abilities will take them. One of the major factors militating against them is the tremendous cost of education and the flagrant discriminatory policies that this Government still pursues in relation to its Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme. 
Let us make comparisons between the different areas. The students attending some of the private schools in the central suburbs of Melbourne are winning Commonwealth scholarships on a large scale. The ratio is probably ] in 4 at schools like the Methodist Ladies College, Xavier College or Scotch College. Probably up to 1 in 4 of these pupils receives a Commonwealth scholarship, whereas in the Bendigo electorate I have worked out that only about 8 per cent of the pupils who sit for scholarships receive them. In other words, only 1 in 25, or 4 per cent, of all those students at fourth form level in this area who are eligible for a scholarship receive one. Over the whole period that this Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme has been in operation, the Bendigo Girls High School has won 4 scholarships. In other words it has won a total of abou'. $2,000 since 1965. I do not have the exact figures for the Methodist Ladies College but I am prepared to estimate that over 300 scholarships have been won, worth about $250,000. 
It is interesting to look, as I will try to do in a few minutes, at the total income the various schools get from the Commonwealth Government. Looking at the new Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme, the fact that for the first time since 1965 a means test has now been introduced into this scheme is in itself a condemnation of a consistent policy of discrimination in favour of the children from more affluent families. This Government has persistently pursued this policy but now it has been changed. But it will not make a scrap of difference by bringing in a means test after a child has sat for an examination. It will not make a scrap of difference to the child in the country school, the child from the working class family, the child from the migrant family and all those whom we regard as being in the low income section of the community. It will not make a scrap of difference because the means test is applied through this scheme itself which has been convincingly proved over and over again to be discriminatory against a child who happens to be born into a lower income family. Those children will not win a scholarship now. They have not won them in the past. What a waste this scheme is. 
By now the Commonwealth Government has squandered probably a large part of the $45m spent so far on secondary scholarships on children who in any case would have gone on to their final year and who would have gone on to university regardless of the Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme. It has squandered probably $2m already on running examinations. In addition it is now going to make the costs of running examinations even dearer because it will have to test 25,000 pupils and on top of that it will have to apply a means test to 25,000 people. I can guarantee right now that not more than 30 per cent of the pupils who will get scholarships in the future will be getting the full allowance of $250, and that is a very generous estimate because the simple fact is that the children who come from low income families do not win these scholarships in the first place. What it will mean is that more scholarships will go to children from families with average weekly earnings to the higher income families but the children who are in maximum need in the community will not get assistance at all. 
I want very briefly to look at the way in which the Commonwealth Government is ignoring this pattern of inequality. Through its policy of ignoring need it is providing facilities for schools which should be last on the waiting list. I do not say they should not get assistance. I think they should be last on the waiting list. The assistance is not going to the schools which should be first on the list. The Bendigo Girls High School has so far obtained not more than $18,000 from the "Commonwealth Government. That consists of about $2,000 worth of scholarships and $16,000 worth of science laboratory facilities. By comparison, the Methodist Ladies College at Kew will have received $2,014,300 worth of assistance from 1964 to 1977, i.e., over the next 5 years and since the Commonwealth science laboratory scheme came into operation in 1964. The Methodist Ladies College at Kew has won $250,000 worth of scholarships, it has been guaranteed $346,000 worth of science laboratories and $200,000 worth of libraries. It has already received for secondary pupils $295,350 worth of per capita grants since 1970 and over the next 5 years it will be guaranteed by the Commonwealth per capita grant payments of $922,950. I simply say that this is a distortion; it is a perversion and an injustice. The money should be provided first of all to children who need it and that means those children in the inner suburban areas and country areas. So long as this policy of ignoring need continues there will be children whose abilities cannot be utilised to the maximum simply because they are victims of the family income situations into which they happen to be born. 
The legislation before the House is a milestone in this Government's attempt to entrench its elitist system of education. It constitutes in my opinion a policy of systematic and deliberate discrimination against the nation's  2  million children who go to government State primary and secondary schools. It is also an attempt to defraud parents of children at the less wealthy private schools by perpetuating poor student-staff ratios, temporary teachers and unqualified and under-qualified staff. In my opinion it is the most dangerous attempt ever made in the history of this Government to prop up private privilege indefinitely in this country at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. It is in fact the most revolutionary and dangerous system that this Government has introduced since the beginning of the science block scheme in  1964. 1  do not think it has yet been understood in the minds of the public just how dangerous this scheme is. 
Before I go any further let me state that I am not by any means opposing the entirety of the scheme. I can imagine the thoughts that are already trotting through the minds of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I am prepared to welcome the assistance that is going to needy private schools. I can see a lot of them in my electorate. 1 am saying this to defend myself against the constant misrepresentation of which we shall have an example as soon as I sit down. I say this to protect myself against misrepresentation because this is the policy that will be adopted all the way through from now on. 
The Government's policy is aimed at creating for the first time in Australia's history a national system of schools. This has never been done. It is a national system of schools - except that it is a national system of private schools. But it is a national system of private schools that will be closed to the overwhelming majority of the public. It will be financed by the public. It will be a publicly financed privately owned private education system that is now being erected. It is a policy aimed at propping up the affluent and pampering the rich. It is a policy which will expand the more affluent section of the private schools at a most dramatic rate, at a rate which could never have been foreseen before, because a fortune of the taxpayers' money will be invested not only improving and modifying buildings but actually going to the building of brand new grammar schools. 
If this Government has a chance to implement its policy over the next  5  years I expect that about  20  new grammar schools will be built in this country. In 
Victoria I would expect 5 to 10 new grammar schools to be built. These schools will be built at the Commonwealth taxpayers' expense. They will be closed to anybody who cannot put up the necessary $700 or $1,000 to send his children to them. Furthermore, the most disturbing feature of the scheme is that it is based upon the assumption that there will be continuing chaos and inequality in the State education system. That is implicit in the whole policy. 
This scheme is aimed at providing for those people who have sufficient means to buy their children out and send them to a private school. I do not know whether the Minister for Education and Science fully understands. I do not believe that honourable members opposite fully understand. On a number of recent occasions after I have spoken on education I have been amazed by the number of people who have come to me and have said how disturbed they are at the state of education in government schools. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  has just completed a prehistoric speech on what education is all about. He has no contact whatsoever with people who send their children to government schools. 
The Minister for Education and Science spends his week opening science blocks and libraries in private schools. I am sure that he has not the slightest understanding of how many people feel disturbed about the education system in the State schools that he is ignoring in this Bill. He is aware that there are some people who have positions of affluence and power and he will give them a chance to bail out. There is a feeling of very grave disquiet right throughout the community and many people are very disturbed about the State school system. 
There are people who cannot buy their children out. They cannot afford $700 or $1,000 and their children will be left to sink with the ship. The scale of the scheme is amazing. The Minister has made statements about how much will be provided. I have made calculations, probably on a conservative basis. I made a statement back in May when the new policy was announced. It has not been disproved since and it is still appropriate now. I calculated then that the private schools throughout Australia would get an extra $250m at least over the next 5 years. That is not the figure that the Minister used. It includes $48m in capital allocations and probably over $200m in increased per capita payments for running costs from the Commonwealth and State governments. I stress that that is probably a minimum estimate. 
It will mean probably about $372 extra for each pupil in government schools in direct grants. By the time they have paid out the extra recurrent costs they should be left with about $42m out of $167m capital allocations. They will have about $17.50 a pupil, so in fact the scheme is biased against the government schools. There is absolutely no doubt about that. The scheme is so bold that even the Victorian Government - which rushed headlong into accepting it as no doubt other governments will very soon do - could not even afford to introduce the increased 20 per cent payments on recurrent costs immediately. It has to do it bit by bit because it is so big. 
The Minister has said that the Victorian Department of Education is to get $46m for new buildings over the next 5 years. That is humbug. In fact the Victorian Department will make a net loss. This is clear when a calculation is made of what it will cost in increased recurrent payments by the State Department of Education to the private schools in Victoria. It will cost it $50m extra. In fact it is a net loss to Victoria and a net loss to Victoria means a net loss to the children in the State schools there. I am prepared to support substantial assistance to the private schools in need. I know that my position will be distorted continually. I am not opposing all this assistance but I am not prepared and nobody should be prepared to remain silent while this sort of fraud is being perpetrated on children who are attending government schools. In my opinion it is a system of massive and wholesale discrimination that the Minister is supporting. 
I sometimes wonder whether the Minister really grasps what he is doing, because it is so bold. I said that the honourable member for McPherson made a prehistoric speech on education. He made some rather amazing comments about the rich private schools. He said that there were no such things. I will refer to a few and the Minister might care to comment on whether my figures are correct. I will make a few brief comments on this point and I will return later to the main body of my speech. When the Minister conducted a survey of the needs of private schools in 1970-71 not all of the private schools replied. The figures that were supplied showed that there was a surplus of Si 2.9m in some of the non-Catholic private schools. I am not talking about Catholic schools because I regard them as being overall an area of need. I will go into that point in more detail later. 
The Minister for the Army should keep quiet until he can say something intelligent about the Army when he gets the chance. The non-Catholic private schools had a surplus of $ 12.9m over a 5-year period. A section of the nonCatholic private schools did not reply because they do not want money. If they did want it, they were not prepared to take it on the Government's terms, whatever they are. Adding an estimate of $7. 5m for the schools which did not take part in the survey it is obvious that a very substantial sector of the private non-Catholic education system had a surplus over a 5-year period of about $20m, at the very least. This makes nonsense of claims that there is no such thing as an affluent school. 
I return to the Victorian situation. I have used these figures before. At a conservative estimate there would be a surplus of about $9m in a section of non-Catholic private schools. The Minister and the honourable member for Macpherson always talk about the so-called rich private schools. What humbug it is to use the term so-called'. Let us look at the 84 schools about which the Minister recently gave information in reply to a question. They are 84 schools which we regard as being the wealthiest in Victoria and New South Wales. Of those schools 93 per cent have superb science facilities already and 53 per cent of them now have superb library facilities. They are not doing too badly. At present in Victoria probably not 25 per cent of the State schools have facilities anywhere like those the Minister has provided in the schools for which honourable members opposite speak. We know from figures cited today by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that 40 per cent of the high schools in Victoria still do not have Commonwealth science blocks. Commonwealth science blocks consist of a couple of rooms. About 50 per cent of the technical schools in Victoria do not have Commonwealth science blocks. 
I am using these Victorian examples to show honourable members what has happened already to one of the Government's State aid schemes and the way in which it punishes the children who attend government schools. In Victoria there are about 220,000 government school pupils. Only 300 Commonwealth laboratories have been built with Commonwealth money. In the private sector in Victoria there are about 28,000 pupils and 147 laboratories have been built. The government schools have 8 times the number of pupils and only twice the number of laboratories  as the private schools. That does not bother the Minister. The money was not meant for the government schools in the first place, just as the present scheme is not intended to cater for the government schools. 
Let us have a look at the buildings erected in Victoria by Commonwealth funds. One laboratory has been erected for every 746 pupils in government schools. The private schools have built one laboratory for every 192 pupils. The ratio is 4 to one. Does it bother the Minister for Education and Science? Does it honourable members on the other side of the House? Not on your life. The Minister virtually admitted in public, in reply to a question from me, that the standards to which those science laboratories have been built in Victorian State schools are inferior to the standards of laboratories built in private schools. 
In regard to the library situation, I was talking earlier about the wealthy private schools. Only 15 per cent of government schools in Victoria will have a library built from Commonwealth funds by December. In other words, one school in 7 will have a library built compared with one school out of every 2 of the wealthiest private schools in Australia. In my own electorate there are 10 high schools and technical schools run by the State Government. So far, only one of those schools has a library. Those other schools which are in working class or farming areas may have to wait up to 20 or 25 years before they have a library built. The only school which has a library is the White Hills Technical School. 
I refer now to school laboratories in the electorate of Bendigo. These figures have been published in the newspaper and the Minister for Education and Science has not been game to challenge them. I have worked out that the 10 high schools and technical schools in my electorate have received a total of $166,000 in Commonwealth finance. Had they been private schools and had their laboratories been erected to the standard upon which the Minister insists for private schools, they would have received a total of $1,400,000 Those schools have been sold short, as usual, by this Government. That is an example of how the situation has developed in library and laboratory grants. We can expect the same sort of thing to happen in this scheme. 
As I said earlier, this scheme accepts continuing chaos, squalor and poverty in a very large number of government schools, while the Government accepts the full responsibility of bringing every single private school in the nation up to the finest possible standards that it can obtain. I will not go into detail about the needs of government schools which notoriously have been despised by this Government. All we can say is that the private schools will have brand new buildings; they will have improved buildings. The Minister for Education and Science, if he is lucky enough to return as Minister after the election, will accept full responsibility for bringing every private school in Australia up to the finest possible standard. He will provide every dollar and he will know their needs literally down to the last piece of chalk. 
Yet the Government maintains that state schools are not the affair of the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth says that we should leave them to the State governments and if the State governments want to spend the money as the Commonwealth thinks they should spend it, that is their business, but if the State governments do not spend this money, that is also their business. This is precisely what is happening in the field 4 of science blocks and library grants. Of course, the Minister cannot even guarantee that the State Government of Victoria will spend that money on the buildings because what has happened with science and library grants has been that, when the Commonwealth Government has entered the field in Victoria, the State Government has either cut down its spending in these areas or its expenditure has been virtually frozen at the level it was at when this scheme originated. This is part of the reason why children in Victorian state schools are doing so badly in regard to science facilities and libraries. 
I should like to make some general points on the basis of the way in which the Government has operated the 2 systems of aid, namely, the grants for libraries and laboratories. Firstly, the standard of facilities provided in private schools that the Government is to assist will be better than anything in any government school in Australia. That is absolutely sure. It is an admirable thing that the Commonwealth always insists upon these good standards. All I am saying is that while the Government will ensure that these standards are reached in private schools, it could not care less what happens in government schools because there will be no pressure on state schools that the facilities that they build with this money will be to the same standards. 
Of course, this will mean that there will be staff rooms, art rooms, specialist rooms of all kinds, assembly halls, libraries, gymnasiums and probably an occasional swimming pool in the private schools. Everything that the schools need from now on will be provided by the Commonwealth Government under this new policy and it will be provided at the best standards. At the same time there will be government schools throughout the length and breadth of this country that will be completely ignored. In one area we will find a decaying, antiquated dilapidated government school which has been left at the mercy of an impoverished State government while further down the road we will see a private school which has been boosted at the expense of the Commonwealth Government with a fine, superb new building with great improvements. It will be delightful. All I am saying is that if the Government can do this for one sector of the community, it can do it for the other sector as well. 
The rate of expansion in the private school sector will be terrific over the next few years. I do not expect to see a significant increase in the Catholic sector because I think that this system still builds into the Catholic sector very severe financial disabilities. I think (he recurrent grants will still leave many Catholic schools with grave disadvantages from a staffing point of view. The expansion will take place in the non-Catholic private school sector. One of the reasons for this will be that people are concerned about what is happening to their children in government schools. When the honourable member for Mcpherson and others like him talk about concern, they always use a derogatory term when they refer to government schools. 
No, it is not unfair. There is always an insinuation that people who send their children to government schools do not care about them. The Minister for Education and Science has virtually put himself into that position in public by saying that people who send their children to public schools do not care. There is always an aristocratic prejudice towards schools attended by the public. So, this concern exists. It is a very serious concern and people who are worried about their children and who want their children- 
I want to ask a question of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in regard to the Bill. Where in this Bill is there a statement which is supposed to concern the question of need? During his second reading speech he said that aid would be provided to schools according to need. I have examined this Bill. Unless he can show me affirmative evidence I suggest that it contains no statement about need whatsoever. I want to know what the details of need are. I am particularly concerned that this scheme indicates that another system has developed in exactly the same way as the libraries programme and the laboratories programme have developed. That is to say, the committee that will be set up to decide on standards will establish standards and the sole question then will be whether or not a particular private school which is being assessed meets those standards. This is exactly what has happened under the libraries and laboratories grants. 
In this context I find it extremely interesting to look at a letter by the Minister in the Melbourne 'Age' on 24th July 1972. He is a compulsive letter writer. A question was raised in that newspaper by the principal of the Richmond Girls High School, who was extremely concerned to know what were the so-called publicly known and identifiable criteria by which schools were given assistance. The Minister wrote back on 24th July. His reply was about SOO words long. It was rather verbose. He proceeded to set out in detail why he should not tell this woman what the needs are and what the criteria are because if she wrote away and asked for the little booklet saying what the standards are she would know the standards and the criteria. I find this rather amazing but not surprising because the Minister has no criteria of needs whatsoever. For example, as far as libraries and science blocks are concerned, only 2 questions are asked of any school. First, it is asked: 'Are you a private school?' Secondly, they are asked: 'Do you make a profit?' If the school says: 'Yes, we are a private school and we do not make a profit', the Minister agrees to build its standards up to the finest in the country regardless of how much money it has stashed away in the bank. Some private schools, according to the evidence I have just given - which the Minister has not refuted - have very considerable surpluses in finance which suggest that at the very best they should wait at the end of the queue. So in other words the only standard the Minister has is whether the buildings and facilities of a school match the superb standards the Commonwealth has laid down for private schools and private schools alone. 
So what will happen now is that he will establish a committee which will draw up some superb standards. The only questions asked of a school will be whether it is a private school and whether it is a non-profit making private school. The whole question of socio-economic need will be his last consideration. The Catholic schools will not be asked: 'How many children do you have in this school from low income families?' They will not be asked: "What is the proportion of children who are dependants of widows or deserted wives or what proportion of children come from migrant families?' There will be no question about the whole academic tradition of the school. Some of the fundamental socio-economic factors will be completely ignored. I can guarantee that under the system of need that this gentleman will draw up in his new scheme every single grammar school in this country that is well endowed and privileged will in the next 5 years get at least something. They will get at least a few thousand dollars. 
Here again I refer to the evidence that h; provided earlier on to me in reply to a question which he still has not answered in detail about 84 of the wealthiest private schools in Australia. Somehow every one of them managed to get something, whether it was in the way of libraries or laboratories. Indeed, a little school such as Timbertop, which has 1 10 pupils who pay up to $2,000 a year in fees, is entitled to almost $50,000. That school, God bless it, is entitled to $25,000 worth of laboratory and $22,000 worth of well equipped and well furnished library. There is no question of socioeconomic needs. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many pupils (a) sat for and (b) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships at (i) Melbourne Boys' High School, (ii) University High School, Melbourne, (iii) MacRobertson's Girls' High School, Melbourne, (iv) Camberwell High School and (v) Box Hill Boys' High School from the date of introduction of the scheme to and including the 1971 examination. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  both in a statement he made in Parliament last night and also in a letter, of which I have just received a copy, which he sent to the Warrnambool 'Standard' and which was published in the Warrnambool Standard' on Thursday, 14th September. The letter was in reply to a challenge by his ALP opponent to debate education with me, which he refused. 
He refused to accept the challenge. He said: 
I have debated with  Mr Kennedy  in Parliament and on the radio and his attitude towards independent schools must give anyone with an interest in the independent sector of education real cause for concern. 
He followed that with a statement of mine, taken out of context, on a radio interview in which I was quoted as saying: 
I don't care what the leaders of the Catholic Church Protestant Churches say about what they want their education system to be as far as Commonwealth grants are concerned. 
That statement is taken out of context. I made that statement in reply to a statement he had made earlier that the system of grants he was supporting was a system of grants which was supported by various organisations of private schools. I made the point that the Federal Government is not responsible to any body of private schools whatsoever or to any private body of any kind but is responsible to the Australian taxpayer. This is where his statement has misrepresented my position. I am not opposed to the way in which church schools want to spend their grants when they receive them. What I am saying is that the decision as to how they receive them must be made by the Commonwealth Government in the interests of the Australian taxpayer. 

 Dr PATTERSON (Dawson)- Mi  Speaker- 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) Catholic and (b) non-Catholic private schools in Victoria, after originally, being visited by a representative of the Secondary Science Standard Committee and being assessed as eligible for a given number of laboratories, later qualified for additional laboratories after a further visit or visits and a further assessment or assessments. 
What were the names of the schools that qualified for additional laboratories, and what were the numbers for which they qualified. 
On what grounds did these schools as a whole qualify for additional laboratories. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor state on 6th May 1971 (Hansard, page 2666) that for the remaining 4 years of the Science Facilities Programme 1971-75, the method of distribution of funds will take closer account of the actual needs of particular schools? 
If so, were the schools whose needs he was referring to private schools, government schools or both? 
Did the statement mean that during the period 1964-71 the distribution of funds had not taken account of the needs of particular schools, if so, (a) in what way had this happened, (b) what action has since been taken to rectify the situation and (c) what are the names of the schools in each State with respect to which such action has been taken since May 1971? 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Has he made any estimate of the number and percentage of pupils who will win Commonwealth secondary scholarships in the future who are likely to qualify for the full living allowance. 
If so, what is the estimate and on what basis is it made. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many science laboratories are (a) Catholic schools and (b) other private schools in each State and in the Commonwealth eligible to build in the period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1975 under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act. 
With the construction of these laboratories, what will be the total number built in (a) Catholic and (b) other private schools in each State and Territory by the end of the Science Facilities Programme. 
How many science laboratories will be built in government schools in each State and in the Commonwealth in the period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 197S from (a) Commonwealth funds, (b) State funds and (c) in total. 
With the construction of these science laboratories In government schools, what will be the total number of such laboratories in government schools in each State and in the Commonwealth by the end of the Science Facilities Programme. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many of the laboratories referred to in his answer to Question No. 5883 (Hansard, 16th August 1972, page 323) as being built in each 
State with (a) Commonwealth, and (b) State funds, were built in each year or triennium or other relevant period of time for which figures are readily available during the period 1964 to 1971. 
What are the names, numbers and percentages of (a) Catholic, and (b) other private schools in Victoria which bad science laboratories built under the Slates Grants (Science Laboratories) Act in each of the years 1964 to 1971 inclusive. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has he details of the actual needs of government schools in each State for science accommodation and equipment for the 1971-75 period? 
If so, (a) what means are used to obtain information on which the Government can assess the needs of government schools, (b) what are these needs in (i) each State, and (ii) the Commonwealth for (A) Science accommodation, and (B) equipment for the period and (c) to what extent will these needs be met by (i) the Commonwealth funds allocated for these purposes, (ii) State funds and (iii) Commonwealth and State funds allocated for these purposes? 
If not, are the requirements of private schools for science accommodation and equipment the only needs of which the Government has full information; if so, does this mean that the grants that have been allocated to State Governments are and have been made only on the basis of being a proportion of the known needs of private schools? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the average cost of educating  a  pupil in (a) primary and (b) secondary grades in (i) Government, (ii) Roman Catholic and (iii) other private schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth in 1971, and what is the estimated cost for 1972. 
Will he itemise the (a) kinds and (b) levels of expenditure on which he bases his estimates for the costs of educating a pupil in 1971in Government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth. 
What (a) was the actual amount paid in 1971 and (b) is the estimated amount to be paid in 1972 by (i) each State Government and (ii) the Commonwealth towards the cost of educating a pupil in (a) primary and (b) secondary schools in (I) the Roman Catholic education system and (II) the nonCatholic private sector and what proportion of these costs was met from the combined State and Commonwealth grant. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Why has it taken more than 3 months to reply to question No. 5783 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 10th May 1972. 
Did he state in a letter dated 1st August 1972 that a reply to the question would be provided in the first week of the Budget sittings; if so, why has the answer still not been provided. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What were the (a) categories, (b) numbers and (c) percentages of primary industries in respect of which applications for (i) debt reconstruction, (ii) farm build-up and (iii) rehabilitation assistance were (A) processed, (B) approved and (C) rejected in each State and the Commonwealth during July 1972. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does his failure to provide answers to the major sections of Question No. 5240 (Hansard, 23rd May 1972, pages 2936-7) suggest that the data sought are not regarded as essential to a national surveillance of the operation of the Employment Training Scheme for Women. 
Why have only one in every 9 of the women who applied for training reached the stage where employment has been found for them. 
Why has this Scheme failed and what steps are being taken to make it work. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of non-Catholic private schools in Victoria which one or more rooms v/ere modified or converted for science teaching purposes with funds offered or paid under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act during the period 1964 to 1971. 
How many of them had (a) one, (b) two, (c) three or (d) more than three rooms converted or modified. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 

 Did his predecessor state  on 6th  May 1971 (Hansard, page 2665) that on present information, made available both by the States and the nongovernment schools, the Government believes that the purposes of the Science Facilities Programme will be achieved by the expenditure of another 543.295 million between 1971 and 1975. 
Did he state in his reply to question No. 5882 (Hansard, 16th August 1972, page 297) that developments which had occurred since bis predecessor's statement necessarily meant that not all government and non-government secondary schools will have, by mid-1975, facilities to meet their needs at that date at the standards which the Commonwealth accepts as desirable. 
If so, what are these developments, in what ways have they prevented the Commonwealth from providing first class science facilities in all schools, and why were they not foreseen when the present allocation of science funds was decided on in 1971. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has a total of SI 23m been allocated by the Commonwealth Government in grants to schools under the Science Facilities Programme to 30th June 1975, and had $80m been expended by mid-1971. 
Did his answer to question No. 5112 (Hansard, 22nd March 1972, page 1065) indicate that it is not known what percentage and amount of the funds allocated in science grants by the end of 1971 had been spent on (a) buildings and (b) equipment, and that even though the scheme hag been in operation only, 8 years the distribution of expenditure in private schools only could be assessed. 
Did the answer also indicate that it is not known what amount and percentage of (a) total funds provided and (b) funds provided for building costs was used in each school's system in each State and in the Commonwealth on design, building, supervision and administration with respect to libraries and laboratories by the end of 1971. 
If the position is as stated, how has it been possible to make a rational assessment of aspects of the economics and efficiency of these programmes. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What are the total sums for which the following schools have been assessed as being eligible in respect of (a) science grants, (b) library grants and (c) both grants under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act and the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act indicating (i) amounts already paid, (ii) amounts allocated and 
further amounts which it can be reasonably expected will be ultimately received: 
Ballarat Grammar School, Ballarat College, Brighton Grammar School, Camberwell Girls Grammar School, Camberwell Grammar School, Carey Grammar School, Caulfield Grammar School, Christ Church Grammar School, The Hermitage, Claredon PLC, Clyde School, Elsternwick Methodist Ladies College, Essendon Grammar School, Fintona, Firbank, Geelong Grammar, The Geelong College, Gippsland Grammar School, Girton CEGGS, Haileybury, Hamilton and Alexandra College, Hawthorn Seventh Day Adventist High School, Huntingtower, Ivanhoe CEGGS, Ivanhoe Grammar, Kevington, Kingswood, Korona Lauriston, Lilydale Adventist Academy, Luther College, Melbourne Grammar, Mentone Grammar, Mentone Girls Grammar, MLC Hawthorn, Morongo, Peninsula Church of England School, Penleigh PLC, PLC (Burwood), Queen's CEGGS Ruyton, St Anne's (Sale), St Catherine's (Toorak), St Leonard's (Brighton), St Margaret's (Berwick), St Michael's CEGGS, Scotch College, Shelford, Strathcona, Merlon Hall, Tintern, Toorak -College, Trinity Grammar, Mount Scopus, Wesley and Yarra Valley. 
What amount of each sum is the school entitled to for (a) buildings and (b) apparatus under the Science Facilities Programme, and (c) buildings, (d) books, (e) equipment and (f) furniture under the Library Scheme. 
What are the names of any other nonCatholic private schools in Victoria and will he provide similar details in respect of them. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister  for  Health, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's decision to attempt to publicise the existence of the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan through posting out notices on the scheme with child endowment cheques, what measures have been planned to study the effectiveness of this move. 
Will the Minister arrange for the local offices of the Department of SocialServices to add an appropriate attachment to applications for subsidised health benefits so that the number of applicants influenced to apply by the posting of these notices can be recorded. 
How many additional applications for subsidised health benefits does the Minister expect to obtain through the posting of these notices to mothers. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In the light of the recently introduced Bill on urban and regional development, will he take early steps to assist the Victorian Government to make Bendigo the site of Victoria's fourth university as I suggested several months ago in representations to the Victorian Government? 
The Bills before the House consitute a large scale abdication of national responsibility by this Government. The legislation is substantially irrelevant to the needs of a stable and profitable wool industry. I believe it is a deliberate and cynical plan to hold the clock back. The legislation subordinates the welfare of wool growers to those who thrive on what we call the free enterprise system of marketing. It uses the power of the state and all its paraphernalia to deny wool growers the effective power to regulate and control the marketing of their own product. The legislation postpones yet again, in the face of compelling evidence of the need for stabilisation and orderly marketing, reforms that the industry itself has stated in the clearest possible language are absolutely essential. The legislation exposes wool growers to punishment at the hands of economic forces that they as a collection of individuals are incapable of controlling alone and which, over 2 years, have brought thousands of wool growers to their knees and have driven thousands of wool growers out of business. 
The Bills before the House today perpetuate the advantages that synthetics, as a material, are having over wool in their ability to offer a stable supply with stable prices. The legislation is yet another attempt at stalling the introduction of essential reforms in the marketing of wool under the pressure of powerful vested interests that have dominated the Liberal and Country Parkes' policies for decades. It is a sell out of wool growers, their families and the country environments in which they live and operate. The basic needs of the wool industry, as I see them - of the grower and the user - are to provide for stability in the marketing of wool. The grower must be guaranteed a consistent profitability and, in turn, the user must be guaranteed a fibre that is offered at a commercially realistic price, based on a fair return and based on current demand. The present Government is incapable of dealing with the instability in wool prices and in the wool industry. The instability very largely has been created through the apathy of this Government. 
We have seen continual hedging by the Federal Government on the fundamental question of acquisition. Even this morning we saw the spectacle of a Minister, who only last week made a statement calling for acquisition, backing off when asked whether he favoured acquisition. We have a disgraceful situation in which the prices being provided for wool growers are just as exposed to excessive fluctuations now as they were 2 years ago. We have a disgraceful situation in which the wool grower has no more chance of controlling the marketing of his product now than he had 2 years ago. We are no closer to stable, orderly marketing now than we were 2 years ago when wool had reached disastrously low prices. 
Let us look at those prices. Last week they averaged 75c per lb. In 1967, the year of the referendum on the reserve price, wool averaged 52c per lb. In 1968- 69 it dropped back to 45c per lb. In May 1969 it was 50c per lb. Last year, 1970-71, wool was allowed to decline to below 30c per lb. In May 1971 it was allowed to collapse to 23c per lb. However, since August this year there has been a rise from 50c to 75c per lb. In this context one hears the statement that these are boom prices. They are nothing of the sort. They are at best satisfactory prices which should have been guaranteed to the wool grower all the time. They do not compare with the prices offered back in the early 1950s when we could really talk about boom prices. If one considers depreciation in relation to a price like 50c per lb which was paid in 1969, one will see that they are still very modest and basically only satisfactory prices. 
This Government has a record of selling out the interests and the welfare of the Australian wool grower. All along, the Government has refused to tackle the fundamental problems affecting the wool grower. There has been a consistent refusal in the face of demands from the wool industry itself to acquire, appraise and market the entire clip. There has been a consistent refusal to allow wool growers to have the predominant say in the marketing of their own product. All the way along the Government has denied wool growers a guarantee for their product, stability for the whole industry and, in turn, stability for the nation's income. Let us look very briefly at the price averaging plan which was introduced after the 1969 election. In no time that plan was condemned by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Briefly, let us look at the very dismal history of a Government which refuses to deal with the fundamental needs of the wool grower. There was the introduction of the $30m emergency grant for wool growers, offering a maximum of $1,500 to growers who had experienced a decline of 81 per cent for 1970-71 over their wool cheque for 1969-70. This scheme was riddled with injustices. It was badly thought out. It was introduced in haste and, once again, it exposed thousands of growers who were in dire need of assistance from the Government to economic circumstances that they could not control. It forced many of them out of production. The scheme was a disaster. If I remember correctly, only about $23m of that assistance was actually expended. The scheme was very badly organised. Of course, it had little significance in tackling the fundamental problems of the wool industry. 1 remember sending a number of telegrams on behalf of people in my electorate to the Minister for Primary Industry at the time, asking him to clarify the cases of eligibility for this assistance and asking him to postpone the closing date for the applications because many wool growers were dismayed and confused by the difficulties of the scheme. Many of them missed out, and basically they were the people who needed the assistance most of all. 
Let me turn now to the Australian Wool Commission which, once again, was set up as a political act on the eve of a Senate election. It came into operation 2 days before the Senate election took place, just as this half baked and inadequate legislation now before the House is being presented to the Australian wool grower 7 weeks before the House of Representatives election. This scheme was introduced in a second reading speech in which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  publicly disowned any attempt to pressure those who were buying wool into paying what we would regard as being a reasonable price. It was claimed that the Federal Government would not hold the wool buyer to ransom, the implication being that it would hold the wool grower to ransom. That system has had little effect in stabilising the market or in obtaining a fair price to the wool grower. I notice that many of the Country Party spokesmen are now saying that the reasonable prices now being offered are the result of activity by this Government. That is in complete contradiction to what was said by the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr King)  who said that the recession in the price of wool was a result of international factors, not of policies. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I was criticising the Government's refusal to tackle the basic problem of providing financial stability for wool growers, particularly marketing stability. I was outlining the milestones in what I regard as the betrayal of the basic interests of wool growers. I was referring to the Australian Wool Commission, which was established in 1970. I pointed out that its establishment was, in fact, an evasion of a request from the Australian Wool Industry Conference in April 1970 for a policy of total acquisition of the Australian wool clip, appraisal and marketing within a reserve price system. That request was ignored by the Federal Government. Instead, the Commission propped up the auction system and acted only as a competitor and a buyer rather than as a means of guaranteeing a consistent and profitable income for wool growers. 
At the time the Australian Wool Commission was operating - I concede that it brought about an improvement on what otherwise would have been the situation - the price of wool fell from 29c per lb in October 1970 to 23c per lb in May 1971. So, when the Government claims that it has saved the wool growers it is essential to bear in mind that this Commission presided over a disastrous collapse in the price of wool. This situation has pertained for 2 years. Following the establishment of the Wool Commission, the rural reconstruction scheme was introduced which, again, was based on a continuing collapse in the price of wool. It was based on a policy announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 6th December 1971 on a Monday Conference' television programme. He said: 
My Government believes that 11,000 to 14,000 wool growers have to go out of the industry. 
This was a deliberate policy to phase out these wool growers announced by the Federal Government Clearly this objective has been achieved by its policy. 
The rural reconstruction scheme was a restrictive and deliberately harsh policy aimed at driving people off the land. In the first 9 months of the scheme's operation - according to figures I have just received from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  - only a small number of growers had their applications processed. I will refer to processing in a minute, but I want to point out that many of the applications for rural reconstruction assistance were never processed because, in fact, State rural reconstruction authorities simply told growers: 'Do not waste your time by putting in this application. You do not have a hope. There is no chance of you proving long-term economic viability'. Many of the growers did not bother to apply. Of those whose applications were processed in the first 9 months, from May to March of this year - the 1,954 wool growers throughout Australia who applied for assistance and had their applications processed - only 731, or 37 per cent, were approved for the granting of assistance. Of the growers who operated in both the wool and wheat industries, about 41 per cent had their applications processed successfully. 
In New South Wales only 417 applications were processed. Yet we know that there was a colossal problem, for example, in western New South Wales. We know that in that area something like 360 applications were received for rural reconstruction assistance in the first 12 months and only 2 were successful. We know that there were similar large-scale rejections of applications in various parts of Victoria. In New South Wales in the first 9 months of the scheme 417 applications from wool growers were processed and only 132, or 32 per cent, were approved. At the same time, in Victoria, 629 applications from wool growers were processed and only 229 were approved - in other words, 38 per cent. Only 41 per cent of the farmers in the wool and wheat industries were successful in their applications. 
At the same time there was a terribly low price for wool - a situation that was left completely untouched by the Federal Government - and thousands of farmers were left to struggle in a very severe debt situation or were forced off their properties. What should have been done? Obviously there should have been a system of marketing and national acquisition of the wool clip to guarantee a reserve price for growers. At the same time there should have been a genuine reconstruction scheme with a genuinely low interest rate, as low as 3 per cent, on long-term loans over 33 to 40 years and with no artificial limits being placed on the amount of funds available. The aim of that scheme would have been to keep people who had a reasonable chance of viability on their properties instead of driving them off. 
The next Government scheme was the deficiency payments scheme. In itself, this again was a refusal to take basic action that was demanded by growers. They wanted a minimum reserve price of 45c per lb. Of course, the Country Party sold out and settled for 40c per lb and then argued with the Liberal Party. It came away throwing up its hands in delight that the wool growers had been granted a minimum price of 36c per lb. The deficiency payments scheme was, in fact, a sell-out of one of Australia's most basic and valuable commodities. It was a squandering of $53m from public funds to subsidise giveaway prices to overseas buyers when the growers should have been guaranteed, by a stable marketing system, a reasonable return for their commodity. That was not offered to them. There is now an excessive fluctuation in the price of wool which is causing some concern. Only last week the  Chairman  of the Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, said that if a reserve price had been adopted in 1965 the instability that is now causing concern would not have taken place. In other words, if the stable marketing system which the Labor Party sought had been introduced in 1970, we would not have the situation we have today. 
I turn now to the Wool Industry Bill now before the House. I regard it as being a betrayal of wool growers. It comes 2 years and 7 months after wool prices really started to collapse. It is an attempt to blockade the grower's power to regulate the price of his own product. It is an attempt to subject the price of wool to excessive fluctuation and instability. It is a sabotage of essential reforms that have been called for by grower organisations. When this decision was announced in May, following a study of the Randall Committee's report, the present leaders of the Country Party did not have the courage to state publicly that, in fact, the Government was not prepared to introduce an acquisition scheme. Since then they have cynically tried to tell country people throughout Australia that they favour and will introduce an acquisition scheme. Of course, they intend no such thing. We had the dishonesty, I believe, of the Minister for Primary Industry last week when he expressed support for a system of acquisition, as quoted in the Melbourne 'Age' of 6th October. He said:  i hope the wool industry has learnt its lesson and will move as quickly as possible for the introduction of marketing reforms. . . 
I would like to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I was misrepresented by the Minister for Education and Science according to a news report on radio station 3BO yesterday following a speech made by the Minister at an election meeting last Saturday night at the Bendigo Town Hall. In the news release the Minister is reported as saying that I had attacked Commonwealth aid to special schools for the handicapped. That is utter nonsense and sheer distortion by the Minister.  His  statement is supposedly based upon a statement of mine published in some newspapers on 1st September. There is nothing whatsoever in that Press statement that indicates any criticism at all of Commonwealth aid to special schools for the handicapped. I was making a suggestion in the clearest possible terms. The words I used cover schools which are described as being rich, exclusive private colleges and grammar schools, schools for the elite. These are not schools for handicapped children unless the Minister is applying a very special definition to handicapped children. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon- - Minister for Education and Science) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr KENNEDY (Bendigo)- I wish to make a personal explanation. Once again the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has persevered in his deliberate misrepresentations. The answer that the Minister gave to me gave no indication of what the schools: that I was talking about were. I asked the Minister a very simple question: What are the names of those schools which refused to give him information or omitted- to give him information? There was a very large number of them. I do not have the number at hand now. He refused point blank to tell me the names of those schools. Since then he has been hiding behind continual substerfuge - 
I should like to supplement briefly the comments that have been made by honourable members on this side of the chamber and those on the other side who have expressed concern. I should like to put in an appeal for a more generous approach by the Government to the problems of fruit growers. I have been concerned about the effects that this scheme will have in my own electorate, particularly with regard to growers in the Harcourt area. There is very considerable dismay in that area that, in fact, the scheme will be of little use. I am referring principally to the eligibility sections of the Schedule on page 5 of the Bill. 
I should like to say before coming to that point that the Minister made reference to the link between this scheme and the debt adjustment aspect of the rural reconstruction scheme. This is a very disturbing situation. The figures that the Minister has provided in a written reply to a question on notice asked by me show that in the first 9 months of the rural reconstruction scheme it has operated very badly from the point of view of Victorian fruit growers. The figures contained in the answer are rather astonishing. During the whole of that period, of all the fruit growers in Victoria only 58 applied for debt reconstruction assistance under the Commonwealth's rural recontruction scheme. That in itself is rather an amazing figure, considering that these people were eligible for debt adjustment assistance. But, of the growers who applied in that period, the number successful was the incredibly low figure of five. This is a rather amazing situation. Obviously there are people in the fruit growing industry in Victoria who deserve a second go. If they have a chance of proving economic viability in terms of being able to service a long term debt at a reasonably low interest rate, I think they have a right to a second go. 
I become concerned when I think of people being forced off their farms, particularly when it is considered how ineffective other aspects of the rural reconstruction scheme, such as the rehabilitation and retraining programmes, already have proven themselves. Obviously many of these growers have no hope, despite their very considerable problems, of getting any relief whatsoever from the Commonwealth Government. We have seen this pattern operating already in the rural reconstruction scheme, with large scale reduction rates for those who have applied- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that we are in committee. I refer him to the Schedule. 
I take the point and I am coming back to it. I was just making the point that this scheme will operate in a manner rather similar to the rural reconstruction scheme. There is a link between them, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  suggested. He said that this scheme was an adjunct to the rural reconstruction scheme. I express the concern of the people I represent by pointing out that, in fact, the problems of some of the fruit growers I represent have been quite intense when falling returns and rising costs are considered. These problems have been aggravated by a series of natural disasters over a considerable period of time. 
Many growers have had to take in extra work or to take on extra types of agricultural pursuits because they could not survive on the level of income they would get from their orchards. These people have tried to maintain their orchards and stay on the land. They have increased their income and by so doing - by trying to raise themselves out of this position of extreme financial hardship - many of them quite clearly will disqualify themselves from assistance under this scheme. At this stage I ask the Minister and the Government to look again at the scheme, to review it very quickly and to see how it is working. I quote, as I have quoted recently in the Parliament, but I think it is worthwhile raising it again, the fact that, according to a report in a local newspaper, there is not one grower in the whole of the Harcourt area who would be eligible for treepull compensation under this scheme. This was printed in the 'Tarrengower Times' which circulates in the Harcourt area. This is probably typical of the situation in other parts. The issue of 16th August referred to a meeting of growers in Harcourt held on 15th August, lt stated: 
Last night orchardists met at Harcourt to discuss the latest Government proposals to help the fruit grower - the tree pulling scheme. 
The scheme recently announced by the Commonwealth Government was an offer te the States to assist sections of the fruit industry - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I must ask the honourable member to refer to the Bill in committee and not to make a general speech. In relation to which clause does the honourable member seek information? 
I will take your comments into account,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am trying to examine this Schedule and to study the clauses on eligibility for compensation. I will round off briefly by saying that it is quite clear from the evidence I have seen in my own electorate that many of the growers in the area who quite desperately require assistance from the Commonwealth Government will be debarred from receiving it. One of the main reasons is that they have been forced, because of their hardship, to supplement their income from other sources. 1 ask that the operation of this scheme be reviewed very quickly after its commencement. 
There is a crucial need for positive national leadership in a full scale programme of decentralisation of population and balanced regional development. The Bill before the House is a testimony, after 22 years of continuous contempt for this need, to the willingness of this Government to initiate such a programme under the pressure of electoral fear. Twenty-two years of Liberal-Country Party neglect not only have left an unbalanced state of development throughout Australia but also have seriously jeopardised our national environment. Every Australian should be entitled, as of right, to a healthy national environment - healthy in all senses. Yet the colossal growth of our metropolitan areas already has overloaded their watersheds and air sheds. Any continued increase in their populations can only threaten the environment of urban dwellers and all Australians with increasing pollution. 
There is nothing in either the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or in the terms of the Bill itself that suggests that this Government has the imagination to grasp the magnitude of the threat to our environment from the continually increasing centralisation of population. The Prime Minister's second reading speech obviously was rushed into print only hours before it was read to the House. It lacks any appearance of understanding and imagination, let alone willingness to envisage and plan the policies necessary to tackle the problem. One can see from the size of the Bill itself and the length of the Prime Minister's second reading speech the incredibly small amount of thought that has been put into this matter. It is incredible that this Government has given no evidence of understanding just what the problems are. I think a significant comparison would be to look at the speech of the Prime Minister and then look at the speech made by the shadow Minister on the Labor side. One can see the depth of thought that has gone into the programme put forward by the Labor Party in this case. 
The evidence seems to suggest that little will be done to remove the spectre of a gigantic metropolis of Melbourne whose population will increase from 2.6 million to 5 million by the year 2000 and then d -&lt;- bie again to 10 million by the year 2030. Nor is there yet any evidence that the Government has evolved any imaginative plans to heighten the quality of life in non-metropolitan areas, both for the sake of their present inhabitants and to attract new residents from the metropolis in coming years. It is hard to evade the conclusion that the Government is not sincere about this policy. Along with a whole host of new policies which have suddenly been found to be possible to conceive just 6 to 8 weeks before the election - I refer to such things as an investigation into national superannuation which was announced tonight, the proposal to abolish the means test and the proposal to control the foreign takeover of our national assets - this scheme of urban and regional development has been concocted in haste. This is despite the fact that this Government in 1949 promised a plan of decentralisation of population and despite the fact that it has had a special committee of 
State and Commonwealth officials investigating decentralisation since 1964. Despite these things, the Government has produced a singularly barren policy which offers few detailed outlines of what the Government intends to do. It has made no statement at this stage of what methods are to be adopted. Even the person who has been relectantly dragooned into presiding over the new authority will retire next year. There is no outline as to which areas are to be chosen for development, and country people will be kept guessing as Liberal and Country Party candidates throughout the course of the election dangle before the electors the found hope that theirs will be the area to benefit from this programme. 
The Labor Party is pledged to a full scale commitment to urban and regional development. We intend to establish an effective and strong Department of Urban and Regional Development with a Minister responsible for the planning and execution of policies. The Department's task will be to initiate and co-ordinate action and planning for urban and regional development. With the co-operation of the State governments we will not only attempt to build new cities but also, more importantly from the point of view of those areas in Victoria which have already been selected by the State Government for accelerated development, we will co-operate with the State Government in the development of these areas. At this stage I would like to reiterate that the Commonwealth still is not in a position to say which areas it will develop. I find it incredible that after all these years and all this research that has been done by Commonwealth and State officials the Government is still not in a position where it can state publicly what its policies are and what areas will be affected. 
I believe that the Federal Government has betrayed the 5 areas in Victoria that were chosen 5 years ago by the State Government for accelerated development. These areas are Bendigo, Ballarat, Wodonga, Portland, and the Latrobe Valley. These are the areas in which active development committees, supported by local councils and conscientous members of the community, have been working very hard to develop their areas in order to increase their prosperity and the quality of life that is being offered to the citizens. They have been disappointed continuously for 5 years because the State Government has not met its obligations and, of course, the Commonwealth Government has been extremely negligent in fulfilling the expectations which the Victorian Government has set for it. It is clear that the Commonwealth Government is not committed to accepting the growth centres accepted by any State governments. In particular, it has given no public assurance that it will develop those areas chosen by Victoria. Indeed, until the recent statement made by the Prime Minister in the House on 19th October the Federal Government was committed neither to the concept of regional growth centres nor even to any Federal role in promoting regional development. Honourable members will recall how often in recent years every attempt by this Party to have a parliamentary investigation into the whole question of decentralisation has been subverted by the Government on the grounds of State rights. Whenever State governments ask for assistance from the Commonwealth Government, the Commonwealth Government continuously raises the argument of State rights as the reason for doing nothing. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  suggested that our interest was new found. In fact, my predecessor, Noel Beaton, moved in this House some 10 years ago for a parliamentary inquiry into decentralisation. It was only some months ago that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  moved a motion calling for a parliamentary inquiry into this matter, and that motion was voted against by every Country Party and Liberal Party member of this House. Since the speech by the Prime Minister, both the Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have made it abundantly clear that the choice of such centres is a matter for future decision. For example, the  Deputy  Leader of the Government,  Mr Anthony,  in a recent Press statement of 5th September in reference to a Press report said: 
The list of growth centres recently named in a Press article was pure speculation. It certainly was not contained in the departmental report which was said to contain it. No decision has been made or could be made on growth centres. This must be a matter for determination at a later date after a national approach was firmly decided on. 
By contrast, the Opposition is committed not only to building new cities but also to sharing with State governments responsibility for development of those areas that have already been chosen. This is a sort of complementary line of policy along with our programme of developing new cities. It would give a positive decision for places such as Albury-Wodonga where the interstate border gives the Commonwealth a special role. 
I have agreed to co-operate with the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  in making my speech brief. I should like to add just a few comments. I represent the city of Bendigo which is a large provincial area. I am concerned at the failure of this Government to move on the question of telephone costs. This problem, which is delaying development in many areas in Australia, has concerned the Bendigo City Council and the Bendigo Development Committee for some time. To the member's df these bodies in particular it was a matter of great disappointment that nothing was done in the Budget to relieve the extremely high costs of telephones and telex. Many of the business people to whom I have spoken in the area that I represent have said again and again that, in fact, the cost of telecommunications acts as a prohibition upon many companies intending to set up in country areas. It is also an obstacle on those companies which intend to expand. 
Of course. It is a policy which ensures that development does not take place. The policy of the Government in refusing to deal with the excessive costs of telephone charges has aroused considerable disappointment throughout the country areas of Australia. I refer to a report in my local newspaper, the 'Bendigo Advertiser' of Friday, 13th October. The Bendigo Development Committee expressed concern at the disadvantage Bendigo faced with non-uniform telephone charges. The article reports Councillor D. E. Elliott as telling the Committee that the matter was getting beyond State control and into the Federal sphere. The article reads: 
He said that 'Bendigo was also in a very awkward position with telephone charges . . . 

 Mr Jack Cohn told the Committee: To get accelerated development in areas selected for accelerated development, concession rates are needed.' 
He added that telephone rates were the few tangible things industries have got against Bendigo. 

 Mr Reg Ham summed up the feeling of the Committee when he stated that unless the Government could assist in this way, it was not sincere. 
This is a matter which is taken very seriously. To assist in this regard would require only minimal cost of the Australian people but the benefits arising from it would be very considerable indeed. I am delighted to be able to say that Labor's policy of supporting those areas which have been chosen by the Victorian Government for accelerated development means that the Labor Party has expressed a firm commitment to the people of Bendigo that their city will be supported by co-operative Commonwealth action in a policy of planned development. 
The decision to reduce telephone and telex charges in Bendigo to the rates operating in the metropolitan area is proof of how sincere we are on this question. I should like to add one final comment. One of the important ways in which decentralisation can be fostered both from an economic point of view and as a means of increasing the educational and cultural opportunities in a city is through the deliberate decentralisation of tertiary education institutions. These not only are labour intensive, and therefore a boost to 'the economy, but most importantly to many groups in the community - such as dentists and doctors, who are in short supply in country areas - to have an institution like this alongside 'the Bendigo Institute of Technology, the Bendigo Teachers College or the School of Nursing would also act as a positive incentive for people to come to Bendigo and to stay there. A university would fill out the range of tertiary education opportunities for their children. I should like to add my own voice at this stage to the very strong move that has been made in Bendigo for some time to have Victoria's fourth university located in Bendigo. I am sure this would be a very significant boost to the economy and cultural development of Bendigo. I strongly support it. 
Yes. There should be a deliberate policy of decentralising Commonwealth offices. Instead, at present there is a very considerable development towards locating Commonwealth Government offices in Melbourne. Some Commonwealth officers should be decentralised in country areas like Bendigo. The policy that the Government announced is certainly an improvement on what it had before. I concede that it is better to have some policy than no policy. At the same time, we are left up in the air. We simply do not know what the policy stands for. I believe that the Australian Labor Party has been more genuine in stating in fairly clear outline the lines of policy it would adopt to improve the quality of life and the economic development of country areas. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) amount, (b) percentage and (c) value of wheat marketed in Australia (i) through the Australian Wheat Board and (ii) outside the Board in (A) each year and (B) all years from and including the year when wheat quotas were introduced. 
I would like to refer very briefly to the position of colleges of advanced education. I believe that in this sector of our tertiary education system once again we are seeing the incompetence of the Federal Government in its refusal to accept a full national responsibility for tertiary education, and advanced education in particular, and also its refusal to do effectively that part which it does accept responsibility for. The colleges of advanced education are faced with yet another 3 years of financial stringency. They are once again faced with the threat of accumulating quotas, rising fees and in general some conditions which are going to force many colleges to train students under the most trying circumstances. This situation is leading to a decline in staff morale in institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education in Victoria. There is a deep seated feeling that the colleges are being treated by the Commonwealth and State governments as secondclass institutions which are being forced to push out more and more students at lower standards. I am not saying that that is the case. I am saying that this is a feeling among staff and there is a very disturbingly low level of morale among staff at these colleges. 
There is a feeling, as I say, that the Commonwealth Government has betrayed its responsibility to them. There is a very serious sense of alarm among many students who feel that they are being given secondrate conditions and who are being asked to work in over-large classes with inadequate equipment and in particular under the most trying physical circumstances where in many cases the institution is still split into 2 sections. So we have this situation in the colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology in Victoria. Why do we have it? We have it basically because this Government refuses to accept a full national responsibility. 
Here is a situation where the Commonwealth Government has the advisory bodies and the intelligence of the most skilled kind which can give it all the first rate recommendations it requires on how to run tertiary education in this nation. In other words, there is a clear argument here that the Commonwealth Government not only has the financial resources at its disposal but also the advisory resources at its disposal to do a first class job on tertiary education, but instead we are finding that the Commonwealth Government is forcing State governments with their stringent treasuries to bear an undue proportion of the costs of running tertiary education. Quite often this results in funds being diverted by State governments from areas of great priority into tertiary education where at least the finances they make available will be matched by the Commonwealth Government. It is time that this system stopped. It is time that the Commonwealth Government accepted at least as a start a SO per cent financial responsibility in tertiary education. It is most desirable that the Commonwealth Government should accept full responsibility for tertiary education. 
We have just seen the end of one triennium of Commonwealth and State government incompetence in the administration of tertiary education, in particular in colleges of advanced education in Victoria. I am not saying that some of the physical facilities and some of the staff facilities have not improved. There has been improvement and that deserves to be praised. But the point is that the job has been run in a rather ad hoc sort of method and college councils and college staff have felt over the last 3 years that almost every day brings a new crisis. It has never been possible for any  one of these councils in Victoria to look forward securely in the knowledge that the finance that they need to run their institutions is there in the sums that they desire. 
Just looking at the 3-year period, 1970-72, the Victorian Institute of Colleges, which is responsible for Victorian institutes and colleges, sought something like $132m from the Commonwealth and State governments for 3 years administration of advanced education. It got only S50m from the Commonwealth and State Governments. The situation is equally disturbing in the present triennium. It depends, of course, on which figures one looks at. If one looks at the figures that sum up the individual college requirements one sees that there has been a cut of something like 52 per cent in the funds that the colleges in Victoria sought. They sought originally from the Victorian Institute of Colleges something like $306m in capital and recurrent expenditure. The colleges got only approximately SI 46m. So there has been a savage cut. These were reasonable estimates submitted in the first place by the colleges. The estimates have always been made within a framework of responsible judgments as to how the institutions could effectively meet the needs of their students. 
If we look now at the next stage where the college estimates were in turn cut by the Victorian Institute of Colleges, we see here again a very savage cut. The Victorian Institute of Colleges sought $23 lm from the Commonwealth and State governments. It received something like $146m. In other words, the colleges have had 37 per cent of the funds that they require hacked off. This is a blow to these colleges. As I say, there is not a sense of clear guidance; there is not a clear sense of direction in the development of these colleges and very few can see beyond the next few months how their needs are going to be met. Let us look at the example of a few colleges. The Victorian Institute of Colleges sought $2 1.1m from the Commonwealth and State governments for building purposes and received only $8.9m. In the case of recurrent costs for staff salary costs and other costs the Institute sought $42. lm and received only $26.7m. This is a large amount of money that has been cut off these institutions. 
The Victorian Institute of Colleges supported the request of the Swanbourne Institute of Technology for $l2.1m for building purposes. The college received only $4. 6m. For salaries it sought $17. 7m and received only S 13.5m. In my area the Bendigo Institute of Technology sought something like S7m for building purposes; $4m was hacked off. It sought something like $6m to pay staff salaries and received only $4m. In other words, there is an institute, a young and growing institute in the centre of Victoria which caters for a large area, losing something like $6m off its requirements. I could give further examples but I will not go any further. Quite clearly when we have cuts of this magnitude in the finances required by colleges we are going to be faced with 2 problems - and the colleges are faced with these problems. Either they have to cut drastically back on the number of students they are going to take in or alternatively they will be forced to lower the standards. They will be forced to spend less per pupil on teaching salaries and other running costs. This is the dilemma that the institutes and colleges are faced with in Victoria. 
Quite clearly there will be thousands of students in Victoria over the next 3 years who will be turned away from the institutes of technology under this sort of funding although they are students who are qualified to enter those institutes. 
And, of course, as the honourable member interjected, we have already seen a process in Victoria whereby free tertiary technical education has been effectively undermined by the State Government. Fees last year rose from $80 a year to $100 a year. I would think that over the next 3 years under this Government's policy fees in Victoria could rise to something like $300 or $400 per annum. This is an inexorable process aimed partly at artificially limiting the number of places in colleges and secondly aimed also by State governments at bolstering funds that they cannot compensate from Commonwealth sources. So there is a disturbing pattern which has been established this year, and certainly this pattern will accelerate. 
We have the situation of the split campus which is a characteristic of all country institutes of technology in Victoria such as those in Bendigo, Geelong, Gippsland, Ballarat and Warrnambool. This quite effectively subverts the whole concept of the community of scholars. It imposes quite intolerable difficulties on students - simple physical difficulties - who are trying to study as tertiary students. We have students travelling miles from one lecture to another. For example, they travel miles from the lecture theatre to the library and miles from the library to the cafeteria. This is a totally inadequate situation. One simply cannot look back on the situation over the 3 years that have just passed and say: T am proud of this'. 
I would like to refer to one point in particular. I think that nothing summarises the second rate deal that the Commonwealth Government and the Victorian Government are handing out to the institutes of technology and the colleges than the way in which they have treated the libraries in these institutions. In the report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education in 1969 very serious concern was expressed as to the quality of library facilities in the institutes of technology. One cannot look now after 3 years and say that there has been any significant improvement because in fact the library situation is quite desperate in many of these places. This state of affairs has been well publicised. It is so serious that the librarians of the colleges of advanced education examined the position and came forward with an estimate of how much would be needed over the 1973-75 period. If I recall correctly they estimated that something like $15m would be required. That was in itself a fairly conservative estimate. However, the Australian Commission on Advanced Education in its new report looked at the situation and expressed concern - rightly so, particularly in the case of country colleges where there is no alternative library facility available. The Committee suggested to the Commonwealth Government that for 1973-75 something like S9.25m would be needed to remedy existing library deficiencies. The Committee stated: 
This figure is conservative since the library committee, in calculating average prices, adopted lower rather than higher estimates of book costs and other costs involved. Because- and here is a very significant thing - the colleges would be unable to cope with grants porting services, the Commission recommends that the Commonwealth Government provide a sum of $5m to be made available to the States on a basis of need and on the advice of the Commission for the development of library materials in colleges of advanced education. 
If I remember correctly the Advisory Committee cut back the original estimate of $15m by the librarians themselves to $9. 5m. The Advisory Committee said: 'If you did purchase, accession and maintain all these books it would cost you a small fortune in extra staff. So that is inconceivable'. So the Committee dropped it down by over $5m. 
Let us see what the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has done. The Minister is very proud of his achievement. I would like to quote from a letter that I received in reply to a complaint 1 made on behalf of the students and staff of the Bendigo Institute of Technology. The letter is dated 19th September 1972. lt states: 
Dear  Mr Kennedy,  1 refer to your telegram of 14th June concerning library facilities in colleges of advanced education. 
The Government recognises the need for some special assistance for libraries in colleges of advanced education. In each of the last two triennia the Commonwealth has provided an unmatched grant of $500,000 for libraries, and on 22nd August in my speech to Parliament on the programme for universities and colleges of advanced education for the 1973-75 triennium, 1 announced that the Commonwealth would make a similar contribution in the 1.973-75 triennium. In addition, the Commonwealth will provide a further amount of up to $lm if States provide a matching sum to promote library development. 
The total effect of these measures will be to make available for libraries $2. 5m in addition to the amounts included in the budgets of individual colleges. 
This is totally inadequate. If the Advisory Committee itself has made the most conservative possible estimate of what is needed - I mean that these are not even minimum standards - then the estimates are totally unrealistic. The Advisory Committee says $5m and the Minister says he is prepared to make it $lm. They say they want an unmatched grant; the Minister says it has to be a matched grant. Where is the guarantee that the States will pay? Perhaps the Minister can inform me. I am not sure that the States have agreed to match this grant but even if they do match it, the sum is quite insignificant in comparison with the outstanding need. Obviously the libraries will not be brought up to tertiary standard. The advisory committee itself emphasises that the quality of library facilities - library study and library research - is an essential part of upgrading these institutes where they compete with universities as genuine tertiary institutions. 
If that is the case the situation in Victoria is still most disturbing because we find that by comparison with the universities the colleges have only about 40 per cent of the number of books per pupil, about one-third the number of magazines per pupil, only about two-thirds the seating facilities and less than half the expenditure per student on library facilities. Yet the universities are increasing their book stocks at 6 times the rate that colleges of advanced education libraries are doing so. In short this is an unfair deal to colleges of advanced education. Looking at the situation of the Bendigo Institute of Technology, despite the efforts of the college council and the staff to upgrade the facilities offered, they have suffered both in the past triennium and in the present triennium a very serious cut in their funds and the money now being spent on books is quite inadequate. From a physical point of view the Institute still has 2 separate libraries, one in the city of Bendigo and the other at Flora Hill. This is a ridiculous and absurd situation. 
I remember speaking here in 1969 on a similar occasion ana expressing concern that the cut in finances meant that the Bendigo Institute of Technology would not be able to go ahead with the building of its library. That library would have been built by now but under the present circumstances the Institute will not be able to move out of its present inadequate accommodation of a lecture room at Flora Hill until the second stage of the applied science building is completed next year and they will not be able to move into the library until 1974. So at present it has inadequate space. The Institute has a quite unjustifiable and disturbing shortage of books. For example, in classes of 30 or 40 students when the students are ordered to do class work they have to use one book. In many cases because of the shortage of books some books cannot even be taken out of the building. In other cases a book can be borrowed for 2 days. There is also the situation where many of the staff have to lend out their own books. This should be unnecessary. It is ridiculous to be running a multi-million dollar institution like this on the cheap. 
It has been difficult for the Institute to get extra library staff. It has been waiting for an extra 2 staff since the beginning of the year and it is only now that it is to get one of them. All in all the situation at Bendigo summarises the overall situation of libraries throughout colleges of advanced education. I am sure that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should be able to do better than provide merely Sim. If he is serious about making these institutions different but equal, surely the first facilities to be provided are libraries. I am concerned also about the position of country colleges in general. Funds for the 5 institutes of technology have been slashed by 50 per cent. They have had $28m lopped off the funds which they require for buildings and staff salaries. That is quite a savage cut and will impede their development quite significantly. I have here a newspaper report of a statement made by the  President  of the Council of the Bendigo Institute of Technology,  Mr Hugh  Mason, and the report states: 
The  president  of the Council of Bendigo Institute of Technology,  Mr H.  Mason, said yesterday - 
The report was published on Saturday 15th July 1972- 
. that the Institute was facing the same difficulties because grants were below the estimates submitted as are faced by other institutes within the Victorian Institute of Colleges. 
The report goes on to quote some figures and then continues: 
These grants will mean that very few additional staff can be employed to cater for the rapidly increasing student enrollment and will almost certainly mean that quotas must be applied to most courses. 
The capital funds will mean that the Applied Science Building Stage 2 can be completed but only part of the library can be erected. 
No union facilities or extensions to the engineering school will be possible. 
The transfer of all the tertiary students to Flora Hill will be delayed in the succeeding  triennia. 
This will cause major problems in administration and many students will be required to work In conditions that are much below tertiary stand' ards', he said. 
There is a responsible spokesman for the Institute expressing his concern. The funds provided for country colleges in general are quite inadequate. There has been a drop of something like 16 per cent in the per capita amount spent on country students. For example, in 1972 a country student had $1,901 spent on him and in the 1973-75 triennium this will drop to $1,607. By comparison the expenditure for each city student will rise by 20 per cent from $1,126 to $1,350 in the coming triennium. It is most essential that these estimates by the Commonwealth and State governments be reviewed urgently. It is quite unfair that this discriminatory treatment should be meted out to colleges of advanced education because for many students, especially those in country areas, these colleges are the only avenue of tertiary education, other than teachers colleges, available to them. 

 - Mr Speaker I have a personal explanation to make. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What sum was (a) allocated and (b) expended by 12th October 1972 on the advertising through (i) radio (ii) television and (iii) newspapers of the new social service benefits and entitlements outlined in the 1972-73 budget. 
On how many occasions and at what cost have such advertisements appeared in (a) the Melbourne Sun, (b) The Age, (c) the Melbourne Herald and (d) The Australian up to 12th October 1972. 
What sums were spent in advertising, in all 3 media, the social service benefits and entitlements which were outlined in (a) the 1971-72 Budget, (b) the mini-Budget of May 1972 and (c) both Budgets. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the estimated average time taken to register a trade mark from the date of application. 
Did the Prime Minister say recently on television that he made the important decisions in his Government and that recently the Government had been faced with the question whether or not there should be an acquisition scheme for wool and that he made the decision on that? Did he take the decision that the Government's policy was against acquisition and a single national marketing authority for the entire wool clip? Has he noticed that the Minister for Primary Industry stated on the weekend that the Government already knows what the new Wool Corporation would recommend for its investigation of acquisition and is he aware that the Minister is now pledging the Government to a policy of acquisition? I ask: Who makes the decisions and what decision has been made? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many private non-Catholic schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth which (i) did not submit returns to questionnaires which his Department sent out in the 1970-71 survey of the needs of independent schools and (ii) sent in returns too late to have their data included in the survey were (A) special schools and (B) other schools traditionally categorised as grammar schools and colleges. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that, as usual, I was under a complete and mischievous misapprehension and did not know what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  had said. I know that the Minister for Primary Industry said what I said he had said. I said that the Minister for Primary Industry knows what the outcome of the Wool Corporation's investigation into acquisition will be and that that investigation will be favourable towards acquisition and that the Minister for Primary Industry is pledging his Government to a policy of acquisition. If that is not what the Minister for Primary Industry is saying, the Minister for Primary Industry plus the Prime Minister should make a clarifying statement right now. 
I would like to follow up a few of the comments made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and express my outrage at the proposal to eliminate the television programme 'Adventure Island' and also to request that this programme not only be continued but that all children's programmes in this country receive extra financial support from the Commonwealth Government. One of the interesting things about the campaign that our committee has noticed is the tremendous enthusiasm that children have for this show. I should like to quote a few of the things that some of the children have said. They show a terrific commitment by the children. Here is a lovely letter by a young child. It is addressed to 'Dear Diddlidumdidlis'. It reads: 
Please keep on going with Adventure Island. My brothers Ben and Hugo and Myself all want you to keep on going. We all like Liza, Clown, Percy and Flower and Sam, chy, Troll and Sue Miser Meany and all the badies. 
I do, indeed. It is firstclass television. I have 2 daughters; one is 3 years old and the other is 5 years old. I will not ask for permission to table these drawings and letters but they are works of art that I keep in my office here. 
 This one is a very flattering portrait of some members on the other side of the House. These are a good reminder to me of my children while I am in this place and they are an indication of the sort of artistic enthusiasm which this programme 'Adventure Island' brings out in children. One of the drawings depicts Flowerpot' . Another is a drawing of Betty and it is beautifuL These letters and drawings tell the message better than generalisations about television. These show how enthusiastic children are about this splendid show on the ABC. Here is another letter: 
Dear ABC, 
Please do not stop Adventure Island. We enjoy it very much and there are very little Australian programmes. 1 am nine years old. 
Here is another one with a picture. It reads: 
To Diddley dam diddley, please I do not want Adventure Island taken ofl because its so much fun and Joy please write back. 
I do not know whether Diddley dum diddley did write back. That letter continues: 
I want yon back because I hate Sesame Street Love from Sally Bray. 
Here is another letter addressed to Sue: 
 That is correct. The parents want their children to grow in imagination and to have spiritual, mental, aesthetic, social and moral development. They are suggesting in the letters to us that it is only such a programme that is capable of creating this sort of ethos by which children can be influenced. They suggest, and I agree, that the product is one which will produce good young Australians. The parents and the children who have, written have expressed concern that what commercial television is producing are 'basically passive consumers who are being bombarded with advertising and dull, stupid, unimaginative, boring, repetitive and in many cases American imported cartoons and films that are 20 to 30 years old. One cannot help but look with dismay at such programmes as 'Kattanooga Kats'. Such programmes are quite unimaginative for children and they are stupefying and evoke no response or development in the child whatever. I think that the decision by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which so far has not been explained, to abolish this programme is a bad one. From the response that I have seen, I would regard it as being a tragedy for the young children of this country. One of the basic reasons why this programme has been dropped is that the ABC is not receiving the funds it needs. Rather than cutting back on current affairs programmes it is cutting back on children's programmes. I repeat that I have the fullest admiration for this programme. 1 think that has an artistry and an integrity not matched by any other children's programme in Australia. It should not be abolished. It should be continued and strengthened. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many applications for benefits under (a) the general eligibility condition for pensions, and (b) the eligibility for superannuitants and others entitled to concessional treatment, referred to in part 1 (b) of the answer to question No. 6S32 (Hansard, 25th October '1972), had been (i) received and (li) processed by Wednesday, 25th October 1972. 
What number and percentage of those in each case that had been processed were (a) approved, and (b) rejected. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In view of the difficulty and delay in providing an answer to part (1) of question No. 5360 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 23rd March 1972, will he provide details immediately as to how many pupils (a) sat for and (b) were awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships at (i) Sydney Grammar School, (ii) King's School, Parramatta, (iii) Knox Grammar, Sydney, (iv) Brisbane Grammar, (v) Wesley College, Melbourne, (vi) Geelong Grammar, (vii) Melbourne Grammar and (viii) Xavier College, Melbourne from the date of introduction of the scheme to and including the 1971 examination. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students at Methodist Ladies College, Hawthorn, Victoria, have  (a)  sat for and 
been awarded Commonwealth secondary scholarships in examinations held up to and including the 1971 examination. 
What is the estimated total sum for which the successful students at this school have been eligible on the basis of each scholarship being worth $800. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What are the names and what is the number of (a) Roman Catholic, (b) other private and (c) government schools to whose official functions to open (i) science facilities, (ii) library facilities, (iii) both facilities, financed wholly or partly through the Government's science facilities programme and libraries programme, he has either (A) officially taken part in or (B) attended in each year since he became Minister for Education and Science. 
What is the sum for which (a) each of these schools and (b) all schools in each category has been assessed as eligible in. respect of (i) science grants, (ii) library grants and (iii) both grants as at the latest date for which such an assessment has been made. 
Insofar as he has attended or participated in functions held at government schools and may lack specific information, required to answer these questions in relation to those schools, will he obtain the necessary information from the relevant State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) date and (b) nature of any seminars, lectures, discussions or meetings held for liaison purposes between his Department and school principals in each State relating to the secondary schools (i) science facilities programme and (ii) libraries programme in the 3 years ended 30th June 1972. 
What number and percentage of the principals who (a) were invited and (b) attended were from (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other private schools. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Do the total capital and recurrent funds approved before the end of June 1972 by the State and Commonwealth Governments for Victoria's 5 country Colleges of Advanced Education for the 1973-73 triennium represent a cut of 50 per cent on the total funds requested on their behalf by the Victoria Institute of Colleges. 
If so, (a) will this cut have a severe effect on the planned growth of these colleges through a restriction of building programmes, new courses, and student intake and (b) what steps has he taken to provide additional funds to enable these colleges to implement their plans for development. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did he communicate with any private schools in any way to request that they not participate in the survey which his Department made in 1970-71 into the needs of private schools. (21 If so, with which schools did be communicate for this purpose, and why. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Does his reply to question No. 4971 (Hansard, 9th May 1972, page 2265) mean that no formal request has been made to him in 1971 or 1972 by private school authorities for an increase in Commonwealth aid to private schools. 
If not, what does it mean. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did he state in reply to question No. 5783 (Hansard, 31st August 1972, page 1112) that of those private schools which had not submitted data on their needs by 22nd February 1971, after having 7 months to do so, several indicated that staffing difficulties had delayed their completion of the questionnaires. 
How many non-Catholic private schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth (i) did not submit the returns by 22nd February and (ii) did not submit any returns at all. 
What number and percentage of these schools were (a) handicapped schools and (b) schools other than special schools for the handicapped. 
How many is the 'several' referred to in part (I), and how many schools in each State alleged staffing difficulties as the cause of their delay. 
How many of these schools were (a) special schools for the handicapped and (b) schools other than special schools for the handicapped. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many Roman Catholic (a) primary schools and (b) secondary schools in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth on whose behalf Catholic education authorities submitted statements of their final needs for 1971- 75 to his Department, showed that their (a) recurrent funds and Cb) capital funds available for 1971-75 would exceed desirable expenditure. 
How many pupils did these schools expect to have enrolled in (a) 1971 and (b) 1975. 
What were the total sums for (a) teaching staff salaries, (b) buildings, (c) land and (d) all these types of expenditure which these (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth (1) regard as desirable expenditure, (II) expected to have available and (HI) expected to have as a surplus in (A) recurrent funds, (B) capital funds and (C) both types of funds. 
What percentage of (a) pupils in Catholic (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools were attending schools where such surpluses were expected and (b) all Catholic (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools expected such surpluses. 
In regard to schools expecting such surpluses, what was the average surplus per (i) primary pupil and (ii) secondary pupil for 1971-75 expected in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth for (I) recurrent purposes, (II) capital purposes and (III) both purposes. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What countries have made requests to purchase wheat from Australia since 1st January 1972 which the Australian Wheat Board has (a) not accepted and (b) met only partially. 
What is the quantity of wheat involved in each category in each and all of these cases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Minister claim in a Press statement on 22nd February 1972 that the Department of Health was conducting an operation in Wollongong to publicise the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. 
If so, did the Minister claim that Wollongong had been chosen for the pilot project because it facilitated a quick assessment of the results of intensive publicity allied with personal contact and counselling. 
Did the Minister also say that the methods found most successful in the Wollongong project would be used for further promoting the Plan throughout the rest of Australia. 
What was the (a) number and (b) nature of means of publicity used in the project through (i) radio, (ii) television, (iii) the Press and (iv) other media. 
Were poor results achieved from the project and has the Minister decided that the cost of similar means of publicity on a national basis would be prohibitive; if so, is it a fact that it has been decided not to go ahead with any substantial increase in the scale of advertising used to date. 
In view of the Government's refusal to lift the qualifying income limits, does this indicate that no serious action is contemplated to increase substantially the present number of low-income earners enrolled in the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What sum per student was spent for students at (a) universities and (b) colleges of advanced education in (i) each State Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth In 1970-71. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many private schools in (a) each State and Territory and (b) the Commonwealth have made inquiries of any kind of him or his Department concerning the operation of the new capital aid scheme for private schools as announced by the Prime Minister on 11th May 1972, or concerning their eligibility for assistance under the scheme. 
How many schools in respect of which inquiries have been made are schools not yet in existence but planned for establishment in the future. 
What are the (a) numbers and (b) names of the schools in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) the Commonwealth in respect of which written applications have been made for assistance under the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
On what dates did the Bills establishing (a) the secondary schools science facilities programme and (b) the secondary schools libraries programme pass both Houses. 
By what approximate dates, following inspections of schools within the (a) Catholic and (b) non-Catholic private sector in Victoria by representatives of the respective standards committees, did his Department have (i) a full account of the needs of all schools within each sector with respect to (A) science and (B) library facilities and (ii) an outline of priorities in the granting of assistance to individual schools. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did he state, in a letter to The Age of 24th July 1972, that the standards of science laboratories and libraries being constructed with Commonwealth funds in State schools generally tend to be comparable to those in private schools. 
If so, is it equally valid to state that the standards of science laboratories and libraries being built in State schools generally tend not to be comparable to those in private schools. 
In what ways are the standards of (a) science laboratories and (b) libraries at present being built in Victorian State schools (i) inferior to or (II) different from those being built in private schools. 
