I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise: What positive action has the Government taken to control the export of kangaroo hides and manufactured goods of kangaroo leather such as athletic track shoes, which is now becoming a very big business? Is the report true that an American firm has placed an order for one million skins for this year alone. What action has been taken in conjunction with the States to stop or control the marketing of kangaroo meat for pet food and in general to co-operate with the State governments to preserve our unique fauna and flora? 
 The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  could not criticise the defence statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  so he ridiculed it. I do not think the security of Australia or a situation where, as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as I know and as the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and others in this House know, we have Australian troops still at war with troops dying in the field is a fit subject for ridicule. The honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  criticised the Government first of all for not having done sufficent up to the present time. Now he criticises the Government for, he says, doing too much too quickly. What does the Opposition mean? The Opposition has stated quite clearly that its policy is to withdraw troops from Vietnam, to chicken out of it and to leave our allies in the lurch. Is that the policy that is supported by members of the Opposition? It is the policy which is advocated by the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party. And the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the modern mini-Napoleon, not retreating from Moscow but in his advance to Moscow, has the roads scattered with people whom he has first of all backed and then betrayed - the Harradines, the Wyndhams and other people. In the same way the Labor Party with its policy is betraying those whom originally it supported. 
I congratulate the Government on the clearest defence statement that I have heard in this House for a long time, lt stated the defence needs and it stated the defence priorities. Although one might not agree with several items in the programme or the crossing of the fs or dotting of the fs, it at least stated to our allies in the region in which we live, to our big brothers - always called SC - in America and others, exactly where Australia stands, as long as this Government is in power. The Opposition takes an entirely opposite view. This statement abolished the old wraiths and ghosts that have been wandering round frightening many people in Australia with the idea of a Fortress Australia which the Labor Opposition now advocates. I was in Fortress Singapore, and so was the honourable member for Reid, and T do not think that either of us would want to be in a fortress of that nature again. 
The Government has made it quite clear in the statement of the Minister for Defence that Australia is not going to retreat into isolation, that Australia realises that it lives in this region of the world and that within our limited capacity, as far as we can, we will stand up to support our allies and play our part in the defence of the security of this region. Without that security what is the use of economic aid and helping people to raise their standards of living and everything that goes with it? The statement was a clear and concise confirmation that we are not only members of the region but are prepared to play our part. I congratulate the Minister and the Government on the statement. All nations in this region are small, comparatively speaking.  We  can do only a certain amount against a more powerful aggressor. We have to  act  and take our share of that responsibility but we have to rely also on other people to help us. They will not help us if we do not take our share of the responsibility, yet the Opposition is saying: 'Let us get rid of it altogether. We can live in isolation on our own'. That is perfectly ridiculous as history over the last 10 years, if not the last 50 years, shows, 
I have had experience in 2 world wars and have been lucky enough to survive them. Anybody who has been in that position takes no delight in asking the younger generation of Australians today to go forth once again, unfortunately, in the interests of the security of Australia and our allies. Everybody would like to see peace, peaceful co-operation and peaceful coexistence, but today some nations are using peaceful co-existence as a blind to cover up their steady advance towards world conquest. I do not believe  for a  minute that a world war is likely, not at present anyhow, but we will continue to be faced with the guerilla type of warfare, or brush warfare, aided and abetted by psychological warfare which not many people seem to understand. It is something to which  we  must pay more attention. 
I should like now to make a few remarks about the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition yesterday when he was speaking to the Address-in-Reply. He said that he was not going to deal with defence, but spent almost the entire time at his disposal in talking on 2 matters. 
But they were related  to  defence.  The  two matters were conscription and pay and other factors in the Services.  I was a  volunteer in two world  wars. 
I was not the only one. The honourable member was a volunteer. He belonged to the artillery and ever since he came he seems to have been putting over a barrage of blanks and briefs and brainwashing instead of bullets, which is just as dangerous. If honourable members refer back to the period 500 B.C. they will realise that some of the nations today are working on the old strategy of the Chinese General Sun Tzu who said, in effect: 'If you want to conquer a people send in your agents to brainwash them and undermine their morale. Send your army in as a last resort after you have weakened their fibre and undermined their capacity to resist.' This is what is going on in America, in Australia, and in other places today and if we do not win the war in South Vietnam it will be because we have lost it at home by making such speeches as that made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party in this debate. The volunteer system is fine. The attitude is: Send somebody else to do the job, as long as I do not have to go.' I think it was  President  Abraham Lincoln who said that the volunteer system was a hideout for cowardly politicians. 
We have more than the Opposition. There are more returned diggers on this side than there are on the other, but I am not criticising the Opposition for that. There are reasons why some people could not go and I am not going to say that this one should have gone and that one should not have gone. I had the honour just after leaving school - and I mention this lest it might be thought that I am referring to public school boys only - to have as my first command a platoon of wharf labourers from Williamstown. 
They were patriots who understood the position a damn sight better than the honourable member did. They were a fine crowd of men. At least 80% of those waterside workers were prospective leaders, small and large, in their own calling. Half of them still remain on Gallipoli. If we are going to rely on a volunteer system in time of war - and this is nothing new to me - we are wasting our best material and leaving the others behind, not all of them, because some cannot go and a large number remain to procreate their own kind. Some of the trouble in Great Britain today stems from the fact that in war she lost her leaders from all sections of society and she lost the children that were never born to them. If we have a job to do in the interests of the security of our nation everybody has the duty as well as the right to play his part. If we cannot have universal training then selected national service is the fairest form we can have. It was criticised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who said that if we gave our soldiers higher pay we would get recruits. 
Yes, I do, because the pay in the Australian Army today for the non-commissioned officers and the privates is the highest in the world except for Canada. 
It is no good the honourable member protesting. He produces arguments out of the air and says that they are facts and does not prove them. Britain has gone back to the voluntary system and is reducing her Army. The United Kingdom Secretary of State for Defence,  Mr Healey,  said the other day that he was seriously concerned at the way recruiting was falling off because Britain could not keep her reduced forces up to standard. Canada, which has the highest pay in the world, is not at war and is not interested in this region, is finding that recruiting is falling off. We might be able to get volunteers if we had 5% to 6% unemployment as there is in the United States of America at present. Perhaps that is why the Gates Commission recommended the volunteer system. But does anybody suggest that we should so try to organise our economic set-up in Australia that we have 5% to 6% unemployment in order to force those who cannot get a job to volunteer for the Army, which is a more risky job than one at home? This would not be fair, right or in the interests of the nation. I hope that we will hear no more of this from the Opposition. 
The other matter to which I want to refer was only lightly touched on and that is the question of our responsibilities in the Indian Ocean. Not only are we part of the region of South East Asia; we are also vitally interested in the Indian Ocean. I am delighted to know that the Government is starting work on the naval base at Cockburn Sound - it is starting too slowly - and also that it is building up the air bases at both Learmonth and Pearce. I think that those air and naval stations on the west coast will be of increasing importance. The Communist attempt at world conquest today has two objectives. One is to capture the rice bowl of South East Asia and the other is to take over the Cape route and command the only all-weather route from the Atlantic into the Indian and Pacific oceans. The Cape today, irrespective of whether you like the internal policies of South Africa, Rhodesia or Portugal - 
No, I am not particularly in support of some of the things that are going on there and 1 agree with you, but they are their internal policies and as was said by the man whom I consider to be the best leader in Africa: If I co-operate with them I have more chance of changing what I dislike than of driving more and more into the arms of the extreme right wing by ostracising them'. The pattern today is that Russia is steadily coming down the African continent in order to take over the Cape because the Cape is the Gibraltar of the international situation today. 
Perhaps you will learn something some time. Some 95% of Europe's oil goes round the Cape every day, and whoever owns or controls the Cape route can control the jugular vein of Europe. Do you think that Russia does not know that, and also that southern Africa is one of the richest mineral areas in the world? I do not want to insult Russia. I do not want to be nasty to Russia. I would rather have peaceful co-existence, but what hypocrisy Russia exhibits in this psychological warfare when the Soviet Embassy in Canberra on 31st January puts out a long document saying what a heinous crime against humanity it would be if the Israelies bombed the Aswan dam, one of the greatest and best construction works that has been carried out for a long time. 
I do. 
Yes, and I hope it does not happen. But does the honourable member for Hunter, the member for safari suits, who called me a racist but who went there as a guest of the  Speaker  of the South African Parliament 
You went there as a guest. What hypocrisy it is to say that of the Aswan Dam and at the same time to train terrorists in the use of explosives and in destruction and to supply them with explosives to stop construction of the Cabora Bassa Dam on the lower Zambesi in Mozambique which will produce almost twice as much electricity as the Aswan Dam and will provide irrigation and all sorts of aids to raise the standard of living of all the races in the surrounding areas. The same Soviet Embassy which says that it would be a crime if ever the Aswan Dam was bombed is doing its best to stop construction of the Cabora Bassa Dam. 
The Russians have control of most of the Middle East; they control the entrance to the Red Sea and they have had their fishing fleet in St Grandis, the port in Mauritius, for the past 3 months carrying out surveys in Mozambique channel under contract to Mauritius. As a result of supporting Lagos against the lbos in Nigeria they now have a base from which to operate on the west coast of Africa. You cannot be blind to these things. Why are they doing it? Why are they supporting the Arab north against the African south? The whole trend of the operation is eventually to take over southern Africa. Or again, why this mixture of politics and sport? It did not start with South Africa; it started at the Melbourne Olympics in 1956 when Egypt, of all countries, together with Holland, Spain and one other refused to come to the Melbourne Olympics because Russia had invaded Hungary and had been allowed to compete - nothing at all to do with South Africa. But now it is being used to stir up hatred and animosity against the southern part of Africa to help the Communists take it over and go ahead with their objective of world conquest. 
Surely you understand that the Cape is our only safe trade route and that we should be cooperating in policing it. lt has a very great deal to do with the defence of the whole of the west coast of Australia. If you do not understand that, you have no right to be in this Parliament. You are in opposition but perhaps you will learn after you have been here a bit longer. It has a very great deal to do with the defence of both the Indian and Pacific oceans which wash our shores. I hope that more attention will be given to that phase. 
One more thing I should like to say is that America is not always right, even with the Gates Commission, because apparently despite all the research officers that the  President  had he made his speech on ]8th February praising the Lusaka conference for advocating negotiations with South Africa instead of the use of force. That was in April last year. Apparently his researchers did not know on 4th January this year they had another Lusaka conference which reversed the whole proceedings. So it is very difficult for the ordinary person to understand the ins and outs of these international movements and the necessity for defence. 
I congratulate the Government on the statement that was made. As I said at the outset, I believe that it is the best statement on defence we have had in this House for a very long time. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. As the Budget allocation for war service homes has already been spent, causing the re-introduction of a 4 months waiting period, will the Government give consideration to a no-waiting period for those who have served in the Vietnam war as distinct from those who served in earlier wars and who have delayed applying for their rehabilitation rights and benefits under the Act until this financial year? 
 This debate, for the first time in a very long period - in fact it is almost the first time I can remember - started with an honourable member of this House rising and quoting May's 'Parliamentary Practice'. This was often done in the State House in Victoria when I was a member. Members on both sides of the House generally referred to May when taking points of order, as the honourable Member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  will remember. We were in the House together. 1 listened with great interest to the discussion on this matter. I hold that, according to May's "Parliamentary Practice' your ruling is entirely in order,  Mr Speaker.  May, at page 406 of that book, refers in paragraph (3) to this particular form of amendment and says: 
This is effected by moving the omission of all or most of the words of the question after the word 'That' at the beginning and by the substitution of an alternative proposition (which must, however, be relevant to the subject of the question). 
When discussing a previous motion I referred to what I considered to be the relevance of the question. The paragraph continues: 
In the case of amendments of this type the proposal of the question 'That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question' places before the House two alternative propositions, contained in the motion and in the amendment respectively, between which the House has to make a preliminary choice before deciding finally to agree to either of them. Consequently, if the words proposed to be left out are ordered not to stand part of the question, this vote does not by itself express a decision against the motion, but only a preference for taking  a  decision upon the alternative proposition contained in the amendment. If, however, the words of the amendment are added, and the main question, so amended, is agreed to, the original motion may be regarded as having been negatived by implication. This depends both upon the fact that the amendment has been agreed to and upon the fact that its terms are such as to imply disagreement with the motion. A motion, from which all or most of the words after 'That' have been left out without other words having been added, has not in strictness been decided and may be  submittetd  again in substance to the decision of the House.  1 think that makes it quite clear that your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  is in order. Finally, I quote from page 407:  lt is important to observe that the question whether the proposition contained in  a  superseded motion has been decided depends, not upon the fact that its words have been omitted, but rather upon the nature of the amendment by which the motion has been superseded. 
The proposed amendment should not be confined to a mere negation of the terms of the motion, as the proper mode of expressing a contrary opinion is by voting against  a  motion without seeking to amend it. 
I hold that the amendment is not just a direct negation, but contains other things besides. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  according to May's 'Parliamentary Practice', which was quoted originally in the first part of the discussion, I hold that your ruling is quite in order. 
As one of the dwindling number of Light Horsemen still riding around the landscape of Australia, I would like on their behalf to pay my share of tribute to a Light Horseman who has served his country so well in peace and war. 
I desire to ask the Minister for the Navy the following question: How many Russian spy ships alias survey ships have been sighted in recent weeks off the Australian coast, and at what locations? Did Royal Australian Air Force planes quite by accident when on a routine exercise discover one of the survey ships - or Russian Pueblo, if you like it better - accompanied by a submarine when it was situated south of Kangaroo Island monitoring or listening in on Woomera and Pine Creek? Did the ship close down all electronic and radio circuits as soon as the RAAF planes were discovered by them to be in the vicinity? Was the sighting reported and if not, why not? If it was reported, was the incident made public? 
particularly the 'big red' species - is now so low that they may become extinct. As a tourist attraction the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to Australia. It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
The petitioners pray that the export of kangaroo products be banned immediately and that the Commonwealth Government take steps to bring control of wildlife under its jurisdiction. Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. What is the latest information regarding any action taken by the Government in conjunction with the State gover.ments to preserve our unique flora and fauna? Will the Government take any notice of the greatest number of petitions in recent times presented to this Parliament on any one subject, namely the preservation of kangaroos? Does he know that 1 country business in Queensland with 16 employees cannot keep pace with overseas orders for kangaroo skin products? 
 I will be very brief. I thank the Minister for saying that he will have another look at this matter. I support the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  in what they have said about it. The provision can be included as an amendment in another place. Spectacles are provided free in repatriation cases, and I cannot see any reason at all why the provision should not apply under these conditions in the case of the health scheme. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 6a. 
The honourable member would not understand because he has not bothered to ascertain what is happening. 
The honourable member is not quite sure whether he is Cohen or coming. He may say that it is rot, but he has not bothered to examine Australia's security. I do not want to introduce racism into the debate. 
Well, why does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  accuse the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  and me of being racist because wc go to see what is happening in South Africa, but say nothing about he honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and a Labor Party senator visiting South 
Africa as guests of the  Speaker  of the South African Parliament? The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  should not be so silly. We are talking now about Australia's future security and filling the vacuum in the Indian Ocean. So the matter of Cockburn Sound becomes a very great importance. In 1967-68 after the closing of the Suez Canal, 12,367 foreign ships sailed via the Cape route. Many others did not bother to call at South African ports. Britain led with almost 3,000, followed by the Netherlands with 1,173. Japan and America with slightly more than 700, Liberia and Norway with a little more than 600, then followed Germany, Greece, France and Sweden. Following Britain's abrogation of the Simonstown agreement it is interesting to note what warships have been using the Cape route. When I was in Simonstown I saw a British frigate flying the White Ensign in for repairs and revictualling, yet Britain . has abrogated the agreement and refused to honour it, apparently because she thinks ships can sail over the Kalahari Desert. Since the closing of the Suez Canal in July 1967 a total of 121 British warships and 40 British fleet auxiliaries have made use of the Simonstown naval harbour. In the same period 47 British warships and 84 British fleet auxiliaries made use of other South African ports. In addition, 27 warships and 15 fleet auxiliaries of other nations made use of ports in that period. 
This is why I submit that Cockburn Sound becomes of vital importance with regard to the Indian Ocean and the southern seas, and therefore with regard to the security of Australia in the link-up with Simonstown in South Africa. For those who have not studied the subject might I recommend that they obtain from the Library a document entitled The Changing Strategic Naval Balance USSR v. USA', prepared at the request of the United States House of Representatives Armed Services Committee and incorporated in the Congressional Record of December 1968. In that document will be found many references of vital importance to Australia. The first appears on page 22 and reads: 
Reference already has been made to the need for American  sca  power in the Indian Ocean. Indeed, throughout the southern hemisphere there is developing a need for mobile sea and air forces with  a  role of protecting friends and allies of the 
United States. The expanding commitments for the 1970s cannot be met with naval forces created for commitments in 1940 and the 1950s. 
I understand that the Minister for the Navy has seen this document and has referred to it on two or three public occasions. If anybody wants to understand the position I can recommend this as a short but most interesting document. It is prepared by former Commanders-in-Chief in the Pacific, such as Admiral Fleet and many other Service Chiefs. The authorities who prepared the document are listed. At page 33 the document reads: 
The Indian Ocean presents a broad spectrum of opportunities for the use of naval power to achieve political goals. Bordering the Indian Ocean are a number of nations that are potential targets of Soviet aggression. The aggressor state has the advantage in that many of the countries around the rim of the Indian Ocean are in ferment. The East African countries, for example, arc vulnerable to Soviet military pressure and subversion. 
If the USSR deploys a strike naval squadron in the Indian Ocean, including helicopter carriers and naval infantry, the options available to the Soviets will multiply unless there is a powerful free world countering force. 
That is why the proposed base at Cockburn Sound is vital for the maintenance of a free world countering force should it become necessary. 
I regard the second half the motion as being not particularly important but I feel it would be of great advantage in exercising some police authority on this southern route if Britain would base one or two of its aircraft carriers on Cockburn Sound for three or four years. That would allow us some time to procure for the Royal Australian Navy the modern, fast, helicopter carrying and vertical take off and landing aircraft carriers which are not as vulnerable as the bigger ships but are just as effective for countering submarines. When we consider the rate at which Russia has been building up its submarine force, and the number of up to date ships in the navy of the USSR as compared with out of date ships in the navy of the USA, the potential is there. We hope that the potential never will be used but in this world there are human passions, human hates and human fears. We have seen plenty of violence and visciousness over the last 3 years both inside and outside our own country. Unless there is a counter force 1 feel that we are going to be in grave danger. 
Therefore my hope in moving this motion has been that this matter will be discussed freely from the point of view of the importance of west coast defence. Having a naval base there, not only for our own use but for the use of our allies, will help to fill the vacuum that will be created in the Indian Ocean. As I said before, everyone who has the peace and progress of the world at heart yearns for peaceful coexistence or peaceful co-operation. But at present all the signs and portents in the international sky are that this slogan is being used as a cloak to cover strategic moves for world conquest. We live in a human world in which force and fraud prosper if they are not contained. In 1942, Australia, under a Labor Prime Minister and a Labor Government, appealed loudly to the United States for help against an aggressor. I think we all agreed with that appeal. But today the Australian Labor Party denies to South Vietnam that same right of appeal. As I said, I have been in a so-called fortress and I do not want to be in another. Therefore Australia must play her part in the world today and share the burden of defence in the Indian Ocean. The Cockburn Sound base is vital not only for Australia but for the western world. 
 We have heard a lot of argument from both sides of the House, both on Friday last and today, on what was said and what was done at various meetings with State Ministers and what has happened since. After listening to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the statements made by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  1 feel that irrespective of words there has been room on both sides for an honest difference of opinion or interpretation as to what was said or what was intended by the words that were said. 
Personally, I agree with the interpretation of the honourable member for Farrer; but that does not mean that I will vote for the amendment - the vote of censure - put forward by the Australian Labor Party. The Opposition, as a matter of tactics, has moved a vote of censure and has been loud in its demand foi State rights. But everybody in this House knows that the Federal policy of the Labor Party is to wipe out State parliaments and to put all power in the hands of the Federal Parliament. Therefore, it is almost a comedy to hear members of the Labor Party standing up and supporting State rights. They have no real sympathy with the States, (f this vote of censure were carried, it might well lead to a further erosion of State powers. 
But this does not mean that I will vote for the Bill. I believe that the States should be consulted further on this matter and that there is room for considerably more discussion. I believe that, if that occurs, as the Prime Minister has now promised  -  I take it from his statement in the House today that there will be further discussions with the States - these matters, which are of great importance internationally and nationally, can be settled amicably and reasonably. Therefore, I reserve my decision on the Bill itself until the results of those discussions are known. In the meantime, if members of the Opposition think ! am a political donkey to be attracted by a bunch of their carrots, they have another think coming. 
1 ask the Postmaster-General: Did the authoress of 'Love is a Many Splendoured Thing' recently visit Australia? Was she given so much time by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to promulgate the thoughts of Mao Tse-tung that she herself was so surprised and delighted that she publicly expressed her warmest thanks to the ABC? Was a recent ministerial visitor from Nationalist China offered similar time on ABC television? If not, why not, if the ABC wishes to be regarded as impartial? 
Some time ago, at the beginning of this session, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  made a request to the Government for one of the diesel electric engines of the Commonwealth Railways to be named after the late Right Honourable J. B. Chifley. 1 support that request very strongly. I was staggered when I beard it to find that no engine had already been named after him, because it seems to have become a habit that these engines should be named after people who have been a Minister, Prime Minister or prominent in railway transport, matters. In my humble opinion the late  Mr Chifley  had more to to do with the diesel electric engines originally coming to Australia than anyone else, except perhaps the late  Sir Harold  Clapp. 
About the middle of 1947 I became the Minister for Transport in Victoria. I remember walking down the rather long steps in front of Parliament House in Victoria with the late  Sir Harold  Clapp after a conference at Parliament House. He said to me: 'Why do we not buy diesel electric engines?' Having been away at the war for a long time, I did not know very much about diesel electric engines and I could not answer him. I went down to the Victorian Railway Commissioners and repeated the question. I asked: 'Why do we not buy diesel electric engines?' My Commissioners at that time had serious doubts as to whether the road beds were sufficiently strong and whether the curves were not too sharp to take the diesel electric engines. I said: 'Well, go away and investigate whether we should buy them or not'. After about 3 months they came back and said: 'We want to buy 19 diesel electric engines'. J immediately arranged to have an interview with the late Eddie Ward, the Commonwealth 
Minister for Transport, and the late Right Honourable J. B. Chifley, who was then the Prime Minister. We discussed the matter of diesel electric engines. At that time, with post-war reconstruction, there was considerable difficulty in obtaining sufficient foreign exchange if we wanted to buy, as recommended at that time, the American diesel electric engine. 
After a discussion I arranged with the late  Mr Chifley  that we should send  Mr Oscar  Meyer overseas. He was then one of the leaders of the backroom boys whom  Sir Harold  Clapp had working on the standardisation of railways.  Mr Meyer  had a very fine Army career in the Engineer Corps and he had a very high reputation as a railway engineer. As I said, we arranged that he should be sent overseas to make the investigations in both Britain and in America. The Commonwealth Government, through the late  Mr Chifley,  said that it would pay half the cost, and 1, on behalf of the Victorian Government, arranged to pay the other half.  Mr Oscar  Meyer went overseas, came back and said that he regretted that he could not recommend the British diesel electric engine at that time as, owing to difficulties during the war which were not encountered in America, they had not got what are popularly known as the 'bugs' out of the English diesel electric engines. The late  Mr Chifley  was a bit worried about this because we would require quite a large amount of foreign exchange if we were to buy the American engines in toto and import them into Australia. I then went overseas with the then Victorian Premier, the Honourable T. T. Hollway. While in Britain I had a long talk to the head of the firm that was manufacturing the English diesel electric engines. I went so far as to say: All right. We want to buy the English diesel electrics. If you are first in it will probably mean that the whole of the railways in Australia will buy the English machine. But because they are not really in complete working order you would have to establish a repair depot in Victoria until such times as the engines themselves have been brought up to a high stale of efficiency.' If I remember rightly, 1 was told that we were a primary producing country and they' had no intention of establishing a repair depot. 
When I arrived back in Australia I had a further talk with the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Chifley.  At that time an Australian company had arranged with an American company to build all of the diesel electric engines, except the necessary electricity machinery which would have to be imported. As a result the late  Mr Chifley  then gave me, as the Victorian Minister, authority to go ahead and order 18 of these diesel electric engines. I think about 3 months later the Commonwealth Railways, through the Chief Commissioner, asked whether it could include another 9 engines in that order. This made 28 engines in all. That is how diesel electric engines were introduced in the Australian railways system. 

 Sir Harold Clapp was the main instigator, but through the support of the late  Mr Chifley  we in the Victorian Government were able to get the foreign exchange that was necessary to go ahead with the ordering of these machines. For that reason I feel that the request of the honourable member for Chifley was a very correct one. The first diesel engine in Victoria to run on rails was named after  Sir Harold  Clapp. The first diesel engine to run in the Commonwealth Railways was named after a later Prime Minister who, as much as I respect him, had nothing to do with the diesel electric engines being introduced into Australia. Therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that the Government will take note of the request of the honourable member for Chifley and rectify an omission which should have been rectified long ago, in my humble opinion. 
 My question to the Treasurer is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Bradfield. Now that the Government has decided as a fundamental policy that all university staff members automatically shall receive increased salaries in accordance with minimum wage decisions, when does the Government propose to apply the same fundamental principle to all repatriation and civil pensions? 
