My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Is he aware that Australian casualties in Vietnam are rising at an alarming rate? For example, last Saturday week the 8th Battalion lost 8 men killed and 15 men wounded. In the 6th Battalion 1 man was killed and 13 were wounded. Since then another 6 men have been killed or have died of wounds and much larger numbers have been wounded. In view of the fact that the United States of America is in the process of withdrawing - and consequently its casualties are markedly declining - will the Minister inform the leader of the Australian Task Force that he does not support the leader's statement of last week in which he said: Now is the time to hit the enemy harder'? Furthermore will the Minister inform the House of the action he is prepared to take in order to ensure that Australian casualties are reduced and, if possible, eliminated pending an alteration in the Government's present callous policy of refusing to take immediate action to limit our commitment progressively? 
This is the first occasion on whichI have had the privilege to speak in this place on behalf of my people, some 100,000 Australians in the State of Queensland,the electors of Bowman and their families. The Federal electorate of Bowman, 332 square miles in area, is based mainly on the capital city of Brisbane, taking in residential' suburbs on the shores of Moreton Bay and to the south east of the city. In addition it encompasses the islands of the Bay and the lush farmlands, some of which are now developing in the new role of residential areas, in an area well known as the Redlands and often suitably called the salad bowl of Brisbane. 
It is surely permissible for me to take a few moments of honourable members' time to mention that it is significant in this 27th Federal Parliament that the electors of Bowman have once again chosen to be represented by the Australian Labor Party. The electorate has been named after David Bowman, one time leader of the Labor Opposition in the Queensland Parliament. David Bowman entered Parliament in 1899, the year the Parliament of the colony of Queensland debated the Federation Enabling Bill. He remained in the Parliament to become a Cabinet Minister in the Government of T. J. Ryan, and on his death in 1916 there was universal1 lament that, after a long period of doubtful health, his passing had left a blank in the first strong Labor Government which Queensland had produced. 
It is also significant that I mention that this year we celebrate the bi-centenary of the 1770 visit of Captain James Cook who explored and charted our east coast. A few moments ago I referred to my electorate encompassing the islands of Moreton Bay. The largest, both on a geographical and a population basis, is North Stradbroke Island. The history books record that on 17th May 1770 the 'Endeavour' was 5 miles out to sea from the point of land which Cook named Point Lookout. It is recorded that he climbed to the masthead where he could make out the sweep of the land which seemed to form a wide open bay. He believed Point Lookout to be on the mainland. It was his first land sighting after leaving Point Danger. Today Point Lookout is perhaps one of the less known resorts, but surely the equal in many ways of the better known island tourist resorts off the Queensland coast. 
My electorate of Bowman is inseparably linked with the history of our nation. Significant again is the fact that a large part of the electorate takes in the area originally known as the Moreton Bay Settlement. Cleveland, a beautiful town in a semi-residential rural setting on the shores of the Bay and the recognised capital of the Redlands area, at one time strongly rivalled Brisbane as the choice for the colony's port. But Cleveland, despite its many advantages for development both as a port and as a city, was fated not to be the chief town. Perhaps the decision may have been somewhat influenced by the misfortune of Governor Gipps who in 1842 is reported to have fallen in the mud at low tide as he disembarked at Cleveland to carry out an inspection prior to a decision being made on the siting of the port. 
May 1 suggest in passing that in this historic year the Federal Government should take the lead in financially sponsoring the more detailed historic recording of life and events in the days of the early suburban development of our cities and towns. The major events of history are certainly recorded, but at this local level very little is recorded. Much can never be done in this regard. That which can, should be carried out while those who have played a part in that history are still living. But so much for history. Almost three-quarters of a century has passed since the debate, to which I have referred, on the adoption of the Constitution and the resulting federation of the 6 independent colonies. More than a century and a half has passed since the early settlement of Queensland, and we have now reached the third century since the discovery and possession of our east coast took place. In this place, while it may be interesting to hear of and reflect on the past, save from ensuring that it is recorded in the annals of our development we can do nothing to alter its facts and accomplishments. Our role is for the present and for the future. 
Today in accepting that role I ask honourable members to reflect for a few moments on the years since David Bowman, his colleagues in the Queensland Parliament and their counterparts in the parliaments of the other colonies debated the proposed federation. I ask honourable members to reflect and consider whether that transformation of the colonies, that marriage of the States, has been the complete success for which our founding fathers hoped. It is undeniable that we have seen developed a young, virile and wealthy nation, but have we really developed a national spirit, a national outlook and a national pride? Too often people regard themselves as Victorians or Queenslanders. Often their interests and utterances and those of their State governments clearly indicate that federation is still a partially unacceptable concept. Surely it is high time that the marriage was consummated. 
This tired, complacent coalition which cannot handle the current national problems except by attempting to adapt Labor policy to its own systems will certainly not face the problems of the future. Under this 
Government centralism has become a fearful word. The Labor Party - united, alert, vigorous and active, poised to become the next Government of our nation under the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam)  as our next Prime Minister - will show how efficiently and effectively that central government can work with, work for and work through out State governments. Labour will give the sincere, dedicated, enlightened leadership so urgently needed to face and solve our current and future national problems. One of the most important problems of the future is in regard to the Constitution under which we live. This Constitution which suited the federation of 6 independent colonies 70 years ago, which suited the growth and development of those colonies into States of the Commonwealth, no longer adequately suits the new visions and new concepts which we must adopt to permit our nation to face the next century, to provide for our future generations and for the role we must fill in this south east Asian section of our globe. 
With due respect to you personally,  Mr Speaker,  may 1 make brief reference to something which perhaps typifies the lack of initiative on the part of our present decaying Government. To some degree before coming to this House, and to a much greater degree since coming here, two matters have amazed me. Firstly, the procedures of the House do not operate under standing orders which in my opinion are anywhere near suitable for the conducting of the business of government in our nation as we enter the third quarter of the 20th century. Secondly, in this so-called enlightened age you,  Mr Speaker,  and the Clerks at the table are bewigged. Surely this is an antiquated tradition of bygone years. As officers of the Parliament performing a particular function the Clerks may be excused for wearing gowns, which are in fact a type of uniform, but I cannot accept that wigs are necessary. Surely it cannot be argued that a wig on one's head adds anything to the dignity or decorum of this House. 
I wish now to mention several matters which I believe are of major concern to the people of my electorate and upon which I am sure they would like me to comment on this occasion. Time will not permit more than a passing reference to these matters today - a brief outline of them. However, they are problems of real concern and I serve notice that I will speak again in more detail of them and work untiringly to achieve their solution. Many thousands of my constituents who live on the bayside area stretching from the Brisbane River south to the Logan River live outside the area conveniently serviced by Brisbane public hospitals. In time of family crisis, faced with the worry of sudden illness or injury, they face the added burden of knowing that they must encounter a long trip to a city hospital. For some years as each State election came along the Queensland Government - a government of the same political persuasion as this Government - has blatantly resurrected the possibility of a hospital construction programme in the Wynnum area. At the last election in 1969. knowing that the Wynnum State electorate was continuing to vote solidly Labor, Mount Gravattt suddenly became the suggested site for a hospital. The election successfully over, the Mount Gravatt hospital faded to a feasibility study. I say here and and now that the Queensland Government does not intend and probably cannot finance in the near future the building of any periphery hospital in the Brisbane metropolitan area. 
Let me remind honourable members opposite of the cruel, contemptible propaganda which this Government waged during the last election campaign against Labor's free health scheme. The false assertion that Labor would destroy Queensland's free hospital system was cruel and contemptible because it drove fear into the minds of many aged and infirm electors in Queensland. The Queensland free hospital system, proudly introduced by Labor, has been slowly strangled by the present State Government and is under threat of complete destruction by this Commonwealth Government. Even as late as the recent statement to the House by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  there was no mention of the Government's intention to comply with the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee was denying Queensland hospitals many and Medical Costs, which had drawn attention to the fact that the Commonwealth millions of dollars. In Queensland a large or the Senate Select Committee on Health percentage of people choose not to pay into a hospital benefit insurance fund. As a result when they are in hospital the hospital is not eligible for the full Commonwealth benefit of ยง2 a day but instead receives only 80c a day in respect of such patients. This piracy of Queensland's rightful revenue, amounting to more than $14m since 1952, is accepted meekly by the present State Government. Faced with such shoestring Federal aid, Queensland's free hospitals cannot expand and must continue to slip towards complete destruction. 
Labor's plan to provide a scheme whereby medical and hospital services would be financed by a levy of H% on taxable incomes would protect Queensland's free hospitals. It would permit them to develop their present inadequate service and equipment. Finally it would provide the finance so vitally necessary for the construction of periphery hospitals on the outskirts of Brisbane at such places as Wynnum and Mount Gravatt. I challenge the Prime Minister, if he has one atom of sincerity or one degree of concern for the problems 1 have dealt with, to incorporate in the legislation soon to come before this House provision for the full Commonwealth subsidy of $2 per head to be paid to all Queensland public hospitals irrespective of whether the patient is insured. 
Honourable members will recall that 1966 was an election year. In Queensland both State and Federal elections were held that year. It is perhaps coincidental that in 1 965 the establishment of a second Brisbane university at Mount Gravatt was mooted. It was to be known as the Griffith University. One might expect that such an essential project would at least be at the bricks and mortar stage after 4 years, but no. After some road and fence building activity before the 1966 elections, when a large sign was erected announcing that the great project was in progress, work has ceased, the sign has become weather beaten and the roadworks have deteriorated through lack of maintenance. Last year this Government announced that the minimal amount of $250,000 had been allocated to the Griffith University during the next 2 years. This sum is earmarked for development work, so no building work is yet envisaged. Such treatment is not good enough when the original intention was that students would be enrolled from this year. 
In his 1969 Budget speech the State Treasurer announced: 'Queensland might have difficulty meeting tertiary education needs in the 1970-72 triennium'. This disclosure, followed closely by the announcement that the Federal Government had money available for Griffith University but was not prepared to use it because the State Government could not match it on a $1 for $1 basis, highlights this Government's disinterest and neglect of the problems associated with Queensland's development. It now appears that at least 6 years must pass before Griffith University can commence to relieve the already strained facilities at St Lucia. In the meantime high school enrolments in the areas from which Griffith would draw the bulk of its students already exceed 50% of the Brisbane total. When areas such as the Gold Coast are added it is obvious that the university must be commenced now, if for no other reason than the inconvenience and financial burden to families and students facing long hours of travel to study at St Lucia. Students and staff members must support this demand that the Government review the programme of the Universities Commission on which the decision to go slow on the Griffith project is based. The present student to staff ratio at St Lucia is the worst in Australia, yet the former Acting Vice-Chancellor, Professor Teakle, stated in his 1969 report that the ratio would rise during this triennium. While there is no open admission that a quota system exists it is generally accepted that certain faculties have unofficially adopted a selective admission policy. Over the next few years a severe quota system will develop and unless the Griffith building programme is put into operation immediately many young Queenslanders who matriculate will be denied the benefits of a university education. In his report Professor Teakle said that the university must stimulate community awareness of the need for further university expansion. He said also: 
Although smaller sites than St Lucia cope with enrolments of 10,000 to 20,000 students, it is short sighted to ignore the imminent justification for a second university in Brisbane or the fact that serious overcrowding at St Lucia will occur unless Mount Gravatt is operating before 1973. The dilemma is that until the campus approaches saturation, the same amount of money will be more productively spent at 'St Lucia where basic services are already available than at Mount Gravatt. In the initial years the returns on investment at Mount Gravatt in terms of student capacity will be low; but it is imperative that a start be made at least in the 1973-75 triennium on a building programme, the recruitment of staff and the provision of library services. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the present university situation in Brisbane demands an immediate special nonmatching grant from this Government to enable the Griffith building programme to commence without delay. 
Another area of education which continues to receive the blind eye treatment from this Government is the State primary system. I do admit that limited assistance has been granted by the Government to the private primary system and the secondary systems in Queensland. We in the Labor Party must, however, continue to stress that much of the aid given has been mishandled because it has neglected to apply the fundamental principle of first determining the needs of the whole of our education system and applying (he finance in a strict order of priorities on a wellknown overall plan of requirements. The State primary system in Queensland has been totally neglected by this Government. 1 mention briefly 2 particular areas of need in State primary schools - libraries and science centres. These are now an essential part of the primary school, but generally Queensland schools have either non-existent or ill-equipped facilities. Surely if the need of these 2 vitally essential subjects required Federal financial assistance for their provision in our secondary schools, the complete Pack of satisfactory facilities in our primary schools should demand immediate Federal assistance for their addition to or inclusion in our schools. 
In the limited time at my disposal in this debate I have not been able to cover some of the more complex problems of the Bowman electorate, such as the changes taking place on the islands and in the Redlands where the farmer is losing, and in some cases has already lost, his battle for economic survival; the need of more finance for local authorities to cope with supplying the services and facilities needed as the suburban areas expand; the problem facing areas where the likelihood of the establishment of the proposed international jet terminal will affect peoples livelihoods; the outstanding advantages of Wellington Point for the future establishment of a deep water port for southern Queensland; the struggle of the Moreton Bay fishermen to earn a living while handicapped by the lack of government interest in the problems of financing their businesses or providing adequate mooring facilities; and the ruination of the near river bayside beaches by pollution and mud from years of government carelessness. These are all matters which are nevertheless important but must await another occasion. 
As time is running out on me today, may I remind the Government that time is also running out on it. While not completely victorious at the last election, we of Labor have shown the electors that we alone of the recognised political parties in Australia have the credibility and capacity to govern alone. A Labor government has been temporarily denied them, but we have firmly set our feet on the pathway to government and, as a united Party enjoying the majority support of Australian electors, nothing can possibly halt the realisation of the new visions and new ideals they share with Labor when next they, the electors, have their day of decision. 
asked the Minister for Ex ternal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government watching closely the investigations being conducted by the American authorities into the allegations of a massacre by certain American officers of some hundred of Vietnamese civilians in the village of Song My. 
Has the Government yet considered any likely action if the allegations are proved correct. 
Will such an incident influence the Government's attitude to the Viet-Nam war. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping  and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent Australian Broadcasting Commission television current affairs programme 'Four Corners' which revealed the grave safety risk of some types of baby car seats of Australian manufacture. 
If so, can he say whether certain widely used car scats not only do not provide any measure of safety but, in fact, add considerably to the risks of injury to their users. 
Will he give urgent consideration to ensuring that all baby car seats available to the public are specifically designed to protect and safeguard their users and that all seats currently on sale, which do not provide anchorage to the car structure, are immediately withdrawn from sale pending their redesign. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor announce in August last year that Australian infantrymen who had served in overseas wars were to get a medal or a badge in recognition of their service. 
If so, when will this award be available for issue. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Is he aware that his Department recently issued a backgrounder research paper on Laos in which was included amongst a list of reference books, one entitled 'Mekong Upstream' by W. G. Burchett? Did the Department act with his approval? Is the author of 'Mekong Upstream' the same W. G. Burchett who was recently permitted to enter Australia by his Government? If so, did the Minister or his Department have any discussions with  Mr Burchett  when he was here on the situation in Laos? Did  Mr Burchett  give the Government permission for his book to be used as a reference in policy pronouncements such as this research paper? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that, whenever pressures might allegedly exist in the housing industry, they appear more prevalent in some States and an increase in the interest rates will affect all States in the same harsh manner? Why was the policy instrument of interest rate adjustment used when the situation clearly calls for a more flexible approach? Does this not verify the allegation that the Government is using the housing industry to control inflationary tendencies elsewhere in the economy in complete defiance of the views expressed by the Treasurer when he was Minister for Housing? Has the Government considered making special arrangements for those States in which the housing industry is not contributing to the inflationary tendency? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the United Kingdom House of Commons and the New Zealand House of Representatives each appointed a committee ia recent years to investigate the electoral laws of their respective Parliaments. 
Did each committee report that its particular Parliament should maintain the first-pa*t the-post system, compulsory enrolment and voluntary voting. 
Will he take steps to have the Commonwealth Electoral Act amended to bring it into Une with United Kingdom and New Zealand legislation. 
Can the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs assure this House that there was complete agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government in the decision to approve the purchase by OPAL -that is, the One People for Australia League - of the Brisbane Motel at Eight Mile Plains, in the Bowman electorate for use as a hostel for Aboriginal mothers and children? As Commonwealth money was involved, will he ensure that, in the future, such decisions are the subject of a comprehensive Government statement covering al! aspects of the intended use of the building and assurances of adequate Government guidance and supervision of the managing organisation - in this instance, OPAL - before biased - and incomplete half truths and rumours have the opportunity to create ill founded but legitimate fears among the residents of the area in regard to their future living conditions and property values? Furthermore, if at the . moment in matters affecting Aboriginals harmony reigns supreme between the 2 governments, will he taken advantage- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many loan applications were received by the War Service Homes Division in Queensland for the purchase of new homes during (a) the financial year 1968-69, (b) the period 1st July to 31st December 1969 and (c) the period 1st January to 3 1st March 1970. 
In each of these periods, how many of the applications reached settlement in under 4 weeks. 
How many applications took (a) 4, (b) 5, (c) 6, (d) 7, (e) 8,  (0  9, (g) 10, (h) 11, (i) 12, and (j) over 12 weeks to settle. 
This evening I desire to refer to a matter with which I have been concerned for a great deal of time and to which I now find coming to support me concern from the ranks of Government members. I did not intend to deal with this matter, but I believe that the time is opportune for it to be raised on the occasion of the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, f believe that the sudden interest of Queensland Liberal members in the grave problem to which 1 wish to refer was singularly significant, and sufficiently so, to warrant a short submission from this side of the House. The time at my disposal tonight will allow brief reference only to the scandalous neglect by this Government which, I believe, is the main reason for the development of the crisis in university facilities in Queensland. 
The failure of this Government to appreciate the need for urgent attention to the finalisation of St Lucia University's development and the actual commencement of a second Brisbane university at Mount Gravatt is highlighted by the unjust allocations to university education in Queensland in the 1970-1972 triennium. During this current triennium a miserable sum of S250.000 has been recommended by the Australian Universities Commission and approved by this Government for the Griffith University, which is to be the name of the proposed university at Mount Gravatt. A small unobtrusive reference dismissed in 4 lines at page of ot the Fourth Report of the Australian Universities Commission typifies the Government's attitude to the needs of young Queensland school leavers who will be seeking a university education in the next few years. Many will be denied this opportunity. It is somewhat refreshing to see that at least one voice has been raised among the ranks of Government, backbench members on the problem. Therefore I wish to take this opportunity to support the honourable member who said that it would cause a grave injustice to St Lucia University if the financing of Griffith University during the 1973-75 triennium caused any cut back to the requirements of St Lucia. I support his call for special Government assistance for St Lucia. In turn I seek his support for my submission, which I believe may offer an immediate solution to the present neglect, of the Griffith University building programme. 
However at present there is little reason for his concern that Griffith development will handicap any plans for St Lucia, for one reason as 1 intend to show. The reverse is rather the fact because at the moment Griffith University lacks a voice which would be effective in submissions to the Australian Universities Commission. To date Griffith is dependent on the hopelessly over-committed advocacy of the St Lucia vice-chancellor and his staff. Let me state quite definitely that the vice-chancellor has more than he can humanly be expected to cope with in the administration of and planning for the completion of his own university without paying more than scant attention to the problems concerning the development of the Griffith University. 
This Government and its fellow LiberalCountry Party administration in Queensland have allowed the Griffith University to become the unwanted child of tertiary, education in Queensland. Griffith University was planned originally to enrol students in 1969, but unless a new approach is taken to its development it will not be able to take students until at least 1978, almost 10 years later. Even if students were to have been enrolled this  year ii would have been almost too  late  for the current needs of Queensland. The disgusting revelation last year that Griffith University development was to be retarded because the Queensland Government was unable to provide matching finance for any Commonwealth grant, which we were told was then available, was a shocking illustration of Government disinterest in the problem at that time. 
Equally urgent to the need of a special grant for St Lucia, which, with its particular problems places it in a very unfavourable light in comparison with other Australian universities, as have been illustrated on more than one occasion, is the urgency for a non-matching Federal Government grant to enable the Griffith University building programme to be undertaken without delay. In order to establish a genuine and realistic figure 1 urge the Commonwealth Government to call on the Queensland Government to establish an interim council, to appoint a vice-chancellor to head that council, and to charge that council with submitting, before the end of this year, a project development plan together with a fully documented and costed estimate of the finance needed to proceed with Griffith University completely independently of the requirements of St Lucia. 
This documentation should be immediately considered by the Australian Universities Commission and the vitally necessary Federal Government grant should then be approved and paid to allow the development of this university to proceed. 
This evening I have listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and I find that in two particular instances he has expressed opinions which would conform to the views of all members on this side of the House. He is dissatisfied with the shocking deal that local government is getting from the Commonwealth Government, the Government that he has the unhappy task of trying to defend because it has ignored local authorities. I noted also that he expressed his concern with the meagre pittance of an increase handed out to pensioners by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  He knows, and I know full well, that the only way the pensioners of Australia will get a just deal will be if the majority of the members of this House support the amendment to the Budget moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and in carrying that amendment defeat the Government. On behalf of the people of Bowman I support that amendment which was moved last Tuesday evening by the Leader of the Opposition and, in his words, condemn this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people. One by one speakers from this side of the House have capably and effectively outlined the wide variety of reasons why we oppose, deplore and totally reject this obnoxious and ill conceived Budget. 
This Budget continues in the pattern of the now tragically long list of Liberal budgets to rape and plunder the broad cross section of average Australians. Once again the dead hand of Liberalism has fallen heavily on the nation. We sincerely believe that the injustice and inequalities of this Budget are such that for the sake of our nation we must take this almost unprecedented step announced by our Leader of opposing it both here and in the Senate. Make no mistake; we intend to seek to destroy this Budget. We seek to destroy this Government and to save this nation. While a succession of speakers on this side of the House have risen to support the amendment and have capably and effectively destroyed any vestige of sincerity and honesty that the Budget may have falsely projected, many speakers in the ranks of Government supporters, and in fact even in the ranks of the Ministry, have chosen to ignore it completely. They devoted their remarks to subjects which have not even been remotely connected with the contents of the speech made by the Treasurer or the attached statements. But while criticism from coalition supporters in this House has been, as usual, veiled in hypocrisy the same cannot be said for criticism elsewhere. Only last Thursday a prominent Country Party member,  Mr Cory,  the member for Warwick in the 
Queensland Parliament, said in no uncertain terms what he thought of the Budget. A report of his remarks reads: 
The Federal Budget was one of the most unsympathetic documents and completely without feeling for human beings, I believe it was a mathematical calculation come hell or high water.' He said that he could see why some actions were taken in the Budget, but he could not regard them as justified. Furthermore he added- The Budget was supposed to curb inflation but in fact it aided inflation. It placed a greater burden on people not causing the inflation - the primary producers, the store keepers, the professional men in rural communities, and anybody depending on them. It also placed a greater burden on the manufacturing industry supplying primary industry and on pensioners. These were the sections not benefiting in any way by inflation. Their burdens had been increased by higher petrol prices- which meant increased freights - increased telephone charges, postal charges and sales tax.' 
It is indeed refreshing to see such an honest appraisal of this deceptive, despicable Budget from the ranks of the Country Party. Those words 1 have quoted were uttered only last week in the Queensland Parliament by a Country Party member of that Liberal-Country Party coalition. Perhaps there is still time for someone honest enough to give an honest Liberal assessment of the Budget - that is, of course, if there still remains anyone honest in the Liberal Party. Some months ago the Treasurer made a surprising announcement. It was surprising to all who realise that nothing done by this Liberal Government has ever had much basic planning. We were told that in a major departure from usual practice this Budget would see the introduction of programmed budgeting. This would involve forward estimates by the Treasurer of budgetary items for several years ahead. It would give the nation an honest forecast of future estimated receipts and expenditure. In fact, no such estimates were published. 
The Treasurer has made no reference in the Budget to his failure to carry out this plan. Perhaps he decided it would be bad enough for the people to realise how the Government intends to rob them this financial year without being factually aware how that robbing will multiply in the next few years. Perhaps the Treasurer decided not to be honest after all. No doubt he remembered, as I am sure all honourable members will remember, how he was thrown out of Cabinet a few years ago for being honest. 
In the 25 years since World War II we have seen our population increase from approximately 7 million to almost 124 million. This growth has been in the main accelerated by the establishment of the immigration policy by the then Labor Government and its continuation over the years by a succession of coalition governments. 1 have the honour to sit in this House next to a truly great Australian, my colleague the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell). His  place in our history is assured as our first Minister for Immigration. The policy to bring European migrants, initially in the unfortunate category of displaced persons, to Australia was developed by the right honourable member for Melbourne and has basically remained unchanged through the years. 
The immigration policy critical to the prosperity, development and security of Australia in the 50's was equally admirably suited to our requirements in the 60's. Today that policy is in need of a genuine re-appraisal and review for adaption to suit our requirements in the 70's. 1 consider that it is in the national interest to continue a programme of migration for an indefinite time into the future. 1 consider the problems that have been revealed in recent years in relation to migration have developed, not simply as some suggest, because of the continuation of the policy, but rather because of the inability of recent Ministers for Immigration to adapt the policy to what may be most readily, although perhaps not most suitably, described as the principles of supply and demand. The announcement by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  that a review of immigration policy is to be undertaken is most timely but 1 suspect it was not very well considered before being determined. In a manner of complete ineptitude, typical of the actions we have come to see as the general pattern of this present Government's operation, the appointed committee of inquiry, consisting no doubt of people whose experience and integrity I would not question, is to be on a departmental level. This is a regrettable decision, a.s 1 believe there will be a strong possibility of justice not appearing to be done in the considerations and conclusions ultimately disclosed. The forthcoming inquiry should be aimed at investigating and understanding the costs and benefits, both social and economic, of migration. It should enable Australia to pursue the highest possible intake geared to our economic capacity for migrant absorption. The review should lead to determining the benefits in terms of matching our needs in skills and experience within the highest desirable intake. The whole important question of future migration policy for this nation should I believe be placed in the hands of a joint party committee of this House. This committee unfettered by departmental restrictions could ensure that future migration policy in this country would remain basically acceptable to all political parties and continue its important contribution to the future development and prosperity of our nation. 
However, migration is not a subject on which I wish to expand any further during this particular debate - important though it is. I have merely mentioned it for  2  reasons: firstly to bring to the attention of honourable members one item in the Budget which, over the years, has continued to receive in my opinion adequate attention in the overall context of finance allocation; secondly, to bring to the attention of honourable members that while this important means of population growth has never lagged in the attention of successive governments, another perhaps even more important means has been shamefully neglected, and at times completely disregarded. Of course I refer to the population of this nation by the propagation of our own Australian family growth. In this Budget the Government, has once again ignored the vitally important consideration of assisting young marrieds to have or rear children. The Treasurer has not provided one single measure aimed at encouraging families living in this country to bear the unjust taxation burden that grows progressively as the family increases in size. This Budget clearly serves notice that this heartless Government is anti-family. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  while perhaps not an official spokesman for the Government, has surely and clearly profounded their philosophy when he said in his remarks on the Budget: 
The Australian Labor Party's opposition to taxation in almost any form except way up the scales is often based in terms of the specific example, on the low wage large family complex. as it were. Most people assume that the ability to have children is a Cod-given right. I would equally assume that the intelligence of homo sapiens is a Cod-given right and I would further assume that there is no compulsion on somebody on $3000, $2000, $1000 or any number of thousands of dollars a year to have 10 children if he cannot afford them, and facilities are available these days to eliminate any necessity to have them. 
I hope that not only all the young families in the electorate of Denison but the many thousands of young families throughout the length and breadth of Australia who happened to have missed those stark words when spoken by the honourable member for Denison may at least have had the opportunity to hear them repeated this evening. The attitude they reveal is positive proof that the family man, the wage earner, just does not rate in this Government's estimation. This Government is an anti-family bunch of bunglers masquerading as a democratic government. 
By way of illustration I take the case of a man on an average weekly wage in  1961  and compare his position then with his position in this year, taking into consideration the  10  per cent taxation reduction. It is clearly obvious from the figures I will quote that his tax burden increases with the more dependants he has. I have based the calculations on average weekly wage rates - that is, wage rates prescribed by various Commonwealth and State awards, excluding overtime, etc. In  1961  the average weekly wage rate was  $35.80.  In  1969 -  the last year for which figures were available - it was  $49.60.  So while the wage has increased by  39  per cent over that period the tax burden has increased as follows: For a single man by  79  per cent; for a married man by  94  per cent; for a married man with  1  child by  105  per cent; for a married man with  2  children  114  per cent. 
Where in this Budget can it be claimed that the Government has shown even a hint of concern for the family man. Once again there has been no decision to increase the maximum deductions allowable for the taxpayers dependants. These remain at  $312  for his spouse, parent,  parent-in-law,  or daughter-housekeeper;  $208  for his first child, invalid relative or student child; and  $1.56  for each other child. The last increase in these rates was in the 1967-68 Budget. We should consider how costs of the family man have increased since then. Similarly the heartless attitude continues. Maternity allowance, long overdue for review, have once again been ignored. Child endowment payments have also been shamefully neglected in this anti-family Budget. The present taxation law acts to the detriment of those who most need help. 
In his policy speech for the 1969 Federal election the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said: 
With rapidly rising incomes the existing taxation structure needs to be reformed. 
What hypocrisy that statement reveals! The promised reform that resulted in the illogical general 10 per cent tax cut on incomes under $10,000 is patchwork confusion tragically directed against the family man. More tragically, the lower down the tax scale a man is, the less than new tax rates will help him in actual moneyinthepocket terms. 
During the remarks that I made last evening before the adjournment of the House I referred to an immigration inquiry as being a departmental inquiry. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  has advised me that that statement was incorrect. I now realise, after speaking to him, that the persons to be appointed for the purpose of this inquiry are to come from outside his Department. I thank him for correcting my statement with that advice, but I reiterate that I have not changed my thoughts on the misgivings which I suggested in my remarks I had about that inquiry. 
In dealing with the matter to which I was referring last evening, the neglect in the Budget of families, it is fitting to mention the widower and the grave plight that he faces in his endeavour to educate and care for his family without the help of his marriage partner. He has been singled out for special neglect by this Government for a number of years. The Budget White Paper in 1968-69 stated: 
The Government is aware of the difficulties that can be faced by widowers of relatively small means who are left to care for a family of young children. It is hoped that measures of relief for these widowers will be formulated and announced soon. 
No mention of the measures of relief has been made in either the 1969-70 White Paper or the one accompanying the current Budget. The questions that I have heard put by honourable members during this Parliament with a view to seeking the latest developments of the review have been fobbed off in a rather uncaring attitude. I hope that my mention of the particular difficulties faced by widowers will assure them that the next Labor government will treat them with more compassion than this ailing, failing coalition. 
During the course of this debate many honourable members have referred to the miserable pittance of50c with which the Government has seen fit to insult those unfortunate citizens who are in receipt of social service pensions. None of the weak attempts by a succession of honourable members on the other side of the House has lessened the natural antagonism of all fair-minded Australians to this gross miscarriage of justice. Likewise, none of the valiant efforts by my colleagues on this side of the House has touched the cold conscience of the Government or is likely to stir the arrogant complacency of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  who made this disgraceful pronouncement. Let me further remind all honourable members opposite that, despite their efforts to believe otherwise, the social conscience of the community generally has been aroused by this50c slap in the face that the pensioners have received. I remind the House that the Government has surely breached Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights. As a signatory nation we should be bound to guarantee for our people a living standard that is better than the standard recognised as a poverty level. However, all sections of the Australian community that have any association with pensioner organisations agree that poverty exists in this country. To what extent it exists is often the subject of debate, but only the ill informed or the foolhardy deny its existence. Reliable reports disclose that at least 1 million Australians are victims of poverty or at least marginal poverty. During a debate in this House on a matter of public importance moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  last year the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said: 
The Government's policies are having a real impact on poverty. 
I must agree with the Minister. They certainly were having  an  impact and they continue to have a progressively greater impact. Tragically, that impact does nothing more than accelerate the spread of poverty and ensure its continued existence. 
Another important area of need which continues to bc ignored by the Government is the need for a new deal in financial assistance to the pre-school and primary school levels of our education systems. The Government shrugs off its responsibility at these levels and blissfully acclaims: 'Education is a State responsibility'. It sanctimoniously reiterates: 'A Federal Government cannot interfere with State rights'. The stark truth is that while this Government continues to hold a tight control on the finances available to the States, no State government can afford to expand its education budget to the extent necessary to provide a more efficient primary school system or develop a complete system of pre-school education. The Acting Principal of the Queensland Kindergarten Teachers College, Miss Banff, is reported to have said when speaking at the Ryan Liberal Party executive education seminar last weekend: 
The Commonwealth is not recognising the value of pre-school education. 
She said that there was general agreement that the formative years were the spanning period when rapid physical growth and personal development enabled kindergarten teachers to foresee the type of adult that the child would become. 
At the primary level of education the greatest current problem in Queensland is the lack of school library facilities. In past years the Government, blinded by the desire to seek popular electoral support, poured finance into the provision of libraries at secondary level without a thought for the obvious situation that consequently has developed in primary schools. The school library is an instrument of education whose effectiveness is based on the success of its functioning as part of the total school programme, lt follows from this principle that the school library is an indispensable part of the whole continuing process of education, playing its due role in sub-primary, primary and secondary schooling. It is as necessary a part of the educational process as is primary education. In Queensland there is a critical condition in this regard. 
The small remaining vestige of credibility that this Government had surely has been destroyed by the introduction of the present Budget. Today honourable members who occupy the Government benches are sadly disillusioned in their leadership and scared out of their wits at the certain results if the amendment moved bv the Leader of the Opposition is carried. Wc on this side of the House face the challenge of an election with great confidence. We know that honourable members opposite live in fear of an early election. They will avoid one at all costs, while they desperately try to work out their problems and find an acceptable way to dump the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and replace him from within their own ranks. With every confidence and with eager anticipation of the possible outcome, I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. F urge all honourable members likewise to support the amendment, to sack the Government and to save the nation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his recent advice to me that the question of nursing home fees and appropriate Commonwealth benefits had been examined by the Minister for Health. Did that survey disclose an urgent need for special financial assistance to pensioners in those homes? Docs he consider that the Budget increase of 50c a week in pensions will overcome the grave problem facing pensioners following recent fee increases in Queensland? If not. what action does he propose to take to assist them and when will he announce the Government's proposals? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity. 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children. 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inequalities. 
nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement cone from the national Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A joint Commonwealth State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
The immediate financing of special pro grammes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
The provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What marine facilities are available to officers of his Department in the Moreton Bay area of the Queensland Coast. 
Do these facilities provide adequate protection against the possibility of smuggling drugs or other illegal imports from ships entering the Port of Brisbane or passing close to the unprotected islands adjacent to the shores of the Bay. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his statement last weekend to the New South Wales Liberal Party branch convention on the effects of increased wages on the economy. As the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is shortly to hear the 1970 national wage case, does this regrettable statement indicate that the Government intends to be more blatant in future attempts to influence the Commission? If this is not intended will he assure the House that he will discontinue making such biased and ill-considered statements? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Are the increased telephone installation and rental charges announced in the Budget all the increases in charges that his Department plans to impose on telephone owners and users this financial year. 
Can he give an assurance that there will be no increases, at least until the next Budget, in the "rates presently charged for local or trunks calls. 
-This evening in the consideration of the proposed expenditure for this Department for the current financial year it is important to realise that this particular area of Federal Government responsibility is unique in that, unlike most of the other departments, there is no serious disagreement between the general direction of Government policy and that of the members on this side who represent the Labor Party. This important fact is in no small way a tribute to my colleague, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  who was Australia's first Minister for Immigration. The grand policy design, formulated and introduced by the right honourable member, has stood the test of time. Throughout the years since its commencement our immigration programme has had the support of both sides of this Parliament. I am sure that all honourable members look forward to a continuation of this general agreement in future immigration policies. 
On several occasions during the short time I have been in this Parliament 1 have seen honourable members opposite produce a booklet and refer to texts in it. I have it with me this evening. It is the 'Platform Constitution and Rules of the Australian Labor Party'. On this side of the House we are well awarethatGovernment members regard the possession of the policy booklet as an essential part of their ability to participate in many debates and even though they choose to quote from it only in an endeavour to embarrass my Party and to suggest that some sections of our policy reflect on us in an unfavourable way, we realise that it has, however, become accepted practice over the years for Labor Party policy to be taken and implemented to the Government's advantage. As this is subsequently to the advantage of the Australian people, we are proud that the Government has so often legislated sections of our policy. May I point out that probably the first occasion on which this Government implemented our policy was in the field of immigration? While the Government manages to remain in office it can do no better than continue to base its migration policy on ours. 
Our policy has been quoted this evening during this debate by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  the shadow Minister for Immigration. There is no need for me, in the time available for the completion of this debate this evening, to requote it. Our immigration policy has been administered in the past in a way that has met with the approval of all political parties. We have at all times found that it has suited our needs and worked satisfactorily in the establishment of a balanced society in Australia. However, in recent months several voices have been raised in querying the future needs and directions of migration policy. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  questioned the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on the effectiveness of the present immigration policy. Unfortunately, even though it was very early in the day, during question time, the Prime Minister missed the point of the question and answered that he did not realise that any members of Parliament thought that the immigration policy was bad. It is to the credit of the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  that he has recently ordered a searching inquiry of Australia's future migration needs. But just as the Prime Minister missed the point in answering the question put to him by the honourable member for Robertson, I am afraid that the Minister has missed the point in considering the need and making hisdecisionfortheestablishmentof this committee of inquiry. 
I would like to support the proposition put so capably this evening by the honourable member for Grayndler on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, that the most suitable type of inquiry to investigate the future immigration needs of our nation is, without a doubt, a joint committee of both Houses of this Parliament. I appeal to the Minister this evening to reconsider his announced intention and to seek Government approval for a joint parliamentary committee. He will be assured that such a proposal by the Government will be supported wholeheartedly by the Opposition. 
Earlier this year I had the opportunity to attend the 18th Australian Citizenship Convention. At this Convention I heard a number of very interesting matters associated with immigration discussed. They have been mentioned in more detail this evening by honourable members from this side of the House. The particular problems confronting the newly arrived settlers to this country were the subjects of papers that were presented to the Convention by experts in each particular field. 
The migration problems associated with health, housing, education and cultural and social activities were analysed. Generally speaking. I believe that problems still exist for migrants in the early years in which they are in this country. These were very capably illustrated in the discussions that took place at that Convention. A wonderful job has been done both by old Australians and by the migrants themselves in overcoming so many of these problems. One matter that I think is worthy of mention this evening is that where we seem to have failed most miserably in the integration and assimilation of migrants is in the field of politics. As yet no migrant has been able to receive party endorsement for successful election" to any of our parliaments. The responsibility for this must rest very heavily on the propaganda that is fed to the migrants in their early days in this country when, to my knowledge and that of many honourable members on this side of the House, it is obvious that attempts are made to poison them against Labor's political persuasions. Apparently migrants have not been sponsored by members of the Government Parties for any seats which it has been possible in the past for them to win and so become members of any of our parliaments. 
I believe that a genuine endeavour has been made by my Party in recent years to sponsor political awareness and understanding among migrants. In Queensland we have established within the Labor Party the Migrant Advisory Council. It is a very important and effective section of our Party organisation. I hope it will not be many years before we see the entry of an ex-migrant, a naturalised Australian citizen, taking his place side by side with his fellow Australians in one or our State Parliaments or in our National Parliament. Then I believe we will be able to acclaim justly and proudly the success of our migration programme in total and the success of the assimilation and integration of our post-war migration population. 
1 address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. What is the present position regarding the export of what could be considered to be strategic materials to China - materials which could be used in the interests of the Government of North Vietnam? 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware that the United Nations General Assembly, by a unanimous vote in late 1968, designated 1970 as International Education Year? Will he tell the House what action the Government has taken to support and participate as a result of the United Nations decision and the United Nations Education, Scientific Cultural Organisation's subsequent appeal to member states to prepare programmes for 1 EY? In other words, will he explain clearly in what way 1970 is different - educationally speaking - from 1969 or how 1971 will be different from 1970? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and  underequipped  to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will he state the reasons for the abolition of the Joint Parliamentary Standing Committee on Broadcasting. 
In view of the increasing criticism of many aspects of television and radio broadcasting, will the Government give early consideration to the re-establishment of the committee. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that it is many years since the $48 allowance based on Public Service Regulation 97a and paid to Postmasters in lieu of quarters has been varied. 
If so, will he give early attention to having this and other rates in the Public Service Regulations, which have remained unaltered for a long period, adjusted to the level of current costs of living. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Do statistics reveal that the Australian marine industry is now an important secondary industry providing employment for many persons in both skilled and semi-skilled trades. 
Is he able to say whether week-end boating activities and professional fishing requirements are seriously affected by the lack of Commonwealth finance lo the various Slates to provide marine facilities for boat owners. 
ls he able to say whether the New Zealand Government allows a rebate of 15 cents per gallon on petrol used for any type of marine activity. 
If so. will he give consideration to an alteration of present Government policy so as to make a percentage of the petrol tax available to the Stales for use in the development of suitable marine facilities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was his attention ever drawn to a press report of 14th October 1968 wherein the French Government, in a case where it had no power in law to prevent a share transaction, by an expression of disapproval effectively stopped a plan for the Fiat company of Italy to buy Michelin's controlled shares in Citroen and so preserved the independence of the French firm. 
If so. will the Government act &gt;'n a similar manner with the object of preventing any more takeovers of Australian companies by foreign companies and investors, whether they be British, American, Canadian or Japanese and thereby stop selling a bit of the farm each year to pay the rent', a remark made some years ago by the Deputy Prime Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister no doubt will recall telling the House on 14th October last in reply to a question from me that he had instructed bis Department to review the list of materials approved for export to China. As a result of this review, has any alteration been made to the arrangement which at present allows the export to China of materials capable of being used in the manufacture of armaments and other strategic items which could be used against Australian forces currently engaged in the lndo China war? 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Does the same medical standard apply when determining the fitness of recruits for (a) the Regular Army and (b) national service. 
Does the same medical standard apply when assessing the need to discharge members of the Regular Army and national servicemen. 
If not, why not. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by asking whether he is aware that the Queensland Parliamentary Country Party is endeavouring to have electoral boundaries altered in a most disgusting way and in a way which has been highly criticised? 
This afternoon during question time I took the opportunity to bring to the attention of the House and, in particular, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  the critical situation that has developed in Queensland in recent times with the currently existing threat to democracy in that State. I gave the Prime Minister a chance to support the important principle of democratic government. He chose not to take it and Hansard now records that decision. I think it is fitting this evening that I place on record some facts associated with the Country Party proposals to gerrymander the Queensland electoral boundaries, a gerrymander that will certainly destroy democratic government in Queensland for many years  to  come and will guarantee that the Country Party-Liberal Party coalition will remain in power for many years, lt will also guarantee that the Liberal Party, now the junior party in the coalition, will have no hope of replacing the Country Party as the senior coalition party. All parties agree that a redistribution of electoral boundaries in Queensland must take place. The last redistribution took place in 1958 and since then the State's population has increased from 1,500,000 people to over 1,800,000 people. With the major changes in population distribution that have taken place since then the need for a redistribution is agreed upon by all parties in the Queensland Parliament. 
The 1958 redistribution established three distinct zones which I will mention briefly for the benefit of honourable members. The metropolitan zone - that is, the Brisbane City area - comprised 28 seals and in that zone the average enrolment was to be 11,000 people. The provincial zone included cities such as Ipswich, Toowoomba and Maryborough. It had a total of 12 seats and the quota in that second zone was 12,189. The third zone, the country zone, contains the remaining 38 seats. That makes a total of 78 seats in the Queensland Parliament. The quota for country seats was set at 8,324. Population increases and movements in the past 12 years have produced many imbalanced electorates. The largest metropolitan enrolment is in the Asply electorate which has 22,473 voters. The smallest enrolment is in the inner city electorate of Brisbane which has 8,088 voters. Five metropolitan electorates have enrolments in excess of 20,000, another four have enrolments exceeding 15,000, while three have enrolments below 10,000. 
The position is much more evenly balanced in the provincial city electorates. The difference in enrolments in provincial city electorates is in the vicinity of only 2,000. Cairns has 15,212 electors and Ipswich East has 17,324 electors. Again, in the country electorates the numbers enrolled reflect great discrepancies. Murrumba has an enrolment of 20,660 electors, while in Balonne there are only 6,890 electors - a difference of 14,000. Throughout the State there are 19 electorates which have 16,000 or more voters and 11 which have approximately 8,000 voters. 
This great variation in enrolments proves conclusively that a redistribution must be carried out in Queensland without delay. No electoral system in a country which claims to be democratic can justify making one person's vote only half as valuable as that of another person. 
I will admit that in the past redistributions have been carried out in Queensland by all parties, but the redistribution proposed by the Country Party in Queensland is a gerrymander to end all gerrymanders. In the present Queensland Parliament the Labor Party has 31 seats, although it won 46 per cent of the votes in the 1969 State election. The Country Party gained about 20 per cent of the votes but it has 25 seats in the present Parliament. The Liberal Party was supported by about 25 per cent of the electorate and it managed to hold 20 seats in the present Parliament. There are 2 members of the Queensland Parliament who are not members of any of the major political parties. 
The Prime Minister has now gone on record as saying that he intends to shirk his responsibility - a responsibility, might I remind him, which is seen not only in the eyes of his fellow Australians but also in the eyes of many of our Asiatic neighbours who themselves are striving towards democratic forms of government and in the eyes of the whole world. Those power crazy Queensland politicians - the Premier and the Leader of the Liberal Party - with their ruthless, Fascist style redistribution plan have gone to such lengths that the Liberal Party State Executive has demanded the rejection of the redistribution plan. The State Liberal Party  President, Mr Eric  Robinson, has gone on record as saying that the Country Party's proposal, if adopted, will mean that electoral injustice has been achieved at Country Party insistence. The Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament,  Mr Jack  Houston, calls the proposal, as I said earlier, the worst gerrymander the world has ever seen - the gerrymander to end all gerrymanders. 
Influential members of both the Liberal and Labor Parties in the Queensland Parliament confess that they get sick in the stomach when they think of what is being done by this gerrymander in Queensland. 
Despite the unpopularity of his leadership over many different issues in recent months, the Queensland Premier in his well-known arrogant style has carried the gerrymander to the point of no return. The combined efforts of 8 Liberal members -  Mr Chinchen, Mr Porter, Mr Murray, Mr Lickiss, Mr Hughes, Mr Miller, Mr Hewitt  and  Dr Crawford  - and the Labour Party have so far prevented the completion of this ill-conceived electoral gerrymander. It leaves the situation still uncertain. Present indications are that in a desperate effort to forestall the Parliament approving a reasonably fair amendment which was proposed yesterday evening by  Mr Porter,  and which has the support of a majority of members of the Queensland Parliament, the Country Party and the Chalk Liberal axis will endeavour to keep the measure well away from further debate in the Parliament. So the present unjust and imbalanced electorate size will be maintained until after the next State election, which is due in May 1972. In other words, an overdue redistribution will have been pigeonholed to preserve a virtual dictatorship in Queensland. Democracy has suffered a cruel blow in the State of Queensland. 
Thursday, 1 April 1971 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What sum has been made available to the Queensland Government under the Slates Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969. 
How many building schemes have been approved. 
Where are the units to be constructed. 
How many units are included in the approvals. 
What is the proposed rental that pensioners will be required to pay. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice. 
What are the names of the persons who have spoken over the national radio network since 1st January 1970 as commentators on any one or more of its programmes, and what were their qualifications in each case. 
What fee was paid to each person and how many times did each person broadcast. 
What steps were taken to ensure that conflicting views on any subject were adequately and properly presented. 
Was the Australian Broadcasting Commission subjected to pressure from any quarter to persuade it to emphasise any particular view on an international or national question. 
ls the Commission satisfied wilh the impartiality of those who arranged the talks. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Federal Government of the United States of America has set 1973 as the date for compulsory fitting of air bags on new cars. 
Can he also say whether these air-bags, which are built into the car under the dashboard, are regarded as a great advantage in protecting front seat occupants of cars from injury in cases of accident. 
Has a date been set for air-bags to be a compulsory fitting in Australian manufactured cars; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In which cities or towns in each State were conscripts required to undergo medical examinations in each year since the introduction of the present National Service ballot system. 
How many men were (a) examined and (b) rejected as medically unfit in each centre in each of those years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include ail the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been directed to the recent statement of the Vice-President of South Vietnam, Vice-President Ky, that President Thieu was disloyal and led a corrupt government? Is he aware that VicePresident Ky described the South Vietnam Government, in his published statement, as a rotton boat covered with lousy paint - only needing a gust to sink it'? Will the Minister for Defence assure the House that the Vice-President's statement was in no way related to any discussions that he recently had with the Minister about his own treatment by his one-time deputy, the right honourable gentleman who was described by an ex-Minister for the Navy in the House the other evening as 'he who presently leads the Government', or was he prompted by his description to the VicePresident of the current political situation in Australia under the present Prime Minister? Can the Minister assure honourable members also that, before the House rises for the winter recess, he will give a 
Comprehensive statement covering this visit to South Vietnam and his other recent overseas jaunts? 
asked the Attorney-General,  upon notice: 
Can he say whether the compulsory retiring age for judges in all States, except Victoria, is 70. 
If so, will the Government initiate steps for  a"  referendum to be held to alter the Constitution in order to -require all judges appointed under Federal jurisdiction to retire at the age of 70. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Have extensions to the Parliamentary building estimated to cost $3m been commenced this year? 
What reasons can be advanced for this large expenditure at this time? 
Why did the Government not permit discussion of the Order of the Day relating to the new and permanent Parliament House and the General Business notice relating to the site for the new building, which have been on the Notice paper since 8 April and 3 June 1970, respectively, before it agreed to the extensions to the present building? 
Will he, when items of buisness have been dealt with by the House, order that urgent attention be given to the planning and construction of the new and permanent Parmanent House thus avoiding further wasteful expenditure on the present building? 
asked the Minister  for the 
Army, upon  notice: 
During each of the last 10 financial years (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising for Army recruiting campaign purposes in Australia, (b) how many Army personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries and (d) how many recruits joined the Army. 
Was a recruiting campaign conducted in other countries during the same period. 
If so, (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising, (b) how many Army personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries and (d) how many recruits joined the Armyin respect of each country. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the tack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allow- ' able for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
During each of the last 10 financial years (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising for Navy recruiting campaign purposes in Australia, (b) how many Navy personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries, and (d) how many recruits joined the Navy? 
Was a recruiting campaign conducted in other countries during the same period? 
If so, (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising, (b) how many Navy personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries and (d) how may recruits joined the Navy in respect of each country? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What are the names of the persons, other than employees, who have been interviewed or have taken part in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Current Affairs programmes 'Four Corners' and 'This Day Tonight' since 1st January 1970? 
What were the qualifications of and what fee was paid to each person interviewed? 
In what States was each programme shown? 
During this period was the Commission subjected to pressure from any person or organisation to persuade it to emphasise any particular point of view on the subject matter covered? 
What steps are taken to ensure that conflicting views on any subject are adequately and fairly presented? 
Is the Commission satisfied with the impartiality of those who arrange the programmes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
During each of the last 10 financial years (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising for Air Force recruiting campaign purposes in Australia, (b) how many Air Force personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries and (d) how many recruits joined the Air Force? 
Was a recruiting campaign conducted in other countries during the same period? 
If so, (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising, (b) how many Air Force personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries and (d) how many recruits joined the Air Force in respect of each country? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does a curfew apply to Eagle Farm airport restricting commercial flights from operating between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m.? 
If so, 
on whose authority may the curfew be relaxed? 
on what dates and how many times on each date have commercial flights operated during the curfew period since 1st January 1970? And 
which airline company operated each of these flights? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
At which defence establishments throughout Australia are premises provided for servicemen under the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement? 
How many servicemen are (a) at present accommodated and (b) awaiting allocation of accommodation in these premises? 
At each defence establishment (a) what is the maximum waiting period for this accommodation (b) how many servicemen are accommodated in private premises and (c) what sum was spent in rent subsidies for private premises in 1969-70? 
-I ask the Minister tor Housing whether his attention has been directed to a reported statement on Sunday by the Victorian Housing Minister who said: 
In April the Commonwealth promised to hold discussions with the States before deciding on any future housing policy. The Budget makes a mockery of that promise. They have announced a new policy before they have even spoken to us. 
Bearing in mind the present Prime Minister's promise at the time that he took over that position in March this year that he would be adopting a new approach to CommonwealthState relations, is the Victorian Minister's statement correct? Were the State Housing Ministers consultedin regard to this Budget decision? If the State Ministers were not consulted, why has the Government attempted to force this new deceitful housing arrangement on the States without previous consultation and agreement? 
This evening as 1 speak on behalf of the electors of Bowman on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72, I am confident that I have their overwhelming endorsement in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 24th August. There is no need for me at the outset of my remarks in this Budget debate to deal at any length with the speech made by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  He dealt in typically Country Party style with the problems confronting the wool industry today and has blamed, berated and demoaned everybody excepting those principally responsible for the plight of the industry. Make no mistake about it, the responsible party in this crisis, as in so many crises that have existed in the past during the reign of various Liberal Party-Country Party governments, is very clearly this Government itself. Government supporters wring their hands in pity and concern about the problems associated with Great Britain's entering the European Common Market but for 10 years they took no action, using the powers that they possessed as those responsible or supposedly responsible for this country, to seek markets alternative to those whose loss they are now bemoaning. Similarly they did nothing about the wool industry but blame everybody else for its plight. 
For the short time that is allotted to me I wish to speak about the future that awaits this country under a Labor government. The amendment that was moved by the Leader of the Opposition precisely outlined our objection to this outstandingly negative Budget. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition to the House very competently detailed the absolute failure of this Budget to provide a responsible programme for either Australia's internal or external requirements during the forthcoming financial year. But the Leader of the Opposition did far more than simply expose this Government's complete incompetence and indifference to the current national problems; he outlined plans for the establishment of a new society in which there would be a better quality of life for all Australians under a Labor Government. Quality of life' is a term that I have noticed both the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  refer to frequently. They attempt to suggest that their Government is responsible for a very satisfactory quality of life in this country. Little do they realise that the standard of living enjoyed by Australians today, and the quality of life that they refer to, exist rather in spite of the Government than because of it. 
The quality of life or the standard of living which is the right of every Australian to enjoy is today grossly inadequate, ft will continue to be so while this decaying, crumbling Government continues to falter from one crisis to the next, with each one more calamitous than that which preceded it. I intend to deal very briefly with several of the more important national problems as they affect sectors of the community that I have the honour to represent in this Parliament. They are problems which this Budget has lamentably failed to overcome. I will show honourable members where I believe the Budget has failed to attack these problems and I will show how the Australian people can expect to have them attacked by a Labor government. 
As I have said, in the brief time that is available to me to speak in this Budget debate it is difficult to deal with many problems. Some of my colleagues who preceded me in this debate have very competently and adequately dealt with some of the problems and shortcomings of the Budget; no doubt those who follow me from the ranks of the Opposition will deal with more of them. This Budget must be examined in the light of the grave internal problems which are widespread in the ranks of the coalition. While I certainly do not suggest that I could refer very favourably to previous Liberal-Country Party coalition governments, those earlier Administrations, particularly under Prime Minister Menzies, could at least be said to have offered a certain style of leadership and to have prevailed with a certain solidarity so that the Government did in fact govern the country. But this Budget amply illustrates to the nation that the McMahon Government today has ceased to govern this country effectively. 
This Budget perhaps offers one consolation. It is the first presented by this Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and it will probably be his last; for one must expect that he will continue to be involved with the rest of the Ministry in the ever changing portfolio allocations which can best be described as McMahon's mobile Ministry. The better quality of life that awaits Australians under a Labor government is very close at hand. As this Government plays out the last months of its pitiful existence, mortally wounded by its self-inflicted internal injuries, the nation stagnates. Today there is no leadership visible in the ranks of the Ministry. This Government has ceased to govern. It has abdicated its responsibilities in favour of the. Public Service in many instances and it is now common to hear senior officials within the Public Service refer to the fact that the day by day business of running this country is being increasingly left in their hands. After the Liberal Party allowed and assisted the Press to destroy the last Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  the present Prime Minister endeavoured to suggest that it was his right as the new leader of the coalition to continue in office under the very shaky mandate gained by his predecessor at the 1969 election. However, week by week he has set out to dismantle and destroy every remaining policy on which his predecessor won office. 
One such policy promise was that the Government would accept some responsibility for this crisis in pre-school education. Although it was always difficult to be sure exactly what was meant by the then Prime Minister when he used that term there is no doubt that the reference he made during the Senate election campaign late last year to the establishment of child care cum kindergarten centres did indicate his Government's intention to make some financial grants to this level of the State's education system. Very quickly on assuming office the present Prime Minister made it obvious that he intended to have nothing to do with this policy of his predecessor. Generally I am sure the pattern in pre school education varies little from State to State. However, I intend this evening to confine my remarks to the situation which currently exists in Queensland, particularly in Brisbane and the immediately surrounding area. A recent survey has indicated that no more than 10 per cent of Queensland children are receiving the benefits of kindergarten training. The sad fact is that this 10 per cent represents children from what may be described as middle class homes. Through the ability of their parents to send them to kindergartens and to pay the fees which often amount to $1 a day, these lucky children have an advantage denied to the great majority of youngsters in either the less affluent or newly developing suburbs or towns. 
The establishment of kindergartens in these areas is often prevented by the inability of the community to take the initial step of raising sufficient finance to gain the State Government subsidy for the construction of a building. Today it is estimated that in over 110 suburbs in the Brisbane area there are no kindergartens. Throughout Queensland country areas the situation is far worse. Numerous country towns throughout Queensland with large populations are without any recognised kindergartens. In recent weeks I have received numerous letters from people and organisations within my electorate requesting my support to get the Federal Government to accept some measure of responsibility for the provision of pre-school education for all who wish their children to participate in this essential level of a complete education programme. These letters point out that while the child of the writeris . fortunate enough to receive pre-school education at a kindergarten affiliated, as is the usual practice in Queensland, with the Creche and Kindergarten Association of Queensland the cost of this pre-schooling is becoming a heavy burden for them to bear and is increasing year by year. The letters go on to point out the obvious fact that by the Federal and State governments accepting additional responsibility for preschool education all children will be able to benefit and, furthermore, the current heavy burden on parents will be greatly relieved. 
I do not know how the decision of the Prime Minister not to honour the promise of his predecessor of Federal Government sponsorship of the development of kindergartens could be made by one who currently holds the title of 'Father of the Year1. It amazes me. I am certain that his children will not be denied the benefits of pre-school education and I am equally certain, that by his decision many thousands of Australian children who should in all fairness be entitled to the same opportunity at this level of education will be denied a pre-school education. How can the Prime Minister claim to be proud of the quality of life that exists under his Government, the quality of life that currently is available to all Australians? 
No, I have not. I understand that at this stage the Lodge is not suitable even for the Prime Minister to reside in and many thousands of dollars are currently being spent there to make that dilapidated - it must be dilapidated if it is not fit for the Prime Minister to live in - residence fit for the Prime Minister. I trust it will very soon be thought to be adequate for him to live in with his wife and children. How can the Prime Minister claim to be proud of the quality of life of Australians when his Government denies equality of opportunity for pre-school children and handicaps the parents of many thousands of Australian children who were hopefully awaiting the assistance which was part of the mandate he once claimed to have inherited? 
I now wish to refer to another aspect of the Budget which aims a further disastrous blow at Australian families. I refer to the long neglected adjustment of concessional deductions for taxation purposes. In the period from 1961 to 1970 concessional deductions for a man's spouse, his first child and subsequent children have each been increased by $26. These deductions were last altered in 1967. A good test of the effectiveness of these allowances would be to see how they have affected the average worker, the person earning average wages each year. Presumably, deductions are allowed to the family man to ensure that his tax burden in relation to that of a single man is not too onerous. The deduction should aim to make the tax system somewhat more equitable. The concessional deductions should at least not be used to discourage people from having families, as they appear to do at the present time. If the deductions are adequate then the family man's tax burden over a period of time will not be increasing at a faster rate than the rest of the community's. In fact deductions have not prevented this from occurring. 
Since 1961 the amount of tax paid by the average wage earner, as defined by the Commonwealth Statistician, with no dependents has increased by 99 per cent. Over the same period the tax paid by a married man with no children has increased by 1 1 6 per cent. The average wage earner with a wife and one child now pays 128 per cent more tax and the average wage earner who has a wife and 2 children now pays 137 per cent more tax than he did in 1961. Over the same period, based on the same figures, average wages rose by a mere 39 per cent. 
The 10 per cent rebate in last year's Budget did not correct this injustice. In fact it aggravated the difference in treatment between the single man and the family man. Last year the average wage earner with no dependents would have received about $35 more a year as a result of the increases in that Budget, but when this is compared with the average wage earner with a wife and 2 children it shows, in the comparison of figures that I have taken out, that the additional amount he would have received over the 12 months would have been only $20, which is $15 less than the single man's increase for the 12 months period. This year the 21 per cent increase in personal tax once again adversely burdens the family man. Certainly his actual additional taxation decreases in accordance with the number of his dependents, but this is only a minimal advantage to. him in the total consideration of the tax burden that the Government forces him to continue to bear. 
As a result of this policy, the more dependents a man has the greater his tax burden becomes. The family man continues to be burdened in an unfair manner. I agree that the Budget - rather belatedly and begrudgingly - gives increases in child endowment of 50c a week for each child under 16 after the second child. This has extended some small measure of benefit to families. But only the most distorted analysis of these increases could suggest that they actually benefit the family by providing more than totally inadequate cost of living adjustments in endowment payments. Let me refer to another problem that has not been faced by this Government. I shall deal with it in greater detail during the Estimates debate. I refer to the new agreement that has been forced on the States by the present Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to replace the existing Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
Probably the most important transaction made by any. young couple - certainly it is their most expensive transaction - is the purchase of a home. Yet in a few words this Budget has dismantled any hope that a responsible and visionary approach would have been forthcoming from the Government in the determination of the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
This evening I wish to raise the matter of the proposed Commonwealth-States housing agreement. I understand that the State Housing Ministers will meet the Commonwealth Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in Canberra in the next few days. This meeting will be the third of a recent series of meetings which have been held to discuss the new Commonwealth-State housing agreement- Several conflicting opinions have been publicised in recent weeks as to the advantage of this new agreement. Two States have put forward definite opposition to the proposals which were announced in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The Victorian Minister for Housing,  Mr Meagher,  in a Press report on the 22nd of last month said: 
In April the Commonwealth promised to hold discussions with the States before deciding on any future housing policy. The Budget makes a mockery of that promise. They have announced a new policy before they have even spoken to us. 
On 29th August, in another Press article dealing with the controversy, the Queensland State Housing Minister,  Mr Hodges,  said that the Commonwealth housing scheme would mean fewer Housing Commission homes for Queenslanders. The article stated: 

 Mr Hodges said that if adopted, the new scheme would mean higher Housing Commission rents and house repayments. 
The article continued: 
Last November the Commonwealth promised us there would not be any change in the scheme. They have not consulted with us, yet they called us down and told us to take it or leave it. What was the good of taking us down there if we could do nothing about it? 
I point out to honourable members that  Mr Hodges'  statement was made after the Housing Ministers had met on 27th August. It is not my intention this evening to pass judgment on the agreement currently under consideration but I do wish to say that the very fact that the Commonwealth has not proposed any escalation clauses in the agreement to run from 1971-72 to 1975-76 is a matter of concern as to its merit. This very fact prompted the Queensland Housing Minister who, I might add, represents the same political affiliations as the Minister in this Government, to say: 
There's inflation and costs are rising. Without escalation clauses things might be all right for the first year. But after that the effects would gather pace. Over the 5 year period there would be a serious drop in the buying power. This would mean fewer Housing Commission homes for Queenslanders in future, because fewer houses would be built with the same money. 
Despite the promise in this House on 22nd April this year that the Commonwealth would confer with the States before a new agreement was decided upon, no such conference was held. Instead, what has happened is that despite the pious promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in March of this year that his attitude would be to adopt a new approach to Commonwealth-State relations, the States were never consulted on this matter. They were confronted with a new agreement and dictated to in a take this or take nothing attitude. 
Let me quickly put on record how I am certain of my claim of Commonwealth dictatorship in this vital matter of Commonwealth-State relations. I will show also how the Minister for Housing in recent weeks, both inside this House in reply to my question on 24th August and in his statements outside the House, has blatantly and maliciously misled both the States and members of this Parliament. Earlier this year, due to the inability of the Government to arrange a new Commonwealth-State housing agreement and have it endorsed by the States prior to the end of the last financial year, it was necessary for the Minister to introduce to the Parliament an interim measure to enable the Commonwealth to make advances to the States for housing for a period from July 1971 until such time as a new Commonwealth-State housing agreement could be finalised. At that time, in his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
It will not be possible to negotiate a new Agreement with the States in time for presentation to the Parliament before the end of the present sittings. The States are, however, substantially dependent upon advances from the Commonwealth for maintaining their housing operations.  I expect shortly to be in a position to commence negotiations with the States and to reach agreed conclusions in time for introduction of appropriate legislation early in the Budget sittings. 
Under the scheme which then existed, the Commonwealth advanced money to the States at a concessional rate of interest which was 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. The interim measure was introduced in this chamber on 22nd April last. Two days previously the Minister for Housing replied to a question on notice from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who had asked: 
What has been the (a) date and (b) outcome of discussions between the Minister and the State Ministers concerning the 1971 housing agreement. 
The Minister said in reply: 
I expect to discuss any such future arrangement with the State Housing Ministers at a meeting to be arranged as soon as possible. 
I admit that in reply to my question on 24th August last the Minister for Housing made out that certain negotiations had taken place, implied that the Premiers were acquainted with some of the details of the proposed housing agreement and that the Commonwealth's job had been done because the promised meeting had taken place. I point out that the promised meeting was a meeting between the Ministers for Housing. In his reply to me in this place the Minister said: 
The details of these arrangements were made known to the State Premiers and to the State Treasurers by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference over 2 months ago. 
That does not sound to me as if it was the type of proposed housing agreement conference which the Minister for Housing referred to on both 20th and 22nd April. 
When the House of Representatives adjourned on Friday, 7th May, to my knowledge no such meeting had been held. To the best of my knowledge, and 1 have checked extensively for any ministerial statements or Press reports - these usually are based on Cabinet or ministerial information leaks and therefore are fairly reliable - no such meeting was held during the parliamentary recess. Parliament met again on Tuesday, 17th August. At 8 p.m. that evening the Treasurer presented the Budget and in his speech delivered the death blow to the existing Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Furthermore he destroyed also any possibility of a beneficial and harmonious agreement being established in its place. 
Surely,  Mr Speaker,  it is time the Minister for Housing endeavoured to bring some truthfulness and honesty into his handling of this matter. Either a conference or a meeting was held with the State Housing Ministers before the new agreement was announced or it was not held. The meeting was promised in this House on 20th April. It was referred to by the Minister again on 22nd April. Hansard records those promises. I challenge the Minister now either to state quite definitely when that meeting took place or to apologise to the House for his misleading statements which some people could regard as untruthful. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
During each of the last 10 financial years &lt;a) what was the total amount spent on advertising for Navy recruiting campaign purposes in Australia, (b) how many Navy personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the total cost of the campaign including salaries, and (d) how many recruits joined the Navy? 
Was a recruiting campaign conducted in other countries during the same period? 
If so, (a) what was the total amount spent on advertising, (b) how many Navy personnel were employed on the campaign, (c) what was the ,total cost of the campaign including salaries and &lt;d) how many recruits joined the Navy in respect of each country? 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that it is prompted by the grave concern that I share with all members of the Opposition over the attitude of the  Deputy  Prime Minister who, as recently as yesterday during question time, showed his unwillingness to accept the true reasons for our failures to sell wheat to China. I ask: Following on the Labor Party's successful delegation to China and the Prime Minister's subsequent announcement that he would seek dialogue with Chinese leaders, is he able to tell the House how far that dialogue has advanced and whether he has sought or received an invitation to visit China? In the event of such an invitation, will he assure the House that he would welcome it and speedily arrange such a visit? Alternatively, would he seek Chinese approval for a joint parliamentary delegation to visit China during the next recess in order to prove beyond doubt his Government's genuine desire to establish full diplomatic recognition in the near future? 
This afternoon we have listened to a typical address by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in reply to the motion of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I say 'a typical address' because over the years we have come to expect the old Red bogy tactics to become apparent immediately he gets on his feet to speak. This afternoon was no exception. Unfortunately, at the outset of the remarks of the honourable member for Reid the Minister for Housing heard what he could interpret only as an act of a socialistic government and, obsessed by this thought of socialism, and seeing again the old Red arrows coming down from Asia as they do when we talk about external policies, he became so possessed by this that he was not in a position to pay attention to the rest of the remarks made by the honourable member for Reid. 
The Minister was so far off the beam in his assertion that the Australian Labor 
Party proposed to control all land in the areas that we seek to develop and land in the cities mentioned in the motion this afternoon, that I must take up one of his points. All that the Labor Party seeks to do in the acquisition of large areas of land in the developing areas of the cities and towns is to provide for the needs of people requiring land in competition with the private developers - not sole control of the land availability in these areas at all, but in competition with people currently developing this land. We believe that the responsibility rests with the Federal Government, which alone has the means to make finance available to the States so that the States can acquire this land and, in turn, make it available for people to purchase for home building sites in terms of our suggestion for the setting up of a commission. But so much for the words of the Minister for Housing. 
The continuing interest and concern that the Opposition has shown in the problem of the complete lack of any joint CommonwealthState planning and development commissions that have been proposed are certainly not new. Our decision to sponsor the debate today was to highlight further the complete apathy of the Government to this problem which is nothing short of a national scandal. Even before the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  assumed the leadership of the Labor Party he had commenced to work actively to' highlight the need for Commonwealth responsibility iti all matters associated with land development for residential purposes and its complementary problem of over-development in some of our capital cities. Our spokesman on urban affairs who opened the debate this afternoon, the honourable member for Reid has also taken up this matter on numerous occasions, such as today, and he has vigorously advocated a more realistic acceptance bv the Government of its ultimate responsibility to take the initiative and to seek co-operation and co-ordination in a national scheme for future land development in bur cities and towns. 
Probably, the first indication, of this Government's awareness that land COStS were a severe burden on so many and in so many areas of this nation was given soon . after the present Minister for Housing took over the portfolio. Tn Brisbane, on the occasion of the presentation of a housing grant cheque to mark the 200,000th payment under the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-70, he said that the Federal Department of Housing would make a complete survey of land costs in all capital cities. He went on to explain, however, that this proposed survey would take 2 years to complete. He also said, and this may be taken as an indication of how appallingly out of touch with reality the Government is: 
There is good reason to believe the price of residential land generally has risen substantially in recent years. 
When one considers a statement such as this, one appreciates the significance of the admission of the Prime Minister  (Mr Mc Mahon)  during question time in this House on Thursday 16th September, when he said: 
. this is an occasion when statesmanship is desperately needed in this country. 
When the Prime Minister realises that he is not in a position to provide statesmanship is it any wonder that the Minister for Housing, who occupies, I think, the lowly second last place on the list of Ministers of this Government, is unable to provide any leadership in solving the housing problems of this nation. No doubt the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was correct when he told students at the University of Queensland only last week: 
It is about time Australia had a Liberal Party prepared to take on new policies.  lt is all very well for the Prime Minister and his  deputy  to roam about the country talking in well sounding terms about the quality of life which their Government has developed for Australians. When it comes to any forthright Government action to provide for a genuine future quality of life, sadly they are always found' to be wanting. 
Of course, when the Opposition proposes that federal responsibility should be assumed for matters such as this the Government is ever ready to grasp the old argument and say that while it would be most anxious to take action this is really a State or local government responsibility, and as such must be left alone for fear of an infringement on States' rights. The Government will also quickly claim that there could be constitutional problems in our proposals. I agree that this argument has some merit. I do hot' intend to take time this afternoon to rebut it, but 1 simply say that there is a vast number of issues facing this nation's future prosperity and development that will sooner or later have to be overcome by a Federal Government progressive enough to sponsor a new constitutional convention between the States and the Commonwealth. The present arrangement of government responsibility and authority in land, as in many other matters, may have been ideally suited to the beginning of this century. It is totally unsuited to present day needs. The system of governmental organisation of our States, cities and local authorities, and the repertoire of roles available to the respective political leaders are designed for self maintenance, not change; for stagnation, not innovation. The structures and processes were designed for the attitudes and orientations of the slowly changing world of the 19th century. In today's world they are a blueprint for failure. 
I referred earlier to the announcement by the Minister for Housing of a Government sponsored survey of land costs in all capital cities. In his speech on that occasion he also made the statement that his Department estimated that between 1963 and 1969 the cost of residential land in Australian cities increased at an average of between 8 and 9 per cent a year. The Minister added, however, that the estimate was based on fragmentary data and had to be treated wilh reserve. Well, he was certainly correct in applying that qualification. His figures are far from correct. I have recently examined the report of the Housing Industry Association, prepared by its economic research department. This report was published in August this year and is titled 'A Study of Land Costs in Australia'. I submit that report is a reliable document and tells a totally different story from that told by the Minister. So much for the Minister's suggestion that land prices have increased at an average of between 8 and 9 per cent in recent years. The truth of the matter is that the report disclosed that the increase in land prices in Sydney over the decade from 1960 averaged 15 per cent a year and over the past 2 or 3 years the rises have been in excess of 20 per cent. In Melbourne over the last 10 years the average increase has been between 5 and 6 per cent, and more recently 10 per cent. In Brisbane, by comparison, in the same 10 year period the average increase was 5 per cent but this has recently risen to  12i  per cent a year.  
The report from which I have quoted also discloses that the relative increase has been greatest for low cost blocks in most areas because the cost of services is much the same whether the area is sought after or is of relative unimportance. The cost of services is the same for similar areas of land. The method of financing costs of services to residential land has in recent years undergone a gradual but important change. This has been due in no small regard to the changes that have been forced upon local, authorities by this Government. The Minister for Housing, representing the Government in this debate this afternoon, has sought to be critical of the Brisbane City Council and many other local authorities for passing on costs in the resale of their land to purchasers, but this has been forced upon them by the miserly attitude of this Government in refusing to permit local authorities to raise sufficient finance for the development of land areas. Whereas at one time they were dependent upon the Australian Loan Council for moneys for such undertakings, they have now had that avenue denied them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett) 

Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
This evening we heard the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  demonstrate his almost total commitment to the policy of the Government in regard to the Department for Education and Science, whose estimates we are considering. But before his 10 minutes were concluded he had very adequately shown that even for one who was totally committed he was dissatisfied with many aspects of the administration of the Education and Science portfolio by the current Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is, of course, understandable because this ministry, which was created in 1966 out of political expediency, has, since its establishment, been somewhat the neglected child of successive coalition governments. The Minister who now holds the portfolio has held it for longer than any of his predecessors. He has held it now since August this year for the second time. As he has been Minister for longer than any of his colleagues, one would expect that he would be fully conversant with the problems confronting the education system of this country. 
With such a history of instability in ministerial administration it is understandable that only last Tuesday the present Minister should speak of the Government's education programme for 1971-72 with indifference and Irresponsibility. He told honourable members that the Government fully recognised the national importance of education and of the development of educational services. He then proceeded to downgrade the importance of the education requirements of the States as disclosed in the nationwide survey of educational needs for the years 1971 to 1975. It was obvious from the Minister's statement that under this Government the vital responsibility for financing education in Australia will continue to be regarded in terms of how many votes it may be worth rather than how many children may be handicapped educationally by the current inequalities of the various systems throughout this nation. 
Tonight I wish to refer to one glaring example of Commonwealth neglect. I do so because without assistance from the Commonwealth Government that neglect will continue. The plain fact is that the Queensland State Government's financial position will not make it possible for the problem to which I wish to refer to be overcome without a stronger realisation by the Commonwealth Government of the needs in this particular field. At present one university is serving the needs of Brisbane and its immediate environs - the Queensland University at St Lucia. This university has Australia's largest student enrolment, currently reported to be 18,024. For some time it has been obvious that it is becoming impossible to accommodate young Queenslanders who seek tertiary education at that university. For years the Queensland University has resisted the imposition of the obnoxious quota systems that have developed in other States. Even this year quotas apply only in respect of second year students in the faculties of architecture, medicine and social work. 
The open door policy of the Queensland University has been maintained through the untiring efforts of the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Zelman Cowan, and the Senate of that university. It was maintained despite the Commonwealth Government's policy of restricting financial assistance to that amount which the States could match. But the open door is now to be closed slightly. In August the University Senate was forced by the Queensland Government to impose higher minimum entrance qualifications for next year. Intending students must now qualify by attaining a minimum of  24  matriculation points. This represents an increase of  2  points on the previous level for entry. The University Professorial Board, in making the recommendations for this increase, estimated that the number of students who would be prevented from entering the University next year would be about  700.  This decision has been forced on the Queensland University by the decision of the Queensland Cabinet and, indirectly, by the Commonwealth Government failing to take adequate responsibility for education problems at this particular level. The  President  of the Queensland Teachers Union,  Mr Gavin  Semple, summed up the effects of the Senate's decision very clearly when he said that the recommendation to raise the matriculation level was deplorable and educationally unacceptable. He said that if it were adopted - and it has been adopted - it will mean that in the next  3  years at least many hundreds of students who previously would have qualified for the University will be denied entrance.  Mr Semple  said that the folly of postponing the completion of the Griffith University until  1975  could be linked unquestionably to the introduction of quotas at the one university serving the area, the St Lucia university. I believe there is no doubt about this. 
It is the Commonwealth Government's responsibility that the development of the university at Mount Gravatt has not been proceeded with, and because it has not been proceeded with next year  700  students will be refused admittance to the Queensland University. Originally it was planned to enrol students in  1969  for the Mount Gravatt university. This proposal was post poned until  1972  but it now seems that even  1975  will be an impossible target for this vital project to commence enrolment. In  1969,  in referring to the financial needs of tertiary education in the  1970-72  triennium, the Queensland Treasurer said: 
It is clear that the rate of increase in expenditure envisaged is well in excess of the rate of increase expected in the State's resources in that period. 
At the same time in a Press report in answer to my criticism of the delay in starting work on the Mount Gravatt university my predecessor in this House - a representative of the Liberal Party - said that the delay in starting work on this university was caused by the State Government requesting the Commonwealth Government to hold off the availability of funds for Mount Gravatt because State matching funds were not available to proceed with its development. I am sure that the Minister for Education and Science knows of this situation because he held tha education portfolio at that time. My predecessor said the Minister stated that if State funds were made available for the Mount Gravatt university serious handicaps would be inflicted on the future development of the university at St Lucia and, in fact, the completion of that university could not proceed. 
An urgent review of the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States for the financing of universities is long overdue. When crisis threatens an industry associated with the rural sector of this country the Commonwealth Government acts quickly to make finance available by way of subsidy or grant. Often tens of millions of dollars are made available without delay. I do not question this. In many instances it is right and proper that such finance should be made available, but surely this critical development in the universities must be overcome, not only in Queensland, as I have outlined, but in universities throughout the nation. Secondary student graduates are being denied tertiary education in increasing numbers each year at our universities. 
I urge the Commonwealth Government to examine the report for the  1973-75  triennium in a responsible way when it is made available by the Australian Universities Commission. The Government must decide to end its policy of matching grants and release some of the $630m Budget surplus to the States for urgent university development. This is especially warranted for the development of Griffith University at Mount Gravatt. The next government - a Labor Government - will not be content until it ensures that the next generation of this nation has tertiary education available to every individual. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Sir JOHN CRAMER (Bennelong) (8.38) - 'Education is a State function but it is a national responsibility. It is interesting to look at the record of what has happened with respect to direct assistance from the Commonwealth Government. This assistance was started by the Menzies Government at the beginning of this coalition government's history. Finance was made available for universities. Since then, year by year there has been a constant increase in Commonwealth expenditure on education. Left to the States the inspiration for a higher education could never have reached the present standard. The Commonwealth Government has given a national impetus to education, not only in the national capital itself and in the Commonwealth Territories but also in State universities, colleges of advanced education and affiliated colleges. The Commonwealth has assisted in the provision of science laboratories, technical training schools, libraries, teacher training and research. One of the best things it has done has been to help independent schools. 
No matter what may be said, the Commonwealth Government is now deeply involved in education. The Commonwealth Government's direct expenditure - this is apart from the money that the States receive and which they are entitled to receive from the Commonwealth - has grown in the 3 years from 1967-68 from $176m-odd to S345m in this current year. It has never been given the credit for what it has done. But it is too late to turn back; we must go on. We must now aim, as I see it, for closer co-operation with the States on a national basis. There are, as we know, great differences in the approach of the various States to education. This is something in relation to which I applaud the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because he understands the position and has the right approach to education. 
Apart from the stimulation of higher and advanced education, one of the greatest things done by the Commonwealth Government has been the encouragement of the national acceptance of the dual system of education in the State schools and in the independent schools. Indeed, had it not been for this Government and its action in education over the years, many, many hundreds of independent schools in Australia would have folded up. Unfortunately there is still a minority, but a very vocal minority at times, who resent the government aid to independent schools. Mostly this is promoted, I believe, by the teachers federations of the States - the DOGS as they call themselves - and this is mostly based on a desire for a socialist state on the one hand. A certain amount of bigotry comes into it and a stirring up of the emotions of the people on a question like this to try to divide the people in the hope that they might gain some benefit from it. 
On the basis of pure economics there can be no argument against independent schools. These schools have been part of our accepted system of education for over a century. They have saved taxpayers in this country not small sums of money but thousands of millions of dollars over the years. Government schools would never have been up to their present standard if the taxpayer had to pay for the teaching of all the children in this country. If it were not for independent schools we could never have afforded the standard we have today. At the present time denominational schools have insufficient teachers. We never stop to think that the nuns and brothers in the Catholic school education system have given their services free of charge over the long years. No-one ever thinks of this. 
The denominational schools have insufficient teachers at the present time and of course they have to depend upon lay teachers who have to be paid. This has created a difficult economic position. If we did not support the independent schools it would certainly place a great burden on our government schools with less money to go around. So on the pure issue of justice in a country where education is compulsory no-one can deny the right of a parent to send his child to the school of his choice provided that the standard of education is met. One of the great things in this country, I believe, is freedom of religion and a parent therefore has the right to give his child a basic moral and religious education if he so chooses. All parents pay taxes and thus support government schools. They have the right therefore to assistance in meeting the cost of at least the secular part of the education in independent schools. 
The Government has failed in this Budget to increase the aid to independent schools. I know the difficulties. Apart from help with science laboratories and libraries, etc, there has been no increase in the per capita payments. 1 know that the States were given more money and are increasing their per capita payments, and I know that the increased amount that may be deducted for taxation purposes in regard to education expenses will be a help. Of course the independent schools will benefit by this; but many independent schools are doomed without further assistance. I believe that this Government must give more assistance and I think something should be done urgently in this direction. The present assistance does not meet the situation. 
In Australia there are 2,160,177 enrolments in government schools and 608,056 enrolments in independent schools. The Commonwealth grants are $35 for each primary school child and $50 for each secondary school child, which averages out at something under $40 for each child per annum. Direct expenditure on education by the Commonwealth today amounts to an average of $125 for each child in Australia. Less than $40 for each child is going to the independent schools, so it can be seen that the independent schools are at a very great disadvantage at the present time. The churches, and the friends and the parents of children going to independent schools pay at least an additional $300 a child to educate children in independent schools so this amount is a saving to the States and to the country. 
We all know of the recent survey that has been mentioned here. It shows that non-government schools, notwithstanding government and parents' payments, will be short of money for the years 1971-75 of a total of $267.6m. This means that this Government, in my opinion, must take this matter very seriously. It is not only a question of justice; it is a question of pure economics and the advancement of education in this country. I believe that a system could be worked out whereby a contribution for education could be made to every child in Australia as a right, with the States making up the balance in the State education systems and the parents and friends making up the difference for the independent schools' requirements. But in my opinion all children are entitled equally to a share of assistance in education. Children have a right to be given the kind of education that their parents desire for them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
by leave- I wish to make a short statement on the same matter. On behalf of members of the Opposition who sat on the Joint Publications Committee which considered the matters that have just been brought before the chamber, I want to add a few remarks to compliment the  Chairman  of the Committee the honourabe member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  on the very adequate way in which he provided the opportunity for all members of the Committee to put their  iews and the very fair way in which he allowed discussion to take place. I want also to support the remarks made by the  Chairman  when he complimented the secretary of the Committee,  Mr Grahame  Horsfield, for the excellent way in which he carried out his duties. I was very pleased to listen to the Chairman's remarks when he tabled this report because I think he spared himself no effort in putting the facts as the Committee saw them, before the chamber 
I would like to support the  Chairman  in one or two matters that he brought to the attention of the chamber today. The  Chairman  referred to the matter of the daily Hansard being available very readily on the day following what was said in the Parliament. He said that the daily Hansard was made available in order to give a comprehensive and exact report of what took place in this chamber. I support the  Chairman  in this regard and I support him in his efforts to have the Government reconsider its decision not to approve the machinery that is so vital to  Mr Murray,  the Government Printer, to enable him to carry out his work. 
I thank the House for giving me the opportunity to make these comments. I am sorry that I do not have the time to make further comments on the report. I will close by saying that this has been my first experience of serving on a joint committee of this Parliament and I see the immense value that a greater use of committees would be to the House. 1 hope that the Government will move very quickly, and follow the lead of the Senate, towards the establishment of more joint committees. I trust that it will not be much longer before this House has the same opportunity to do the valuable work such as is being done by the Senate committees. 
I want to make a few remarks in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts mainly because of events that have taken place in the last few days in my electorate of Bowman. This afternoon we have heard Opposition speakers very clearly illustrate that the Government cannot continue to pass the buck in regard to responsibility for Aboriginal welfare. As has been said, the referendum result clearly laid the responsibility at the Federal Government's feet. Speakers from the Government side, such as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  this afternoon got on to the old theme, hackneyed though it is today, of the  bandwaggoners and the do-gooders. It is a great pity that there are not a few more genuine do-gooders among Government supporters, because if there were I am sure that the event to which I wish to refer this afternoon would not have eventuated. I refer to the announced resignation a few days ago of Matron Joyce Wilding, who has been matron of OPAL hostel or the Joyce Wilding hostel in the Mount Gravatt area of my electorate, lt was established 16 months ago as a hostel for Aboriginal mothers who were passing through Brisbane and requiring temporary accommodation for various reasons - perhaps while they or their children were in Brisbane for hospital treatment. In many instances they were deserted wives. 
Previously  Mrs Wilding  had run a hostel for these people in Russell Street, South Brisbane. At one time she had more than 160 people staying at the hostel. Many of them were young fellows seeking accommodation. The Government saw fit to advance money to the hostel through the efforts at that time of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is present in the chamber this afternoon. I believe that he had a genuine interest in the welfare of these people and certainly a genuine interest in the social work that  Mrs Wilding  was carrying out. But frustrations have been thrust on her by the Government and by the Department administered by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  who sits at the table this afternoon. He has shown a complete lack of understanding of the problems she faced at Mount Gravatt. The officers of his Department refused to recognise the problems that I brought to their attention only in July of this year when the resignation of  Mrs Wilding  was imminent. 
I contacted officers of the Department and pointed out to them that all  Mrs Wilding  had asked, in her efforts to provide the very valuable service that she was providing in an efficient way, was that a few small requests be met. These requests were blocked time after time by the dictatorial attitude of the OPAL board  of  management in Queensland. I took the case to the Minister's Department and suggested that such small items be provided as an independent budget for  Mrs Wilding  to maintain the home efficiently and effectively, an independent board of management to assist her and a car so that she could take the sick and injured children for medical treatment in times of emergency. These requests have been rejected because of the influence of the OPAL organisation in Queensland which has frustrated  Mrs Wilding  and driven her to the stage where she had no alternative but to hand in her resignation. 
Yesterday when the resignation was made known to the OPAL board its  president, Senator Bonner,  who sits in the other place and represents Queensland as a senator, said 'We shall miss her'. Yet I suggest that it was the influence of this gentleman in particular, who has taken action in the past to prevent  Mrs Wilding  from receiving the assistance that may have been accorded to her by the Department for the carrying on of the very essential and valuable work that she had undertaken at Mount Gravatt, which has driven her to resign and driven her out of the hostel in order to illustrate the frustrations which she has faced, in working for the welfare of Aboriginals, through the incompetence of the Government. The Minister who at present administers the Department must bear a heavy responsibility for the failure to see the problems not only in this field but also in other areas of Aboriginal welfare in Queensland which are developing so quickly that it is almost too late to overcome them. 
Clearly the problems involved with housing Australians are numerous and complex. It is equally clear that they are too numerous and complex to be dealt with by honourable members opposite in their pitiful endeavours to explain the reasons why this Government has failed miserably over the years to provide adequate housing in Australia. We have had this afternoon in the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Housing only 2 speakers from the Liberal Party and one from the Country Party. I am the sixth  speaker  for the Opposition and there are at least 2 speakers to follow me from this side of the House. 
I said '2 speakers' because I understand that this debate will conclude when we adjourn at 5.45 p.m. There are enough speakers here to take the floor in this chamber to illustrate very clearly to the nation how inadequate this Government has been in facing the housing problems that have confronted Australians over the years in which Liberal governments have been in office. 
In 1966, in reply to a request by the Housing Industry Association for a Government sponsored inquiry into the future requirements of housing on a national level, the then Prime Minister said that home building was the overwhelming responsibility of private enterprise and that private enterprise was in a better position to survey the needs and requirements of the industry than the Government was. He reaffirmed his view that the task of forecasting housing demand and performances over a period of years was not one for his Government to undertake. While that Government and subsequent governments have been prepared to apply the stop-go squeeze policies, they have not been prepared to initiate an inquiry into the needs of the industry or thrust such an inquiry on to the private sector of the housing industry. 
This afternoon we have heard Government speakers offer reasons - and very poor reasons - why the people of Australia should be very satisfied with how they have been treated by this Government in regard to their housing wants. I want to mention one matter which was raised this afternoon by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  The honourable member spoke of the great satisfaction that members of the armed services should have with the very competent way in which the Government has looked after their housing needs. I was very pleased to hear such loud praise because only recently I was able to ascertain from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  by way of an answer to a question on notice an indication of just how incompetently the Government is looking after the housing needs of these people. 
I want to cite a few of the matters referred to in the Minister's answer to illustrate very clearly, in just one small sector alone, how grossly this Government has failed to provide for the needs of servicemen requiring accommodation in the various Service establishments throughout Australia. I asked the Minister the following question: 
At which defence establishments throughout Australia are premises provided for servicemen under the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement. 
How many, servicemen are (a) at present accommodated and (b) awaiting allocation of accommodation in these premises. 
At each defence establishment (a) what is the maximum waiting period for this accommodation (b) how many servicemen are accommodated in private premises and (c) what sum was spent in rent subsidies for private premises in 1969-70. 
The story that was unfolded was that the Government has failed grossly to provide accommodation for these servicemen; it has failed grossly to provide sufficient housing for the total number of servicemen requiring accommodation provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The Minister stated in his answer that 12,619 servicemen were occupying houses provided under the Agree-! ment. In addition I was informed that 4,458 servicemen were awaiting the allocation of accommodation and that the Government at this stage has planned to provide accommodation for only 2,400 of them. Therefore even if the planned accommodation for 2,400 servicemen had been available immediately, the short-fall in the requirement for married serviceman in Australia would still have been in excess of 2,000 houses. Yet, the honourable member for Bennelong suggests that servicemen should be satisfied with what the Commonwealth is doing for them by way of the provision of housing. 
I was informed that the number of servicemen accommodated in private premises is not recorded by the Services - the Navy, the Army and the Air Force - for each locality but that the total number of personnel in private accommodation was estimated to be 8,794 at 30th April 1971. The Commonwealth has been prepared to pay a total of $840,420 in that 12-month period by way of rent subsidies into the pockets of the hungry landlords instead of knuckling down and providing the housing that these people require in the defence establishments throughout Australia. Yet, the honourable member for Bennelong has the effrontery to suggest to this House, to the nation and to the people of Australia that the servicemen and the young people of Australia should be well satisfied with what this Government has done. 
I shall have time probably to refer to only one other matter during this debate. Ishould like to draw the attention of honourable members to this matter because I believe it also is of paramount importance to the need of Australians to be provided with housing at an economic rental or puchase price. I refer to the lack of initiative by this Government, and principally by the Department of Housing - and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who must bear the responsibility - to do anything towards bringing into effect the suggested tentative uniform home building code which was prepared by the Commonwealth Department of Housing and which was tabled in this House I believe in April of last year. Since that time the submission has lain in an atmosphere in inactivity. However, the preface to this submission stated that the interest of the Department of Housing was 'to achieve a worthwhile reduction in the cost of home building'. It went on to state: 
If this benefit is to be obtained, it is essential that the minimum standards set out in our 'Tentative Uniform Home Building Code', or standards close to these, be accepted by the major institutional lenders for housing throughout Australia. 
I would like the Minister for Housing, when he replies and sums up in this debate, to give the House an indication of just what he has done and what his Department has done towards getting this agreement between the various lending authorities. 
I glanced at the notice paper a short while ago and I saw that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has had a question on notice seeking information in regard to the adoption of this uniform building code since 17th August. As yet, that question remains unanswered. I think it would be fitting if the Minister for Housing spent a few minutes this afternoon telling the House just what has happened to this uniform building code. What initiatives has his Department taken to ensure the adoption of a uniform code so that the many thousands of dollars that are currently wasted throughout Australia by young people being forced to build according to a variety of local requirements. 
In this area and in many other areas this Government has failed. I had high hopes that the Minister would be able to perform better than his predecessor, but he has failed to do so. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In joining the Opposition's case for the establishment of a joint parliamentary committee on immigration, I want to remind honourable members this evening that in general Australia's immigration programme has operated in a satisfactory manner in the past not because of any great credit that this Government could claim but rather despite the Government. Let me remind honourable members that Australia's immigration programme was planned by the Australian Labor Party over 25 years ago. Its initial success was due to the brilliant and sympathetic administration of the scheme in its early years by Australia's first Minister for Immigration. I refer to the right honourable gentleman who is sitting on my left here this evening, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  Its continued success over the years has been due to the fact that successive Liberal Party Ministers for Immigration who have administered the programme have carried on the policy which was basically formulated and instituted by Labor's first Minister for Immigration. 
However, the Liberal Party has never had a basic immigration policy of its own, and it is not unusual, of course, that so many policies that we are able to illustrate effectively in this Parliament have come to fruition by accident rather than by plan. I quote not only my own words this evening when I say that this Government has no immigration policy. Let me refer in just a few words to a recent article subscribed to the 'Commonwealth Professional' of September 1970 by  Dr Peter  Lloyd who is a Senior Fellow in the Economics Departs ment in the Research School of Pacific Studies of the Australian National University.  Dr Lloyd  wrote: 
The starting point ot an; economic analysis should be the recognition that the Australian Commonwealth Government does not have, and has not had, a coherent policy on immigration. The immigration programme' consists essentially of an  i  in migration target,  announced  annually by the Commonwealth Government, and assorted schemes for assisting migrants by paying all or part of' their fares to Australia. 
Yet the Government, which is bankrupt of ideas for the operation of a suitable pro gramme for immigration in the 1970s and afterwards, is hypocritical enough to endeavour to belittle the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I say proudly that the Labor Party has, and it always has had, a detailed and concise policy on immigration. This policy recently has been reviewed and revised. Previous speakers this evening have spoken of this revision. Honourable members, and not only members from this side of the chamber, have referred to it, but not one speaker has been able to refer to any basic policy which the Liberal Party has on immigration. The Labor Party makes no secret of its immigration policy, or any of its other policies for that matter. Our immigration policy is published in a book of policy, and the policy of our 29th Commonwealth Conference is available for all to read. But where is the Liberal Party policy? It is nowhere to be seen. Let Government supporters produce it and let some speakers from the Government side spell it out here this evening. Tonight, one after another, honourable members opposite have done nothing but give their confused interpretation of the Australian Labor Party's policy. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who led on behalf of the Opposition this evening,  moved  an amendment which I support. I support the amendment this evening just as I  supported  the honourable member  for Grayndler  12 months ago when he suggested, during a similar debate in this chamber,  that a  select committee should  be appointed to inquire  into immigration.  Members of the  Opposition seek to bring the  Government to its  senses. We say, as the  Labor Party did  25 years ago, that the  Parliament should adopt  an honest, sensible  and Australian  approach to this nation's future immigration programme. As I said, 12 months ago during a similar debate I supported a proposal similar to the amendment which has been moved this evening and on that occasion I appealed to the then Minister for Immigration - of course, there is a different Minister now administering the Government's policy; the present Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is now sitting at the table, was the Minister for Immigration then- 
Changes in the Ministry are like a game of musical chairs, as the honourable member for Reid suggests. At that time I appealed to the Minister for Immigration to consider the plan to have a tame, departmentally appointed committee investigate Australia's future immigration needs. I understand that the investigation will take 3 years to complete. Such a time lag makes a joke of any benefit that could come from this committee's investigations because in the meantime - at least, during the last months of this Government - Australia's immigration policy will continue to drift along, changed to suit the whims of him who happens to administer the policy at any particular time. The most suitable group to study Australia's future immigration needs is one selected from among members of this Parliament, for it is in this Parliament that decisions on our future programme must be made. 
In supporting the need for a parliamentary committee I shall quote just one example that shows why today migrants are less willing to come to Australia or if they come, to remain in Australia after their 2-year contract period has concluded. In quoting this example I will show how ineffective it is for any Government appointed committee of inquiry to determine any need for change in our immigration policy and how difficult it is to have the Government accept any recommendation for change that it might submit. I refer to a committee of inquiry which was set up by the Government's Immigration Advisory Council in 1968. This committee revealed that one of the main factors affecting the attraction of migrants to Australia and their decision to remain here was Australia's social welfare programme. The document from which I quote is the official report of that committee. The report states: 
In discussing the importance of social services as a factor in attracting migrants, the Committee accepted that: 
although they would not deliberately weigh them, many potential migrants would take social services into account in assessing whether they would, in total, gain materially by coming to Australia 
the level and comprehensiveness of social services in some European countries, especially Britain and other advanced industrial countries, was a potent factor against leaving those countries 
the level of benefits in Australia, especially the existence of the means test in relation to some benefits, could give an impression that the Australian system compared unfavourably with those to which the potential migrants were accustomed 
Australian pensions were not payable outside Australia 
questions that probably entered into migrants' minds would include the gap in cover between the time of departure from home countries and eligibility under Australian schemes; and the residential requirement before full benefits could apply (e.g., widows' pensions) which had much greater impact on migrants than upon Australians generally 
migrants immediately after arrival frequently suffered from inability to join an appropriate benefit organisation either because of lack of knowledge of how to proceed or through lack of cash income to afford the payments involved 
There is no need for me to dwell on that point this evening because it was made very effectively to the Committee only a short while ago by honourable members on this side who illustrated to the Government the actual and absolute failure of its subsidised medical scheme. The final paragraph of the committee's report is a summing up of the position. It states: 
The Committee therefore expressed a strong doubt that social services in Australia could be considered as a positive factor in the attraction of migrants from Europe. 
What has this Government done about the report presented by that committee? To support what I have quoted from that report I quote from an article in the 'DutchAustralian Weekly' of 14th March 1971. It states: 
Australia will never get out of the doldrums - will never regain its name as a really good country to migrate to - if it does realise that it is not the rest of the world which is out of step as far as social services are concerned but Australia and Australia alone. 
Again this evening I make an appeal to (he Government. If the Government has any sense and if it wants to be Australian in its outlook as to the future of its migration policy in relation to the development of the country for the remaining part of this century, let it do once again as it did 25 years ago and follow the lead of Labor. The Committee should support the amendment, moved in relation to the estimates of this Department, seeking the establishment of a joint select committee to inquire into Australia's future immigration needs. 
Will the Acting Prime Minister confirm to the House in clear terms the implication conveyed earlier this afternoon by the Minister for Defence that no written request for military advisers has been received from the Cambodian Government either directly by Australia or through the American Government? In addition will he illustrate to the House whether he sees any similarity between the commitment of Australian military advisers to train Cambodian forces and the original commitment of Australian military advisers to Vietnam to train their forces in the war in which we are now actively engaged? In other words, it started with military advisers 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  referred to the fact that the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the estimates of which we are considering this afternoon, provides a service to the community. I believe that it would be in the interests of the community if occasionally the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  pointed out to his Department that in making decisions for the provision of public telephones and letter receiver it should give more attention to the provision of services to the people than to the fact that the Post Office should pay its way, which I believe is the paramount consideration at the moment. Often this latter consideration prevents a very important and desirable service from being established. But I do not wish to dwell on those matters this afternoon. 
I intend to be very parochial and to devote my remarks to problems in my electorate of Bowman, but what I will say applies in general to Brisbane and the surrounding areas. I refer to the provision of telephone services to private homes in these areas. A very grave situation has developed in regard to the availability of new telephones for private homes. It is perhaps a coincidence, but nevertheless it is significant, that the major problem areas appear to centre in my electorate of Bowman. Let me firstly explain that 1 do not wish to single out any particular section of the Postmaster-General's Department in apportioning the blame for this problem, nor do I wish to suggest that generally speaking any particular officer of the Department is at fault. From the dealings I have had with the Department, 1 have only the highest regard for the competence of the officers concerned. However, I must point out to the Postmaster-General that there is no doubt that various sections of the Department have contributed to the current situation. In particular, I believe that the planning section of his administration could be said to be responsible, to a considerable extent, for the development of the present situation regarding the connection of telephones to private homes. I believe that in the past this section has been to blame for not ensuring that cable and exchange facilities have been made available well in advance of the development of new areas on the fringes of Brisbane and that funds have been provided, as required, in existing areas. 1 believe that a telephone has ceased to be a luxury, but the Department has failed miserably in providing the facilities for the connection of telephones in areas surrounding Brisbane. If I am wrong and it has not been the fault of the planning section, then surely it has been the fault of the section which implements the recommendations of the planning section, and I suppose that the obvious reasons for this are economic ones. I believe that very often the effecting of economies in these areas is false economy. The exchange areas to which 1 refer in particular this afternoon are the ones where the greatest problems occur. I refer to the exchange areas of Wynnum, Eight Mile Plains, Capalaba, Mount Gravatt and Wellington Point. The problems in these areas existed before the end of the last financial year and, to the best of my knowledge, in the estimates which we are presently considering no attempt has been made to recognise the urgency of overcoming these problems. 
I shall give an illustration of what 1 believe is a serious failure by the PostmasterGeneral's Department to provide private telephone connections within a reasonable time, and for the purposes of the illustration I will take 3 months as the minimum period in which telephone applications should be met. In the Wynnum exchange area 46 applications cannot be met. In these cases the delay has been given as being between 12 and 24 months. The cases I am quoting are ones which have been brought to my attention; they are not cases about which statistics have been provided by the Department. In the Eight Mile Plains area - some of these cases are not within my electorate- 43 applications that cannot be met within a 3- month period are currently outstanding. In the Capalaba area 19 applications are outstanding, in the Mount Gravatt area 15 applications are outstanding, and in the Wellington Point area 7 applications are outstanding. But the present situation in the Wellington Point exchange area is that no exchange lines are available and I understand that they will not be available for a minimum period of 15 months. Wellington Point is a suburban area in which rapid residential growth is taking place. It does not call for much imagination to believe that the 7 applicants currently awaiting the provision of a telephone in their homes will be joined by 3 or 4 times that number of applicants before lines are available. 
The problem concerning telephone connections being unavailable appears to follow a similar pattern, which leads me to claim that the problem is principally in the planning section, as I have said in my earlier remarks, or in the section which is responsible for implementing the planning section's recommendations. I have many letters from electors in my area who have submitted applications to the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland. In many instances the explanation given for the unavailability of a telephone connection has followed a pattern; they seldom vary. I should like to quote from a few samples of letters to illustrate the seriousness of the problem. The first 2 letters were written to me about people in a particular area and they show that in a period of approximately 6 months no action has been taken to overcome the problem. I will not refer to the name of the particular applicant who lives in Richard Street, Lota, but the explanation given for this person's application being delayed by the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland on 12th January 1971 was as follows: 
Concerning the general situation in the Lota area, the position, at this stage, is that we are able to provide telephones inland from the railway line. However, we do have a problem between the railway and the coast and, in this area, it will not be practicable to satisfy applications for service until additional cable is provided. This will, unfortunately, entail work of a very extensive nature and, because of the magnitude of the task of providing new cable for quite a considerable distance, together with the large pro gramme of other new works to be undertaken, present indications are that this particular project will not be completed for about eighteen months. 
On 28th July 1971 I received a letter from the Acting Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland regarding an application for the installation of a telephone service in Barrinia Street, Manly, which is in the same vicinity as the previous case. On this occasion I was informed as follows: 
The telephone cable serving the area sides has been fully allocated to existing subscribers' services. It is not practicable, therefore, to provide further services until additional cable has been laid. This work involves laying pipe and a large size cable for approximately 11 miles. On present indications, it could be about 18 months before a service can be provided. 
So the same situation existed in July as existed in January. To the best of my knowledge - 1 would be very happy to hear differently from the Postmaster-General - the same situation currently exists, even though since then a budget has been introduced and new estimates have been prepared for the current financial year. Another serious case exists in the Gumdale area, and the same explanation has been given about the unavailability of cable. The large amount of work that has to be done in the area means that the cable will not be available for the services to be provided for a period of 14 months. We quite often hear about the problems in country areas, but here we have this situation in the capital city of Queensland. It is scandalous to consider that people are required to wait between 18 and 24 months for the small facility of a telephone in their homes for their private use. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of his expressed confidence in the correctness of the Government's action in agreeing that Australian instructors will be provided to train Cambodian servicemen in South Vietnam, will the Acting Prime Minister assure the House that he will consult with the Leader of the House so that he will be able to guarantee that if any attempt is made to rearrange business during the remainder of this session, General Business Notice No. 7, appearing on today's Notice Paper and submitted by the honourable member for Moreton, will be brought on for debate this session. 
I present the 13th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I rise this evening to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  As appears from the terms of that amendment, the Opposition believes that the Government has continued its long standing practice of failing to provide for the housing needs of Australians at an economic rental or purchase price. We looked forward for some months earlier this year to a new housing agreement which was being prepared for the consideration of the States. I, like so many Australians, had hoped that the new agreement would show a revitalised interest by the Government in the housing needs of Australians. 
It is not the Opposition's intention this evening to oppose this measure. Wc find ourselves in a position, which the States also face, in which we must reluctantly accept the Government's proposals and allow the passage of the Bill through the House. We are in a position similar to that of the States when they were confronted by the Commonwealth and found themselves with virtually no alternative but to accept the agreement presented to them by the Commonwealth. In some respects certain States found advantages in the proposals that were put to them. However, in other respects the proposals were most unacceptable to them but they had virtually no alternative to accepting the Commonwealth's proposals. 
The Bill should have been the result of a beneficial arrangement planned in consultation with the States. However, it is not so. On 22nd April this year in this House the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  gave a clear understanding to the House that the Commonwealth would confer with the States for the purpose of preparing a new 5-year housing agreement. That promise, something of a departure from the usual practice of the Government, many of us thought was to be in line with the announced intention of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to introduce a new approach to Commonwealth-State financial relations. The promise was soon to be broken. The proposed conference with the States was never held. Instead of consultation before the preparation of the agreement, this arrangement was conceived in secrecy by the Government. It was then thrust upon the States in a blatantly deceitful manner, leaving them little alternative but to accept it. Although small adjustments in the original proposal were forced on the Commonwealth by the States in ths discussions that were subsequently held at the instigation of 'he States, there was little adjustment to the original proposals, as we see in the Bill that is now before the House. 
Together with other members ot the Opposition I have spent a great deal of time endeavouring to understand this very complicated measure. I believe that it is an unnecessarily complicated document, obviously designed to confuse those who try to interpret it, obviously designed to appear of great benefit to the States, but yet of very doubtful benefit in either the short or the long term. Most of us realise that the comments that were made by several of the State Housing Ministers showed very clearly their attitude towards this new arrangement which the Commonwealth now proposes. The Queensland Minister for Housing,  Mr Hodges,  in commenting on the agreement said last November that the Commonwealth promised that there would be no change in the scheme that was then in operation, He said that the Commonwealth, despite its promise to hold consultations with the States, had not done so. He said: 'What they did was call us down and tell us to take it or leave it'. Such was the proposal of the Commonwealth to hold a conference with the States and to put forward a new attitude in CommonwealthState financial arrangements. 
The Opposition had hoped that, at this time when legislation was necessary to continue the provision of financial assistance to the States for housing, the Government at least would have put forward a scheme that would have clearly and definitely shown the great mass of Australians dependent on this method of finance for their housing needs that it had a genuine desire to answer their problems in a helpful and advantageous way. When dealing with the Commonwealth-State housing negotiations the Minister for Housing said on 21st August: 
This is a  completely  new welfare proposal. 
Let us look at the type of welfare proposal that has come from the Government. Let it be a warning to everybody between now and the next election when the Government proposes, as it will propose, new approaches to many of the current national problems that if this type of proposal is any indication of what the people can expect from the Government all they will receive will be the same type of treatment that they have received continually from Liberal governments over the years. This evening we have seen an illustration of the attention and the concern that is given by the Government to the problems of housing in the States. As in so many instances I have seen here before, after 2 or 3 members spoke on behalf of the Government it ran out of wind and left the rest of the debate to the Opposition. Without the speakers on this side of the House the debate on this very important matter would have lapsed long ago. 
In proposals in this field of responsibility and in many others the people of Australia can expect to receive the same unfortunate treatment and to have inflicted upon them, as they have had inflicted upon them by this Government, the same treacherous trickery designed to benefit nobody but the Commonwealth Government. An obvious question presents itself. 1 invite the Minister, in reply, to answer it. Why did the Commonwealth drop the previous arrangement, especially after giving an undertaking to the States that there would not be any change in the proposals that were to be put before them for the 5-year agreement? Why did the Commonwealth drop the previous arrangement whereby it advanced money to the States at the concessional rate of I. per cent below the current long term bond rate? 1 should like to take this opportunity to assure all those who will be in need of housing in the future that the Australian Labor Party certainly cares about their needs. My Party is proud of the policy it recently developed and put forward at its very successful 29th Federal Conference in Launceston. I have not noticed this evening any honourable member opposite producing copies of the Labor Party policy and putting it forward in their discussion of this matter. This is quite often done by them when they feel they can take some advantage from the Labor Party's printed policy. We are very proud of our housing policy and we are proud that it is available in printed form for all Australians to know the proposals that the Labor Party will put into effect after the next election. 
In the meantime the dead hand of liberalism has fallen heavily in the production of this arrangement. What more could be expected of this tired, complacent, distrusted Government, rent by factionalism and split by the personality clashes that we see from day to day and from week to week, which constantly displays its incompetence to cope with the present day needs of this nation not only in housing but in many other respects? This agreement is singularly significant for what it has not faced in the matter of Australia's future housing needs rather than for what it has provided for the sections of the nation most in need of the type of assistance that they should expect to get from a CommonwealthState housing agreement. Where is the concern of the Government shown for the low income earners, the pensioners, the migrants, the Aborigines, the deserted wives and the similarly disadvantaged people? They are the very types of people for whom such an agreement as this should be providing definite measures of assistance in the future. 
Recently Megan Stoyles wrote a series of 2 articles in the 'Australian Financial Reivew' on the national housing policy. I had intended to deal at some length with those articles this evening but f understand that the Government is anxious to proceed with further business of the House and wishes to conclude this debate. But I just want to mention one of the matters that was referred to in this article which was printed at the time the State Housing Ministers were to meet with the Commonwealth Minister for Housing in Sydney. It reads:   . . when Suite Housing Ministers come to Sydney on Friday lo argue about the fine print of the  next Commonwealth-State  housing agreement to last for the next 5 years, it is safe to say they will not be arguing the broader question of what s national housing policy is supposed to do or where it n&lt; going. 
The philosophy of a house and garden for all families which can afford a deposit and regular repayments is as central to housing policy and administration  today  as it was in 1918. 
The virtues of such a life are still espoused despite complex urban problems facing Australia in the 1970s.  1 think this typifies the housing agreement that has been put forward by the Government, the approval of which we are considering this evening. The Government has not caught up with the passage of time. It has not caught up with the needs of vast sections of the Australian community depending so totally on the financial assistance that should be forthcoming from a Government which should be showing national leadership to overcome the problems of housing in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
On what date (a) was the last proposal to redistribute electoral boundaries for the House of Representatives announced, (b) were the reports of the Commissioners presented to the House and (c) was the next General Election following the redistribution. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to a national television programme last Friday evening on which the Prime Minister, speaking of discussions he had with the British Government, said: 
For example I was told of what was about to happen in Rhodesia. 
Is he aware that a British Government spokesman had previously said that no prearrangement or advance knowledge of the settlement was known? Can the Prime 
Minister inform the House exactly what he was told, when he was told and by whom, or must we assume that this statement has no basis in fact, as a similar statement made in the same programme when, in reply to the matter raised by  Sir Robert  Menzies, who earlier in the week had criticised his Government, he said: 'We know where we are going'- 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In which  non-English  speaking countries  has  Australia Consular representation? 
How many officers are  on  the staff  of  each of these consulates? 
How many officers in each consulate are able to communicate in (a) the local language and (b) any language other than English. 
-I present the following petition: 
Tothe  Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration.  And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray, that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act On behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment  to  rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Did he state in reply to question No. 3299 (Hansard, 19th August 1971, page 389) that certain persons interviewed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's current affairs programmes Four Corners' and This Day Tonight' since 1st January 1970 were paid a fee ranging from $10 to $50 depending on their contribution and expertise. 
If so, will he state (a) the names of those people, (b) their particular expertise, (c) the number of times they have appeared and (d) the total amount each has received in fees. 
asked the- Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are the civil aviation regulations covering light aircraft which in recent months have been flying at exceptionally low altitudes over Moreton Bay in areas frequented by commercial fishermen and private boat users. 
What are the regulations covering any of these aircraft which frequently land on remote areas of the islands or nearby banks. 
Will the Minister issue instructions to ensure that all regulations are strictly enforced in. the future so that these light aircraft will not threaten the lives of people on boats in the Ray or disrupt large shoals of fish. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
is It a fact that excavations currently in progress on St Mark's Hill adjacent to Kings Avenue, Barton, in the Australian Capital Territory, are the preliminaries lo construction of a concrete batching plant. 
If so, will he state the exact nature of work being undertaken on the site including details of the. (a) type of raw materials used, (b) number of people employed; te) name of the contractor, (d) duration of the contract and (e) duration of the occupation of the site. 
Under which A.C.T. ordinance is occupation to be given, what documents embody the arrangements and what are the terms and conditions of the arrangements. 
What obligations will the contractor have to (a) rehabilitate the site when vacated and (b) ensure th? absence of pollution and nuisance from work on the site. f5) What penalties will apply for noncompliance with parts 2(d), 2(e), 4(a) and 4(b) of the question. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of ;he Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural sta'.e. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What sum in diesel fuel tax was paid by each local authority in Queensland in the financial year 1970-71. 
In view of the very restricted- financial situation of each of these -local authorities, especially those affected by the drought, and as they are providing essential government services to their communities and are non-profit concerns, will the Government take steps to refund this tax and "exempt the authorities from future-payments 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say whether 18-year-olds living in South Australia are considered legally to be adults and qualified to vote at State elections as from 30th June 1971. 
If so, what action will be taken by the Government to ensure that their rights under section 41 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth will be protected in the event of a by-election in South Australia for a vacancy in the House of Representatives or for the next House of Representatives election. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Are language allowances granted to those officers of bis Department whose competence in foreign languages has been formally established? 
If so, how many of Australian based officers at each of the diplomatic and consular posts listed in his answer to my question No. 4646 (Hansard, 30lh November 1971, page 3875) are currently receiving language allowances pertaining to the languages in official use at their particular posts? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
In which non-English speaking countries has Australia official trade representation. 
How many officers are on the staff of each of these Trade offices. 
How many officers an each office are able to communicate in (a) the local language and (b) any language other than English. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many employees of his Department are currently engaged in each of the exchange areas of Bulimba, Capalaba, Camp Hill, Cleveland, Coorparoo, Mount Gravatt, Eight Mile Plains, Redland Bay, Wellington Point and Wynnum on work to provide 
new telephone installations; 
additional underground cable; and 
additional exchange equipment. 
How many were similarly engaged in the 1969-70 and 1970-71 financial years. 
How many additional employees will be engaged in each of the Exchange Areas listed and for the work mentioned in part (1) during the remainder of this financial year, and when will they be added to those currently engaged. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
In regard to applications for telephone installations in each exchange area within the Brisbane telephone zone, how many (a) applications were received during the last year, (b) installations have been completed and (c) applications are held for which installations will be delayed for (i) up to 3 months, (ii) between 3 and 6 months, (iii) between 6 and 9 months, (iv) between 9 and 12 months, (v) between 12 and 15 months, (vi) between 15 and 18 months, (vii) between 18 and 24 months and (viii) more than 2 years. 
What action has been taken or will be taken to provide installations within a maximum time of 3 months from receipt of the application. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What is the location of each Trade Office throughout the world. 
In respect of each Office (a) when was it opened; (b) what has been its staff complement in each year since 1961 or since it was opened; and (c) what additional staff is proposed for each of the next 2 years. 
What are the basic duties of the officers at these offices. 
At what additional locations does the Government propose to open Trade Offices (a) before December 1972 and (b) during 1973. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to an article published at the weekend in the Brisbane Sunday Mail' and entitled 'Ambitious transit plan is lagging', in which the Queensland State Transport Minister,  Mr Knox,  referred to the public transport needs of south east Queensland, and in particular of Brisbane, and said that no major development in urban transportation could be carried out by the State Government until the Commonwealth indicated what financial help it would give. He went on to say that the State Government was eager to get started but that so far the Commonwealth Government had not given any indication of what part it would play. I ask the Prime Minister: Has any specific request for financial assistance been received from the Queensland Government to enable it to carry out this work? If so, when was it received? If a request has been received, does the Prime Minister expect that an announcement regarding some special Federal financial assistance will be made before the Queensland State election, which is due to be held in May this year? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he state in a press release on 7th January 1972, that at the ANZUS Council Meeting which he attended in New York on 2nd October 1971, the opinion was expressed that military competition in the Indian Ocean area could be avoided. 
If so, what action has the government taken to influence those nations, likely to engage in any build up, against doing so. 
In particular, has the Government sought to influence the United States to reverse its decision to maintain a Task Force in the Indian Ocean. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to tha public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. In view of his reluctance to answer questions previously I suggest that this- 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Did 60 high school students attend a science computing summer school at Lucas Heights during January 1972. 
If so, were those students selected from Sydney metropolitan high schools. 
Have arrangements been made for students from other parts of New South Wales and the other States of Australia to be given the opportunity to attend a similar school. 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state in a press release on 25 January, 1972, that three Lockheed Electras were being converted in the United States of America from passenger to freighter aircraft at a total cost of $1,500,000. 
If so, why is the conversion work not being carried out in Australia. 
What action did the Government take in an endeavour to have the work done in Australia. 
I desire to refer to a very important matter which was disclosed to me in a newspaper report yesterday morning. It is the reported withdrawal of the Cannon Hill abattoirs licence to process meat for sale in the United States. This matter, while being primarily the reponsibility of the Queensland Government, should also be of concern to the Federal Government and, more importantly, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I indicated to the Minister that it was my intention, to raise this matter this morning, but unfortunately prior commitments have prevented his being here. How ever, he has assured me that he will take note of the points that I raise and will give the matters his immediate attention. I trust that he will see the grave urgency of this matter and do so. This is a matter of vital concern to producers and unionists engaged in the meat industry. I put it to the Parliament that the Queensland Government, as so often has been the case in the past, has failed to cope with the need to plan and provide for present and future needs of the industry. This is certainly not the first warning it has received from the United States Department of Agriculture that the Brisbane abattoir, as it is more commonly referred to, has not been able to meet the hygiene and sanitation requirements that the United States has laid down for meat exported to that country. From memory it is the third time that the abattoir has had its licence withdrawn. The first occasion was for a period in the 1960s. It was later suspended for 3 months in 1970 and now it is facing suspension again. 
I want to express my very grave concern for the immediate and long term employment situation in view of this threat. The abattoir, while not being in my electorate, employs a great number of people from the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union and other unions who live in my electorate. This United States decision will affect some 600 to 700 employees of the abattoir. In addition, the fact that under its United States licence the abattoir processes about 50,000 head of beef cattle a year, representing about 42 per cent of the annual beef cattle killed at the Brisbane abattoir, gives an indication of the need to have this quantity of cattle killed elsewhere, creating a great problem for the primary producers concerned. If these cattle need to be taken to Lakes Creek or somewhere else, in addition to adding to the current unemployment position in Brisbane, it will place a grave and unjust cost burden on the primary producers. 
While at this stage I understand that the management has not been advised in writing of the requirements following the inspection carried out by  Dr Hall  on behalf of the United States Department of Agriculture, I believe that the requirements cover structural and sanitation deficiencies. There are suggestions that the sanitation problem was discovered by the inspector by scraping the floor under some of the preparation tables. No doubt this would be done under his interpretation of hygiene regulations that the floor should be as clean as the table. Actions such as this by these inspectors give rise to the argument that has often been put forward that the United States Department of Agriculure uses these unfair methods periodically to eliminate certain of the Australian sources of supply to reduce the quota imports into the United States. Of course, this is done in a way which, places the onus on the Australian abattoir concerned and eliminates the obvious possibility of the action reflecting on the purpose for which it is being taken. It seems to me to be more than coincidence that only as recently as 4th March much prominence was given in the Australian Press to a report by a United States Congressman,  Mr John  Melcher, who represents the beef producing State of Montana. On that occasion he was speaking to a United States House of Representatives committee and said that he did not allow his own family to eat hamburger meat or precooked meat that was likely to have come from meats imported from Australia.  Mr Melcher  said that the report on foreign meat plants by the United States General Office of Accounting showed that of 35 plants inspected in Australia 10 were so unsanitary that they were banned from exporting meat to the United States. He said that in these 10 plants the main deficiencies were unclean floors, chutes and equipment, flaking paint, rusty pipes, broken plumbing, ineffective insect control and lack of a sanitatation programme. The point I am making is that while this may on occasions give rise to some just cause for import quotas on the American market to be restricted, it is completely unfair for such a method to be used when it handicaps the production of our abattoirs in Australia. 
I desire this morning to highlight the abject failure of the Queensland Government over a long period of time to face up to its responsibilities and to see that the structural and hygiene standards of the Brisbane abattoir in particular receive the attention that they should have received from the officers of that government. We must bear in mind that this is a very old abattoir. It was constructed around about 1914, I understand, and was originally owned by Swifts. It was acquired by the 
State Abattoirs Board in 1931 and since those days, some 40 odd years ago, the abattoir has been under a continual programme of temporary rebuilding, a continual programme of additions and requirements being brought into effect as standards of structure and hygiene have required. At no stage during those long years has the Queensland Government faced up to the need to plan for the replacement of this abattoir which even as early as the 1940s was becoming obsolete. I can go back beyond the time of this Government but it has certainly been of more urgency in the life of this Government. 
Today it has gone far beyond the need to plan for its replacement. I understand that plans have been prepared for a $7.5 m abattoir to be built within a space of 3 to 4 years but this will not overcome the problem that today is immediately facing the producers of beef cattle sent to the abattoir and its employees, the members of the trade unions working at the abattoir. Provisions need to be made immediately to establish the standards required, whether they be unfair or not, so that continuity of employment may be maintained. It may even amount to the need for this Government to investigate the possibility of a special grant being made to the Queensland Government for the immediate rebuilding of the abattoir over a much shorter time than the 3 or 4 years suggested when the current plan was made. But at least the situation does demand that this Government take action to ensure that the Queensland Government faces up to the responsibilities it has failed to face up to in the past and that it should provide the standard of hygiene that can match up to even the unjust requirements of the United States meat inspectors so that in the future requirements such as those now sought by the United States cannot be brought forward to restrict our quotas to the United States. 
The debate on the States Grants Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) is in a way the final act of the comedy that was performed earlier this year, more often referred to in this instance as the special Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting of 14th February. On occasions such as this honourable members have the opportunity of making a rather broad analysis of the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. Much is spoken at times like this, and has been in recent years, of the need to revise the present guidelines of Commonwealth-State financial relations. One of the principal areas in need of a new, enlightened and, I believe, more mature approach, is the outmoded and almost pantomime type of act that the Premiers Conference and Loan 
Council has developed into over the years. 1 am sure that the Australian people would welcome an end to the ridiculous display that has been presented by way of Press, radio and television in the days preceding, and to some extent, following the holding of such meetings. 
As a preliminary to the actual meeting, publicity is given to statements by the Prime Minister and the Federal Treasurer of the need for restraint on the part of the States in their demands on the Commonwealth for funds. In turn the Premiers and their Treasurers list the particular and urgent needs of their own States and issue sometimes veiled and sometimes open threats as to what they intend to do to force the Commonwealth to meet their respective demands. A day or so before the meeting the usual official Press leaks from the Cabinet give an indication of the generous handouts that the Commonwealth proposes to give to the States. Finally, on the morning of the meeting it is usual to read in the metropolitan daily newspapers at any rate, if this information has not been given wider publicity throughout the Commonwealth, details of what the Prime Minister is believed to intend to offer the States when the conference takes place. One knows that this amounts always to less than the demands of the States. Nevertheless this information accurately reflects the final announced amounts that officially are heard at the completion of the meeting. 
Before these accurate assessments become official by the announcement of the Prime Minister at the completion of the day's proceedings, we have the ridiculous spectacle of the Premiers presenting claims and the Commonwealth protesting that the demands cannot be met and recommending lesser amounts as an alternative. Following the offer by the Commonwealth the Premiers protest that they cannot balance their Budgets on the amount offered. They argue that they must receive more than the Commonwealth has proposed. Usually the mid-day editions of the newspapers carry stories of an adjournment of the Premiers Conference. After the adjournment everyone gets back together again. The Prime Minister makes his final announcement, mostly on a take it or leave it basis. The Premiers, although reluctant, rather gratefully accept the amounts that have been offered. The ridiculousness of this situation is that the amounts have been known in advance for many hours and in many instances for days. The Premiers know, as we all know, when they go to these conferences that money will be offered to them, as I have said, on a take it or leave it basis because what the Commonwealth is finally prepared to offer them is the amount they must take. They have little opportunity to bargain with the Commonwealth because the control of the resources of this country is vested in the hands of the Federal Treasurer as is the ultimate control of the amounts that will be awarded to the various States at these conferences. 
It is almost unbelievable that grown men, who are the Premiers of their States and the leaders of the nation, are required to perform publicly in such a way in order to gain Commonwealth finance for their States budgetary programmes. We must remember that the finance that they will ultimately gain is the finance that is contributed in most respects by way of income tax and other charges that are levied by the Commonwealth on people in the States. I read recently a report of a Premiers Conference that was held in the late 1940s under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Ben Chifley. It is recorded that he announced a decision at the conference in this way: Ayes 6; noes - which was the Commonwealth - 1; the noes have it. While this may be taken in a lighthearted fashion it rather reflects the false justice of such conferences. We must face the fact that today the total control and power of the Commonwealth in arriving at conference decisions is effectively illustrated in this way. The imbalance of power at these meetings is long overdue for change. I cannot understand why the Premiers have not before this agitated for such change. I cannot understand why they have not rebelled before this, especially when this conference, as was the case with the Premiers Conference 1 referred to which was held in the 1940s, has become a regular piece of national machinery of government but in fact has no constitutional basis for being held. 
In making my opening remarks tonight on the preliminaries of the Bills we are considering 1 want to touch rather briefly on some of the aspects referred to in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I want to refer briefly to items that he has covered in respect of allocations to the States. For the most part I shall refer to items either referred to in his speech or omitted from his speech in respect of which the Commonwealth has fallen short of its responsibility to provide finance for the States. Firstly, I want to refer briefly to one aspect of the conference: It was decided to provide additional grants to the States for the relief of what was referred to as 'non-metropolitan unemployment'. Let me say that I, as I am sure all honourable members do, certainly welcome this financial assistance. I have, however, some doubt that the unplanned infusion of money such as this, virtually thrust into the hands of shire councils, will be anything but of very marginal benefit to the important work that they perform. I accept that the money will relieve their immediate unemployment problems. But I cannot accept that the responsible shires could use the finance to any real benefit when they have not had the opportunity to plan their works programmes for the expenditure of the finance. This is a typical example of the unplanned allocation of finance to the States that has become a well known practice of this Government. There is not one field to which I could refer tonight, even if time permitted, in which there has been a planned and positive approach by this Government to the allocation of finances to the States. 
The same paltry attitude is followed in each field in which the Commonwealth controls and allocates finance to the States. Year after year the Commonwealth allows the States to haggle for the finance with which it begrudgingly parts. In an unplanned fashion the Government makes finance available when in its view it is electorally favourable to do so. In many areas this has a detrimental effect on the prosperity of the States. In the particular instance to which I refer this evening it had a devastating effect on the critical unemployment problem in the States, particularly in the metropolitan areas. This has been referred to at great length. I wish to refer particularly to the unemployment relief that was provided for non-urban areas in Queensland and the failure of the Commonwealth to recognise the claims of the metropolitan areas. 
This failure was highlighted by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones. At the end of the Premiers Conference he said that the 9,600 unemployed in Brisbane - about half the State's total unemployed - would receive no unemployment relief from the Commonwealth grant. He said that although Brisbane had almost 50 per cent of the State's unemployed it seemed that it was to be denied the free money that was to be allocated to nonmetropolitan areas. He went on to say that it was time that the Commonwealth realised that with more than 50 per cent of the State's population living in Brisbane and in the near-metropolitan area, they should be entitled to a share of the grants and benefits given to the rest of the State. The important feature of this criticism of the neglect of the needs of the unemployed in the metropolitan areas was that the Lord Mayor was very strongly supported by the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, the leader of the Liberal Party in that State. I refer to  Sir Gordon  Chalk, who was very outspoken in his condemnation of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I will refer to some of the remarks that  Sir Gordon  Chalk made on that occasion in support of the Lord Mayor of Brisbane. He said: 
Brisbane has been given a shabby, unfair deal by an inflexible Prime Minister. 
They were the words of the Queensland Treasurer and leader of the Liberal Party in that State.  Sir Gordon  Chalk also said: 
Of the State's 131 local authorities, 130 will benefit from free money being spent to relieve unemployment, but Brisbane will get no free money from this grant. If extra work is to be) undertaken in the metropolitan area it will have to be met from the taxpayers' funds and the only way that the Lord Mayor can do this is to increase rates. 
That was not his strongest condemnation of the Prime Minister. He went on to illustrate to the people of Queensland just what they would expect to receive in the future while the same gentleman remains in the office of power that he holds in the Commonwealth today.  Sir Gordon  Chalk went on: 
I fought across the table for nearly half  an  hour but got an inflexible no. 

 Sir Gordon said that he was staggered when  Mr McMahon  refused to listen - refused to listen, mark you - to his plea to relieve unemployment in the metropolitan area. I have already referred to the figures that were cited at that time to show that the unemployed in the metropolitan area represented about 50 per cent of the total unemployed in the State. Since the newspaper article to which I referred earlier was published, statistics have been released in respect of the Commonwealth Employment Service. They relate to employment districts in Queensland at the end of February 1972. At that time the total number of non-metropolitan unemployed in Queensland was 10,097. The total number of metropolitan unemployed was 6,629. They are the correct figures. Surely they support the claims made by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and the leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland that Brisbane had been given by the Commonwealth Government and the Prime Minister in that instance - and I submit in many other instances - a shabby, unfair deal. 
As a result of the outspoken criticism of those 2 gentlemen I, my colleague the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross), Senator Milliner  and  Senator Georges  attempted to impress upon the Prime Minister the claims of the city of Brisbane for unemployment relief. It took the Prime Minister over a month to answer the telegram we sent to him. The answer he sent in a rather paltry and belated fashion endeavoured to justify the decision of the Premiers Conference. At least I can say that we made some efforts on behalf of the unemployed people of Brisbane to have the Prime Minister recognise their claims. 
Another matter to which I wish to refer this evening is the sorry way in which the States' financial obligations to various projects have been restricted because of their need to match grants to be paid by the Commonwealth. In many instances there is justification for special grants to be made to the States to allow the completion of projects essential to development but which cannot now be undertaken under the present arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States. Under that arrangement allocations to such projects are restricted because of the requirement of the Commonwealth that funds will be provided only to the extent that the States can match them. In this respect I refer to a recently published article which disclosed that $8. 5m allocated for teachers colleges remaining unspent by State governments in 1970-71. 
This was disclosed to the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee in Canberra on 28th March last. At that hearing an answer to a question by the  Chairman  revealed that in addition to that shortfall to which I have referred there was a shortfall of Sim in unmatched Commonwealth grants for preschool teachers colleges in the same financial year. In those 2 small areas of Commonwealth-State financial relations - teacher college allocations and pre-school teacher college allocations - the amount unspent and unmatched by the States in one year was $9.5m. We hear much in this place about the very great importance attached to the publicity that is given to the Commonwealth's making money available to the States, but we do not hear of much publicity given to the burdens that rest on the States and the hardships that they face when they find that some valuable, important and essentia] projects remain uncompleted and others cannot even be commenced because of the lack of Commonwealth appreciation of the problems of the States in these areas and the need to provide other than matching grants. 
There is just one point I would like to add to the considerations submitted on this section of the Standing Orders Committee report. While some justification has been presented for the sharing of the task that faces Ministers in attending to their responsibilities here, I point out that this House has 22 Ministers to share responsibility on behalf of the Government, whereas in the Senate the total responsibility for the Ministry, including the Cabinet, is accepted by 5 Ministers. So, there is no validity in the point made about Assistant Ministers being required to share the onerous duty of handling Bills through this House. Many more Ministers, including members of the Cabinet, are available in this place than in the Senate. In the Senate 5 Ministers have this responsibility, in comparison with 22 Ministers in this place. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr  Scholes's amendment) be added. 
I rise to support in a few words the suggestions which my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  made regarding the fairness of question time. I wish to quote a few statistics to illustrate the unfairness of the present situation and to show very clearly that the suggestion made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  was way off the beam, as ls usually the case when he makes suggestions from time to time in this chamber. This evening the honourable member for Mitchell suggested that over a period of time the position balances itself out and it is fair to all parties concerned. There is no doubt in my mind and, I am sure, in the minds of all members of the Opposition that that is not the case. lt has been suggested this evening that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  gets a lion's share of the allocation of questions to members of the Opposition. We agree with this. We think that in his position the Leader of the Opposition has every right to have the opportunity to ask not only the questions that he wants to ask of Ministers but also from time to time follow-up questions, as he is the only member on this side of the House who is able to do so. Apart from that consideration, question time is weighted heavily and unfairly against members of the Opposition. 
I repeat the point made by the honourable member for Blaxland: We have a limited opportunity to ask one question every 3 weeks of a Minister of the Crown. In other words, every 3 weeks of the session only one opportunity exists for a back bench member of the Opposition to ask a question of one of the Ministers of the Government. If this is democracy, it is lopsided democracy at its very worst. This evening during the course of this debate some members on the Government side have said that certain things that have been done and certain practices that have been followed by this Government indicate a breaking down of the democratic principles by which we should be operating the Standing Orders of this House. From my observations since I have had the opportunity to represent the electorate of Bowman, one of the worst features of the breaking down of the democratic principles of this House has been the unfair way in which question time has operated against members of the Opposition. 
As I said when I rose to speak, I just wanted to make these few remarks in order to record my protest about the unfair way in which question time operates. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  often refers to the fact that we have an opportunity to put questions on the notice paper. That is so, but what a joke it is. They remain on the notice paper for months and months, and then after they have been given due consideration by the Minister concerned, he is able to trot out some innocous answer to the question that has been asked of him. This evening  I  want to point out that only one member of the Opposition, apart, as I say, from the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - and I am sure that the House adequately accepts the reason why they are given special privileges in this regard - has asked more than 2 questions in this current session of the Parliament which commenced on 15th February last, and at the end of this week we will be within 4 weeks of the completion of this session. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  is the only member of the Opposition who has had the opportunity to ask more than 2 questions in this session. Every other member of the Opposition has had the opportunity to ask, at the most, 2 questions during this session. 
I will quote the opportunities to ask questions which have been given to other members. Very few back bench members of the Australian Country Party and of the Liberal Party have taken advantage of the privilege extended to them to ask questions in this House, as was illustrated by my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland who spoke earlier in the debate. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr England),  the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  have each asked 4 questions during this session. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has asked 5 questions, and the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  has enjoyed the privilege of asking 6 questions during this session. Up to the commencement of last week, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  had asked no fewer than 7 questions in this session. Those figures do not take into account the questions which were asked last week or today. They include the period up to 11th April last. Until that stage the honourable member for Paterson had had the opportunity of asking 7 questions. The most that only one member of the Opposition was able to ask was 3. 
Let us consider the way in which questions are weighed even more unfairly in favour of members of the Liberal Party. I suggest that 70 per cent of the questions they ask would be what are commonly referred to with truth as Dorothy Dixers, prepared by the Ministers. This cannot be denied even though Ministers get around the rulings of the  Speaker,  when protests are made by members of the Opposition about the abuse of Standing Orders, by pretending that they just happen to have notes before them concerning the questions they have been asked and are able to quote from those notes. We know that that is not true. 
The unfair manner in which this abuse of question time is perpetrated is illustrated by figures relating to questions that have been asked by members of the Libera] Party up to the beginning of last week's sitting. No fewer than 3 Liberal Party members have asked 3 questions each. Four members have asked 4 questions each. Six members have enjoyed the privilege of asking 5 questions each and one member has had the opportunity to ask 6 questions. So 13 Liberal Party backbenchers have had the opportunity to exceed the number of questions that have been available to members of the Labor Party - Her Majesty's Opposition in this Parliament and the Party from which one might expect, in a democratic way, questions calling upon Ministers to account for and justify their actions. 
Those members of the Liberal Party who have had the opportunity to ask 5 questions each continually ask questions of the Dorothy Dix type. 1 quote from statistics which have been provided as an official record of questions asked in the Parliament. It indicates that the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  has asked 5 questions. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  - we all know how he has the opportunity almost every week to ask his Dorothy Dixers - has asked 6 questions. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who has become an expert in the Dorothy Dix field in recent months, has asked S questions. The honourable members for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  have each asked 5 questions, as have the honourable members for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and Herbert  (Mr Bonnett). 
It so happens that Herbert is a marginal seat in the Townsville area. At least it is considered marginal at present but I think the electors have a different idea and the result in that electorate will be a resounding victory for the Labor Party which is waging a vigorous campaign there at the . moment. However, the honourable member for Herbert has been able to gain political capital from the unfair advantage that question time gives these back bench members who, because there are so few of them, are able to take off the gag and ask questions of Ministers. 
I believe we should endeavour to take a stand at this stage. On various occasions the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and  Mr Speaker  have said that it is their intention - even though perhaps in the past this has not seemed to be so - to make question time fair and equitable to every member of the House irrespective of Party representation. I therefore move the following amendment: 
That the following words be added to the question: "subject to decision No. 2 being referred back to the Committee for further consideration." 
 My question is directed to the Minister for the Army and refers to  a  letter I received from his predecessor dated 23rd November 1971 in answer to my correspondance over a period of time regarding the possible establishment of an  army  marine  base in  Moreton  Bay.  I  ask:  What were the changed complex circumstances referred to which made investigation by  a  'high level interdepartmental committee' necessary? Has the report of that committee been received? If not, when does he expect to receive it? If it has been received can he tell the House when he expects to announce details of the site chosen and the establishment plans? 
Along with other members of the Opposition who have spoken before me on this measure before the House, I naturally welcome the decision by this Government to accept the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to grant financial assistance amounting to S9m to Queensland for this financial year and in addition to authorise the Treasurer during the first half of the next financial year to make payments not exceeding $4.5m. The decision to approach the Grants Commission was announced by the Queensland State Treasurer and Leader of the Liberal section of the coalition Government in Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, when he introduced the Queensland Budget on 23rd September last year. On that occasion he told the State Parliament that the proposed expenditure of $571,389,253 would exceed revenue of $564,302,253 by a deficit amounting to $7,087,000. He further explained that this deficit, when added to the accumulated deficit of $4,006,259, made a total estimated deficit to the end of the 1971-72 financial year of $11,093,259. While this grant of $9m will not completely cover the deficit of more than Slim, at least it will go a long way towards doing so. 
Perhaps it is by coincidence but nevertheless it is worth mentioning that at the same time in his Budget Speech  Sir Gordon  Chalk also announced that his Government, as has been referred to earlier today by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  would go it alone with a $10m aid scheme to rehabilitate the wool growers in the Central Queensland disaster area from Charleville to Richmond. In explanation the Treasurer told the State Parliament: 
The State Government several times has pressed the Commonwealth Government for special aid for these producers but without success. 
In the introductory remarks made in its submissions to the Grants Commission the Queensland Government submitted that the application referred to recent heavy increases in costs and the additional responsibilities and reduced revenues flowing from the decline in the State's rural industries which have aggravated the State's difficulties. So in fact, even though the Queensland Government failed to gain the special grant it sought last year for aid to wool producers it now appears to have retrieved at least nine-tenths of that aid and virtually has been reimbursed by this Government in this grant, although of course we all know that the grant was not specifically directed for that purpose. However I wish to point out that this grant falls short by $1.5m of the figure requested by the Queensland Government in its submissions, and it falls short by $6m of the figure that was confidently predicted by the Federal Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who on 24th September last year, in applauding the decision to approach the Grants Commission, calculated that Queensland would collect more than $1 5m in a full year. 
It is interesting to reflect that the allocation of $9m in fact not only falls short of the amount on which Queensland had based its claim but falls short by $6m of the projected figure that one might say was the designated amount put before the people in public statement by the architect of the move by the Queensland Government, the Federal Minister for Housing. 
Over the years Queensland governments have strongly resisted pressure for Queensland to become a claimant State. This was always basically because of the possibility of onerous stipulations being forced on the State as a qualifying condition. The principle concern usually mentioned has been that, by some devious manoeuvre, the Queensland Country-Liberal Party coalition could use the grant as an excuse to institute a nominal charge on public hospital treatment. The retention of the free hospital system is of paramount importance to Queensland people. It has been the envy of other States since it was established by a Labor Government in Queensland over 25 years ago. Under a Federal Labor government the free hospital system of Queensland will be expanded. It will benefit from an additional $22ra a year that has been referred to recently in public statements by my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  as part of the comprehensive ALP health scheme. Contrary to the untruthful and malicious propaganda conceived by this Government during the 1969 Federal election campaign, Labor will develop and expand Queensland's free hospital system. It will construct periphery suburban hospitals which have long been needed in the outlying suburbs around Brisbane. These will be constructed with the additional finance that will readily be made available through this scheme. At present the overcrowded, overworked, understaffed and often underequipped Queensland public hospitals need revitalisation that Labor intends, as a Federal government, to give to the hospital system. Meanwhile I trust that Queenslanders will be reassured that no government action can be taken as a result of this Bill, either legitimately or otherwise, to further burden the run down, neglected, public hospitals of Queensland. 
The special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which was made available to honourable members only a couple of weeks ago makes very interesting reading, lt is a very revealing document. In clear, straight terms it is an indictment of the incompetence of the present Queensland Government. I would like to see the report made available to any Queenslander who still retains some confidence in his Government. I am sure that if this were done any fair minded person who might not yet be convinced that the coalition in Queensland should be tipped out of office in the next month would be convinced after reading this report. The Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, in announcing the $9m special grant, said: 
This has proved the approach to the Commission was justified. The Grants Commission apparently has been satisfied that Queensland needed further resources to enable the Government to provide services comparable with those in the major States. 
In fact the reverse is quite true. Possibly the main reason why the Queensland Government was successful in its application was the upholding of the long established principle, because since its inception the Grants Commission's recommendations have always been accepted by successive Commonwealth governments. 
A further contributing factor surely would be that the Queensland Government is of the same political affiliation as the Commonwealth Government is. There is no doubt that without this additional aid the inevitable alternative that faced the Queensland Government was bankruptcy. With an election about to take place, the serious implications of the situation would be not only certain defeat for that Government but perhaps if such were possible, a further erosion of public support for this Government. Only yesterday the Queens land Treasurer made some accusations in relation to the handling of the city finances by the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones. He accused Alderman Jones of financial recklessness. I believe that this is hypocrisy at its worst. Surely  Sir Gordon  Chalk must realise that the magnitude of his Government's incompetence and inefficiency both in the presentation of the submissions and in the general handling of his State's finances made the approach to the Grants Commission necessary in the first place. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with matters associated with the Bill under consideration which provides a special grant of $9m to Queensland. I had referred to the strange' situation that arose only yesterday when the Queensland Treasurer accused the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones, of financial recklessness. It was very strange to hear those words from the mouth of the State Treasurer when in all honesty he must realise that the magnitude of his Government's incompetence and inefficiency, both in the presentation of submissions and in the general handling of his State's finances, which made the approach to the Grants Commission necessary in the first place, is shown in the most inept financial recklessness of anybody in such a responsible position that I have seen in my time not only in this Parliament but also in observing the action of Tory governments over a long period of years. 
In his second reading speech the Minister made reference to the fact that because Queensland was a newly claimant State the Grants Commission had not had an opportunity to make a detailed examination of Queensland's financial practices and a comparison of them with those of the standard States. It is to the good fortune of Queensland that the Grants Commission did not have that opportunity to give the submissions of the State Government the detailed examination that they usually receive because in the time available to the Commission and in the examination that it did make of the submissions, it destroyed completely the credibility of the Queensland Government. I will refer briefly to certain sections of the report which prove conclusively that the present Queensland 
Government can no longer be trusted by the electors of that State with the responsibility of guiding that State's development. But firstly let me remind honourable members that this Queensland Government is the same Government with the same Cabinet Ministers who in recent years have been prepared to compromise their positions by accepting what could be described as inducements and privileges from companies holding or negotiating Government contracts to develop Queensland's oil and mineral wealth. In  1969  it was revealed that the Premier of Queensland was, one might say, up to his neck in dirty oil. He had managed to use information available to him as a Minister of the Crown to turn an investment of  $4  into  $720,000  with a holding of  1  million shares in Exoil NL. This showed the attitude of this man who leads the coalition in Queensland. While the aims of that company have been disposed of for the present, it is still possible that they could bc achieved. The situation is no different as one goes down the list of Cabinet Ministers. The  Deputy  Premier is no less guilty of using his public office for his own personal gain. Several other Queensland Ministers have done likewise. 
There is no need for me to remind honourable members of the disgraceful scandal which occurred early in  1970  when  Sir Gordon  Chalk and  5  other Ministers of the Queensland Government accepted offers of Comalco Industries Pty Ltd shares ranging from  2,500  for  Sir Gordon  Chalk to  700  for  Mr Campbell.  These shares purchased at the privileged price of  $2.75  each had risen in value to  $5.50  within a day of their being made available to the public on the stock exchange. It is important to remember the actions of the Queensland Government because remembering this and the code of ethics, or rather the lack of ethics, which motivate the decisions of its Ministers in the discharge of their ministerial responsibilities, makes one realise that one cannot expect any more from them than the shabby submission they made on behalf of the State to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It is in this context that we must examine the submission of that State. Certainly it was not to the best advantage of the people of Queensland. The submission, according to page  5  of the Commission's report, made the claim that the margin between Queensland's financial capacity and that of the standard States to provide a comparable level of services appeared to be widening rather than narrowing. In complete contrast the Commonwealth Treasury submitted that despite the claim that Queensland had made the fact was that Queensland's position visavis the standard States had been improving in recent years, mainly because of conditions which are listed in the report. I will refer to only one, namely, the very rapid rate of increase in the general revenue grants to the States in the last  2  years, as a result of which the per capita differential existing in the grants in favour of Queensland had also increased very rapidly. 
Furthermore, the Commonwealth Treasury added a general comment on the Queensland submission, and if it is not a condemnation of the Queensland Government then I have not seen one. Bear in mind that this is dealing very softly with the Queensland Government in recognition of the political representation of that State. The Commonwealth Treasury, as recorded on page  11  of the report, submitted as follows: 
. a belief that the material presented in Queensland's submission concerning the 1971-72 budgets of Queensland and the standard States 'is not necessarily reliable as an overall guide to whether or not a special grant is justified and, if so, of what size'. 
It finally sums up in respect of this by saying: 
Uncertainty as to the validity of 'a great deal of detailed argument and workings of the State submissions'. 
How then can this Queensland Government expect to be trusted with the guidance of the destiny of the people of Queensland when it has been irresponsible enough to have neglected the responsibilities entrusted to it in the past to the extent that it lias been ticked off by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in the words that I have quoted and which other speakers on behalf of the Opposition have highlighted previously in this debate. In commenting further on the claims of the Queensland Government, the Treasury said in the final paragraph: 
The Commission considers that it does not at present have enough information to make a judgment as to the validity of these claims by Queensland. In determining the amount of its recommended advance grant it has not made specific allowance for these factors. It invites the interested  parties to submit  further  evidence so that these matters can be more fully investigated before it recommends a completion grant for Queensland for 1971-72. 
I believe that the submissions to the Commission on behalf of Queensland have been very well protected by the influence of this Government upon submissions made by the Treasury. However, l suggest that because of the ineffectiveness of the case presented by the Queensland Government, it is quite right for speakers on this side of the House to say, as we have said, that the Queensland Government should be condemned for its utter failure to make a responsible approach to the Grants Commission and, in effect, as it has been clearly shown, that the Commonwealth Government should be condemned for seeing the opportunity that existed there and refusing to give Queensland a reasonable amount of grant. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to make a brief reference to a couple of points that were brought to light this evening. In particular, I wish to refer to the point I raised by way of interjection. To all intents and purposes I said that this was the pay-off. I repeat that this is the way that it must seem to many millions of people who only in recent days have been denied wage justice by a decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which was influenced, I repeat, directly or indirectly by this Government and by the Minister who is in charge of this Bill. Deny it if he will. What we in the Opposition want to see in this case is that in respect of these people, as well as all other workers in Australia, justice must seem to be done. In this instance it does not appear that justice is being done. As has been pointed out by previous speakers on the Opposition side this evening, this is the back door or underhand method of the Government to give these statutory office holders the salary increases that they were denied last year. 
This evening the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  blithely accused the Labor Party in the Senate of being responsible for these statutory office holders being denied their increase, and he quoted from the editorial in the JanuaryFebruary 1972 edition of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association journal. The Minister referred to the fact that a member of the Labor Party,  Mr Des  Linehan, was responsible for accusing the Labor Party of not being suitable to be the alternative government because of the attitude that it took in this instance. While to some extent what the Minister said was correct, might I say that  Mr Linehan  did not refer particularly to the Opposition but referred in group to the opposition parties in the Senate. I wonder whether the Minister would be proud of what Des Linehan said in that editorial, not about the Labor Party, not about the Opposition in the Senate, but about this Government. I reiterate the words he used in that editorial. He said; 
The events of the past few weeks- 
That remark applies equally today as it applied then -  . . show clearly that the McMahon Government has singled out Commonwealth employees as. the victims of a wage freeze as distinct from other sections of the community. . . . Commonwealth employees have been under attack since January 1971 by the Government and the powerful employer lobbyists. The public utterances calling for restrictions on Public Service wage movements have been deliberately biased and blatantly dishonest. 
In summing up the attitude of the ACOA he said: 
In pursuance of its salary aspirations the Association is seeking no more nor less than members deserve having regard to movements in both the public and private sectors of the work force. If the Association were not to pursue such claims it would be acting irresponsibly. 
I would add that if the Opposition were not to object to this underhand way in which the Government is endeavouring to raise the salaries of this one section of statutory office holders we also could be considered to be irresponsible. We are not this evening trying to prevent these people or anyone in particulor from receiving an' increase in salary. What we are endeavouring to do is to force the Government to do this in a decent, responsible and honest fashion - not in the way in which it is endeavouring to do it in this clause of the Bill. 
Without wishing to delay the House I compliment my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I also join my voice in protest at the limited time available in this House to backbench members, especially backbench members of the Opposition, to adequately represent their electors by having the chance to speak or to ask questions on matters which con cern them. I and other members of the Opposition, including my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  have previously highlighted the lack of opportunity for backbench members of the Opposition to ask questions without notice. I do not want to refer to this subject this morning because the appropriate time for reference to it will occur later. However, I should like to refer to the fact that some backbench members of the Government parties have had the opportunity this session to ask no fewer than 9 questions. Yet this morning I was struggling to get the call to ask my fourth question. I knew that I had little chance of getting the call when my colleague who sits beside me, the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls),  has not yet had the opportunity to ask his third question. 
Honourable members opposite criticise us and say that it is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who deprives us of an opportunity to ask questions. However, let me ask you,  Mr Speaker,  what opportunity is there for the Leader of the Opposition to uncover the injustices of this Government if he does not have the opportunity to do so at question time? He has little opportunity to put forward propaganda for this Party as Ministers have for the other side in answer to questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What amount was paid by the Commonwealth to Queensland (a) under the 'National Health Act as subsidies for both insured and uninsured occupied beds in public wards in 
Queensland public hospitals during 1969-70 and (b) under the amended National Health Act as a result of the requirement to pay a full $2 subsidy on all occupied beds during 1970-71. 
What is the estimated difference between the amount paid under the amended Act during 1970-71 and the amount which would have been paid if the amendment had not been made. 
 I raise a matter which, if not in the direct field of responsibility of the national Parliament, must surely be a matter in which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  should interest themselves. I refer to what has been described by the recently retired town clerk of the City of Brisbane as the most backward step in the history of local government in Australia. He said that the proposals of the State Government in Queensland to change the structure of the Brisbane City Council were, without any doubt the most retrograde which had been contemplated in almost 50 years. Since the inception of the Greater Brisbane system in 1925 Brisbane has enjoyed a unique form of local government, and more particularly in the last 11 years since the success in the 1961 election of the Labor team led by Lord Mayor Clem Jones the Brisbane City Council administration has been an outstanding success. It is an example that is used throughout this nation by all those interested in the field of local government as the ideal form of administration for a capital city, especialy a major capital city. I refer, of course, to the third capital city of th:s nation. 
The system of government which has enabled Brisbane to be changed from a large country town, not befitting the capital of the State, to a city which on today's standards provides all the essentials of good living is surely one which in a democratic sense most honourable members, I am sure, would agree should be left as it is. We wonder why any change should be contemplated in the light of the success of the system and the progress that has eventuated over the years because of the existence of this system. 
The Greater Brisbane area was created in 1925. It was formed by the amalgamation of the various town councils - 6 of them - the 2 city councils, 12 shire councils and numerous joint boards which existed in the city of 375 square miles. I have a personal interest in the success of the Brisbane City Council, my father being the mayor of the second council, the South Brisbane City Council, which operated at the time of the amalgamation. I quote from a record that was published by the municipality of South Brisbane at the time of the amalgamation. In a statement issued by my father he said: 
As the last Chief Magistrate, and the first Labour Mayor of the City. I relinquish my duties with a feeling of satisfaction rather than with a sense of regret, because the great social movement with which I am publicly associated was responsible for the introduction of a magnificent scheme of municipal government unparalleled. I believe, in any part of the world, and which I believe, ultimately, will enlarge the self-governing powers of the people. My colleagues in the council and myself retire from the minor sphere where we played our limited parts to the best of our ability, hoping that the great experiment will be a glorious success. 
Those words of my father, John Keogh, have been brought to fruition. The Brisbane City Council has been an outstanding success. Because of the corruptness of the Queensland State Government, there exists in Queensland today the type of government which I am sure no democratic country in the world would wish to have inflicted upon it. The government recently returned to power there is led by a Party that was able to achieve only about 20 per cent of the vote but a total of 26 seats in the Parliament. The Country Party, supported by its partner in crime, the Liberal Party - which polled 22 per cent of the vote for a total of 21 seats; nearly as many seats as its percentage of the total vote - is able to inflict its wishes on the democratically elected city administration i;i the Greater Brisbane area. 
I note with interest that I am to be followed in this debate by another representative from Queensland, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who sits on the other side of the House - but not for long. I am afraid that he has not had the courage to stand up and say what he knows to be the trinh of this situation. I do not like doing it, but I must compliment another Liberal member, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  At least he was prepared to come out and make a forthright statement saying what be believed about this action which is proposed by the Queensland State Government. He said: 
I am astonished by the State Government moves to change the Brisbane City Council. The fact (hat the proposals were announced only  6  weeks after  a  State election without reference having been made during the campaign to them can only be described as one of the most lamentable exercises in cynicism in the history of Australian politics. 
But, of course, we have been told that the Queensland Minister for Local Government knows that he is doing the right thing and that he is carrying out something that is in the best interests of the people of Brisbane. To support this view he has explained on television that he consulted with the taxi drivers of Brisbane and they advised him that it was the right thing to do. 1 believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should take an interest in what is happening in Queensland and take up the challenge that was thrown to him by the Premier of Queensland during the State election campaign when, as we all remember, there were full page advertisements in the Queensland newspapers which proclaimed: 'While the nation looks for leadership Queensland has Joe BjelkePetersen'. It is a great tragedy that Queensland has Joe Bjelke-Petersen but in Queensland Joe Bjelke-Petersen is supported to the hilt in this particular issue by some members of the Liberal Party, led by the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, who for political expediency has thrown all semblance of political honesty to the winds in supporting this dirty package deal that the Liberals in Queensland have made to allow the Country Party to refuse daylight saving to the people of Queensland. As one southern newspaper explained, this only means that the Government of Queensland is now 100 years and 1 hour behind the times. lt worries and concerns me, as someone representing an electorate in Queensland, to have this style of government inflicted upon the people of Queensland and to have the threat now existing that it will inflict its style of administration on the people of the City of Brisbane. I know that the Prime Minister will say that it is not a matter within his field of responsibility, but is a matter for the State. Let me remind honourable members that as recently as yesterday the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that his Government believed in co-operation with the States and consultation with the States. I ask the Prime Minister who, as Leader of this Government has been outstanding in rising to protect the democracy of many other countries which Australia supports and who believes that democracy should be protected in other countries, especially in the area of South East Asia, to show some concern for the opinion that these people may have of something that is about to be inflicted upon people within our own nation. I challenge him to show the type of leadership that Joh BjelkePetersen claims he does not have, to show it by calling upon the Queensland Premier and the  Deputy  Premier, either publicly if he has the courage or at least privately, to protect the rights of the people of Brisbane and to preserve the style of democracy which exists in the city of Brisbane for the citizens of Queensland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his announcement on 26th January concerning 
Cabinet and departmental papers covering the war years 1942 to 1945 and the reduction of the access rule from 50 years to 30 years. On that occasion he said that he expected the first group covering 1939 to 1941 to be available about the middle of this year. I ask the Prime Minister whether these documents disclose that the Liberal and the Country Parties cannot be trusted due to their bungling and failure to safeguard this country's interest during their period in power. If not, when will the documents be released, and does the Prime Minister expect that all documents up to 1945, which will give a clear illustration of the outstanding quality of the Labor Government, will be released before the election? 
In following the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in the Budget debate I must say that the best thing that can be said for him is that at the rate his partner in the coalition is going at present he could very well be making his next speech in a Budget debate from this side of the House, not just as Leader of the Country Party in opposition but as Leader of the Opposition. He spoke about things in which we know from past experience he has no genuine interest. The hide of him to stand in this House this afternoon and talk about the workers of Australia and his concern for their security, and to talk about the young families in Australia when all this Government is prepared to do for young families in regard to such an item as child minding centres is to offer them as much as it is prepared to offer the farmers to pull out trees which a few years ago it encouraged them to plant. That is the policy of this tired listless Government. 
The best that I can say about this Budget is that without doubt it will go on record as the last of a long tragic line of LiberalCountry Party budgets, not one of which has had any clear plan for national progress and development. Each one has been designed principally to suit the immediate purpose of the Government and, of course, the main aim of the Government at this time in this Budget was to save its political future. From start to finish it is a give away bonanza budget designed in a desperate attempt to win votes and to save Government supporters from electoral defeat. Its long list of benefits will naturally be welcomed by the recipients'. Many of the social service and repatriation increases fall far short of the level a Labor government would currently be paying. Many increases, for example, the homes savings grant, were predictable and long overdue. One serious problem that this benefit has failed to overcome is the great need for financial assistance for young couples who have not been able to save for the home they wish to buy and thus benefit from this grant. 
At present in Queensland 4,691 applicants are seeking rental accommodation through the Queensland Housing Commission. Of that number 4,227 applicants with 40 points or less - the points system is operated by the Queensland Housing Commission for the allocation of houses - face at least a 2 year wait to rent a house. The majority of these applicants are young couples most of whom would prefer to own a home if the hopeless problem of saving a deposit to purchase a home could be oversome. But even in the 2-wage economy that this Government has allowed to develop in Australia, that is an almost impossible task for many of them. The hypocrisy of the  Deputy 
Prime Minister to claim that the Government is genuinely interested in young families. What a joke. " 
What has this Government offered these young people who seek to purchase a home? It has offered nothing, despite the claim by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech that in framing the Budget he was concerned with the needs of the family man. Surely it is time for the introduction of such beneficial measures as have been urged on the Government by. the Housing Industry Association, for example, for assistance to low income earners.- That Association provided me some time ago- - as I nm sure it did all other, honourable members - with a copy of its submissions. I mention only 2 of them. Firstly:the Association calls for more Government finance for public housing programmes, especially for cooperative building societies, and secondly, it calls for a reduction in or subsidy on interest rates as a practical means to assist lower income families to- obtain- their own home. The Housing Industry Association recommends that interest charged on housing loans should be included as an allowable deduction from assessable income for personal tax purposes. This provision operates successfully in other countries, as many honourable members may know. 
If the Government is genuine in its desire to help young families where in this Budget is provision made for this? Surely it is time to consider such things as 100 per cent loans for low income .families unable to save the required deposit, 'which would be some where between 10 per- cent and 20 per cent of the cost of a home? Why should a young couple with 10 per cent equity be considered more morally reliable, less likely to default on their repayment commitments, than the equally deserving couple in need of that little extra 10 per cent help to buy a home on no deposit? Yet this Government does nothing. 
Press reports suggest - leaks from Cabinet and ministerial discussions no less - that the Government is planning to announce the introduction of a scheme of capitalisation of child endowment for housing purposes similar to a scheme in operation in New Zealand since 1959. If this scheme is to be introduced, why must the introduction be delayed simply to suit the Government's purpose of announcing its introduction in its election policy in an effort to buy votes. If it is so beneficial, why the delay? Electors likely to be influenced by the scheme would be well advised to remember such promises in previous times by the Government as the abolition of the means test, first announced in 1949 and now, as we see, to be the subject of a departmental feasibility study to see how it can be implemented. This, of course, is forced on the Government by the definite undertaking of the Labor Party, which is well known, to abolish the means test by 1975. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his remarks on the Budget, this Budget sets no strategy. We are merely told that in looking at the years ahead the Government has in mind a number of considerations. Its principal link with past budgets is to clarify the failure of the last two. It is the second budget by the present Treasurer. That at least indicates a greater degree of stability in this portfolio than existed for some years previously. The 1970-71 Budget was delivered by a Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who was sacked from the Cabinet and finally sacked from the Ministry. The 1969-70 Budget was delivered by the Treasurer who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Honourable members will recall how in this great Liberal Party that he represents he came to power. He came to power by the political assassination of the previous leader of the Liberal Party who the Party then believed, quite wrongly, would be the most disastrous leader to take them to the next election. 
It is interesting to note that in each of the budgets to which I have referred there has been either a resultant deficit or a planned deficit. For the years since the 1968-69 Budget the accumulated deficit is $ 1,284m. 1 do not claim to be an economist, but it seems to me that a disastrous situation has been allowed to develop in this country in the financial management of the national resources. Yet the Prime Minister appeals to the nation for confidence. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  spoke this afternoon about confidence and suggested that the nation should have confidence in this Government. Apart from anything else, I cannot imagine how he can expect confidence from the nation when his Government has handled the finances of this nation in such an irresponsible way. This has been highlighted in this Budget by the very obvious way that money has been thrown around in an endeavour to buy back the flagging electoral support that has been shown repeatedly in public opinion polls for many months now. 
Certain Government supporters during this Budget debate have referred to the cost of implementing Labor's proposals. Noticeable amongst these was the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who I thought at one stage in his excitement about the costs of the Labor Party's policies was about to have a stroke or burst a blood vessel. Government supporters have talked about the costs that would be inflicted upon the nation if the Labor Party was in government and its proposals were to be put into effect. It is interesting to note the Prime Minister's attitude to financing Government policy. If this applies to the present Government surely it must apply to the Labor government after the next election. In a prepared weekly radio broadcast on 16th August following the Budget the interviewer, Paul Lynch - as many honourable members will know, he is one of the approved interviewers the Prime Minister will allow to interview him on the national radio programmes - asked the Prime Minister in part: 
On the incoming side of your finances, with this 10 per cent cut in personal income tax, do you feel there is any risk you won't be able to pay the larger social service bills? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
No risk whatsoever because the Commonwealth always has the power to be able to pay for the promises it makes and the legislation it introduces. 
The philosophy that the Prime Minister applied to the way that the Government is able to manage the nation's affairs surely indicates that if this Government can pay for whatever policies it introduces a Labor government equally will be able to pay for whatever policies it introduces. One of the stock in trade remarks of the honourable member for Wentworth at the time when he was Treasurer was that the past is a mirror of the future. The past is certainly a mirror of the future and the people of 
Australia would be well warned that the past performances of this Government mirror the future that they can expect from the Government should they ever be unlucky enough to have the same Goverment inflicted upon them after the next election. In a speech to a business and professional men's dinner on 24th July the Prime Minister is reported to have said: 
I want to sum up in this way. Confidence is catching. If we all have confidence, talk with confidence and above all, act with confidence, we will get ahead faster and much further this year than we did last. 
Of course that would not be very hard to achieve. But let me remind the Prime Minister and the Government that they cannot con this nation into having confidence. If qualities of leadership are obvious, if stability of performance warrants confidence, it will come naturally. The Prime Minister may as well face the facts.  His  leadership is not worthy of the people's confidence and is not likely to become so. How can he expect confidence in himself or his Government when even his colleagues who sit behind him in this Parliament lack confidence, in .him? As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  reminded the House yesterday, the Country Party of Queensland had very little confidence in the Prime Minister during its last election campaign when it com.paigned with a full page newspaper advertisement claiming that while Australia searches for a leader Queensland has found Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Of course many of us will agree that it is not a very high standard to set, but nevertheless it is the way that the Leader of the Country Party in Queensland, the Premier of Queensland, thinks. We will not go into the fact that he is Premier because of a  gerrymandered electoral boundary system. The fact that the Premier of Queensland supported such an advertisement shows what little confidence he has in the Leader of the Liberal Party in this Parliament, the Prime Minister of the nation. 
The things the Australian people should be carefully considering in the next few months before the election are very clear to him. There will be no confidence shown in this Government and in the Prime Minister unless that confidence is warranted. But of course even Government supporters are reflecting public opinion because many of them during this Budget debate have indicated the certainty of a Labor victory in the next election. Member after member on the other side of the House has spoken of the impending defeat of the Government, and misquoted, distorted or misrepresented Labor Party policy. I have sufficient confidence in the Australian people to feel sure that even now their minds are firmly made up that it is time for a Labor government. They know that this transparent, hoodwinking Budget is nothing but an election bribe. They know that the only alternative to a new Government is a continuation of the present Government in some form, perhaps under a new leader, but certainly a continuation of the stop-go attitude of the present Government. 
I have here dozens of newspaper reports picked out of my files in the last 12 months. 'McMahon to' Act on Poof Rating' is a headline from the Telegraph' of 2nd September last year. The headline Nothing has gone right for Billy!' appeared on 5th September 1971. Others are: 'Credibility is the PM's- latest crisis', PM climbs to fame - and Blame', 'Liberal MPs call for Meeting'. The Liberal members of Parliament referred to 'included the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who spoke this afternoon of what a great Government we hive. 'Liberal MPs call for Meeting- that Was to depose the present Prime Minister. ' ' 
I am 'quoting the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 27th March 1972. On 26th May this year this was reported: 
Suggestions had been made that there would be a change in the Prime Ministership, the Sta*.e Country Party  President, Mr. R.  L. Sparkes, said today. 
It is still not too late to make the change. 
 Mr Sparkes  was talking about the leader of a partner in the coalition. That is what I am referring to. I intend to finish my remarks in this debate by speaking briefly about one of the problems that the Government has failed to tackle successfully throughout the life, of the Liberal-Country Party coalition since 1949. Even now, the Government, having in ite hands an effective plan to provide for the stability of the shipbuilding industry, appears to be firm in its opinion that the industry in Australia must continue as a necessary evil rather than be fostered and developed in a stable fashion for the future. Recently a spokesman for the Australian shipbuilding industry,  Dr Hughes,  criticised the Government for its failure to implement the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding. He criticised the Government principally for its failure to subsidise ships that are constructed mainly for overseas trading purposes. He said that the situation is that the Australian National Line currently is planning construction in a Japanese yard of a 731 -foot vessel of design similar to the 'Australian Enterprise'. A publicly owned Australian organisation is thus giving work to an overseas yard while our own shipyards are facing a crisis through lack of orders. 
I want to mention this point because the Government has talked about what a great deal it is giving the future shipbuilding industry in Australia by the piecemeal implementation of the Tariff Board report. It is implementing certain sections of the report to suit its political aims and intentions. It has no genuine desire to implement the report in total and thus provide planned successful prosperity to this very valuable industry in Australia in the future. I call upon the Government to act genuinely and to realise the gravity of the problem facing this great Australian industry. I plead with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to give an assurance that the Government will review its refusal to accept the Tariff Board recommendations to grant subsidies on vessels built for export use and immediately to instruct the ANL, as a special consideration for the present unemployment level, to renegotiate the contract and complete arrangements for the construction of this vessel in an Australian shipyard. 
I will end my speech on that note,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but no doubt my appeal has fallen on deaf ears. There is no doubt also that the Australian shipbuilding industry is doomed unless there is a change of government. I am sure that there will be a change of government and that the industry will be secured after the next election. 
asked the Minister for Repa triation, upon notice: 
What is the estimated number of (a) Boer War and (b) World War I veterans who are still living. 
What is the estimated cost of providing Repatriation Hospital treatment to any of these veterans who are now, or may become in the future, ill oi disabled, whether their medical condition is war caused or not. 
Can he say whether it is the policy of the United States Government to provide all war veterans, including those who served in Vietnam, free treatment in their military hospitals without regard to whether their illness or disability was war caused or not. 
In the debate on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  I want to refer to certain aspects of the situation currently existing in Brisbane with respect to Eagle Farm airport, particularly to certain aspects of its proposed siting. The way the Government has spoken so often and for so long about a new airport in the Brisbane area has become almost hackneyed now. A new airport at Eagle Farm to replace the existing airport has been discussed for so many years that I am sure the people of Queensland do not believe that it will ever eventuate. This work originally was planned to start in 1965. On 22nd October 1969- it might just be a coincidence, but that was a few days before the last Federal election - the Brisbane 'Telegraph' carried the headline: Plans on new airport "nearly ready" '. The then Minister for Civil Aviation was quoted as saying that multi-million dollar plans for the Brisbane airport were almost ready for submission to the Federal Government for approval. 
But since then, of course, if we oan accept the word of the Minister, other plans have been put into effect or are about to be put into effect for the redevelopment of the Brisbane airport on the existing site and they will replace the plans that were being considered in 1969. The report by the advisory committee that was appointed from representatives of the Commonwealth and State governments and the Brisbane city local authority to consider all aspects of the development and updating of the requirements of the Brisbane airport was submitted in January of this year. It proposed that the Brisbane airport be resited to the northeast to include an area known as Cribb Island and that the runways be reconstructed in almost an entirely different area to the existing Eagle Farm airport. 
I would suggest that, while this may overcome certain existing problems, it poses new problems about which I am greatly concerned. In regard to the cross runway and the proposed resiting of the Brisbane airport, which is referred to as proposal Q of the advisory committee's report, on a normal takeoff across the cross runway which, it has been suggested, will be used only as an alternative to the main runway, the aircraft would be in almost a direct line with a densely populated residential area in the Lindum area of my electorate. An aircraft taking off to the south on the cross runway would be at a height of approximately 2,000 feet over another very densely populated area in the Manly section of my electorate. If this development is to proceed I want some definite assurances from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in respect to these areas of my electorate which, I believe, are seriously threatened by the resiting of the Brisbane airport. I agree that the noise exposure forecast area, which is commonly referred to as 25NEF, does not cross the river in respect to this runway but while it does not cross the river - there is an area of industrial development between the residential area to which I referred and the river on the airport side - it certainly will cause much greater problems to people in the residential areas along the bay side than they experience at present from aircraft landing and taking off from the existing runways at Eagle Farm. 
Naturally enough, this matter greatly concerns me. I am concerned about problems that may arise not only from the landing of aircraft on the cross runway but also from aircraft that would be turning to land on the main runways and which I have on reasonably good authority be approaching at approximately 1,200 feet over the Thornside area of my electorate. Although this is not a closely developed area today, it is very quickly becoming a closely populated residential area and would suffer significantly from any noise hazard. It may be argued that these problems are hypothetical and in certain cases can be overcome by the adoption of regulations covering landings and takeoffs which would vary the flight paths sufficiently to move the aircraft from the areas that I have mentioned. It may also be readily argued that resiting proposal Q to which I have referred and on which I base my assumptions of problems in my area has been adopted after consideration of various proposals and is the best possible solution to the problem of minimising the noise nuisance to people in the majority of existing suburban developments. To a large extent, I accept that contention and I agree that the proposal is a vast improvement on either further development of the existing site or any of the other alternative proposals considered by the advisory committee. However, I object in the strongest possible terms to the Government providing any solution that at the same time presents a possible threat to any other suburban area of an offensive aircraft noise hazard, more particularly when it is an area that I have the responsibility of representing in this Parliament. 
I believe that the time to protest and to draw the attention of the responsible authorities to this matter is now. It may well be that the noise hazard has been moved from Hamilton and parts of the suburban areas on the north side of the river but we will not solve the problem by moving the noise hazard to suburbs on the south side of the river. Before the proposal proceeds any further, I want an absolute assurance from the Minister for Civil Aviation that the problem of aircraft noise, which at present is reasonably minimal in the bayside suburban areas of Brisbane, will not be increased in even the slightest degree. I urge the Minister to instruct those officers engaged in preliminary investigation and planning to concentrate their plans and costs estimates on reclaiming an area adjacent to the shores of Nudgee Beach and Cribb Island so that the site can be moved further out into the Moreton Bay area. In so doing, the direction of the cross runway can be moved east from the suburban areas on the south side of the river and aircraft movement could be generally concentrated over Moreton Bay, 
I urge these things because, as I said a moment ago, I believe that, while I have some complaint about the fact that this new proposal has further delayed the plans of redevelopment of the Brisbane airport, at least it might be timely for the Government now, before planning reaches the stage of consideration by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works, to give attention to these problems and to other matters that have been raised by Captain Holt, an ex-president of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. Captain Holt has called for a slight realigning of the main runways. 
Another matter to which I should like to refer and which could be implemented immediately in respect of the existing Eagle Farm airport is an alteration in the glide slope to the approach over the Hamilton area for aircraft on a visual landing approach. The glide slope could be altered from 2.6 degrees to 3 degrees. I believe that this recently has been put into effect in respect to landings at Mascot with a certain amount of success in minimising the noise problem in the areas affected. I know that, to some extent, the contours of the land in the Hamilton area contribute to the noise problem but this variation in the glide slope for visual approach landings on the eastwest runway would certainly give some relief to the people in this area who have faced a grave noise problem for many years. 
 In the consideration of the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department this evening I wish to raise a matter which concerns the gentleman who sits in the Senate and holds the position of Attorney-General at this stage. Much attention has been given to the administration of his portfolio in recent days. This morning various national newspapers made headlines of the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  was so disturbed and so disgusted at the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in not facing up to realities that he had to express the opinion that the AttorneyGeneral, in suggesting that the existence of the Ustasha in Australia was a myth, was not expressing Government policy. 
I wish to refer to other aspects of the Attorney-General's administration which are not particularly of recent times but which I believe also indicate that there could be some doubt as to the right of this gentleman to expect the support of the people of Australia in continuing to administer the portfolio that he holds today. I suggest that the Attorney-General has compromised his position as Attorney-General in not ensuring that action was taken in relation to a matter to which I wish to refer principally and which was raised with me by a gentleman who lives in the electorate of Bowman. The gentleman concerned had the misfortune to invest a fair proportion of his savings in a mining exploration company. He reasonably expected a profitable return on his investment. Instead, he saw his savings disappear completely. 
 I realise that I was not listed to speak in the debate and I do not intend to delay the House. But I want to take the opportunity for one moment to explain a misrepresentation by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  Tragically, of course, we have come to expect such misrepresentations.  His  reputation is such that one wonders whether he makes his misrepresentation deliberately. He said that the Australian people were fortunate that the Australian Labor Party was not in a position to control the rates of pension at the moment because the Australian Labor Party had promised to tie pensions to the consumer price index. I make it quite clear that at no time was such a promise made on behalf of the Labor Party. The promise which we made to the people of Australia and which we will keep is to take pensions and other social service benefits out of the realm of political expediency, to take these payments out of the Parliament where they have been used over the years for political purposes. Our promise was, in fact, to tie pensions to a percentage of average weekly male earnings, which is a vastly different proposition from the misrepresented position put by the honourable member for Mitchell. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to weekend Press reports that the Kangaroo Point shipyard of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd faces a crisis which could result in the closure of the yard and the resultant unemployment of up to 1,500 skilled shipyard workers? Will the Government give an assurance that an immediate decision will be announced to guarantee Evans Deakin a 
Evans Deakin has no plans to put off 1,500 suitable order to provide continuity of employment and remove the threat of dismissal of these men? 
 I wish to refer in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise particularly to the surveillance over drugs being smuggled into Australia, which I believe to be ineffective because of the small amount provided in the estimates for this purpose. A publication with a fairly wide national distribution, the 'Bulletin', published an article which claimed that 80 per cent of all drugs being blackmarketed in Australia are estimated to be made or processed overseas. The Director of the Federal Narcotics Bureau said that at most probably 15 per cent of those drugs were being intercepted. Following his recent return from an overseas visit, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said that the illegal traffickers were now working out such ingenious methods that law enforcement authorities could no longer hope to stop drug smuggling into Australia. I do not want to argue with the Minister over that point but in my opinion the Minister and his Department are losing the fight against drug smugglers. I do not want to suggest that the Minister is losing the fight because he lacks a genuine interest in winning but rather because the effective forces that he has available to him, and which are determined by the limited budgetary finances that his Government is prepared to make available to him, are virtually forcing the Minister to fight the battle with one hand tied behind his back. I want to deal specifically with the Port of Brisbane. That port is within my electorate and I have had many opportunities to discuss this problem with people associated, through pleasure and work, with Moreton Bay, and from the information given to me by these people I am very firmly of the opinion that drug smuggling surveillance in the Port of Brisbane is so limited that it could be described as almost completely ineffective. It is high time the Government gave effect to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which included the following: 
The Committee therefore recommends that all steps possible should be taken to strengthen collaboration between existing Australian and International law enforcement agencies against drug trafficking and that urgent attention be given to the establishment of an Australian Coast Guard Service adequately equipped with vessels, aircraft, land based support and communications. The Coast Guard Service could appropriately be placed under the control of the Department of Customs and Excise with provisions for adequate liaison with other relevant departments, for example those departments responsible for health, fisheries, immigration and rescue services. 
In its report the Committee also said: 
The Committee has concluded that Australia is being well served by the dedicated group of law enforcement officers involved in the fight against drug trafficking. It believes that whatever resources are necessary to improve their efficiency in this fight should be provided without delay. 
The purpose of my entering this debate was to make such an appeal to the Government particularly in respect of the Port of Brisbane from which I believe a large quantity of drugs is flowing to the rest of Australia. From the information I have at hand there is no effective surveillance of ships or aircraft coming into Brisbane unless it is surveillance which has resulted from reports or, as they are often referred to, 'tip-offs' given to the Department. I have with me 3 newspaper cuttings reporting actions taken by authorities against drug smugglers. They are typical of the reports we usually read when smugglers are apprehended. Almost traditionally reference is made to the fact that the action was taken following information being given to the Department. Recently the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 23rd September in referring to the drug squad and the Bureau of Narcotics investigators smashing on the previous day a drug ring which was peddling drugs reported that the investigation began after police received information about drug peddling in Brisbane. Some time ago at the Coolangatta Airport drug smugglers were apprehended. The Press report said that this was as a result of a tip being given to the Department at lunchtime on the previous day. 
This situation has not changed in recent years. Back in 1970, soon after I came into this Parliament, my attention was drawn to the circumstances surrounding some Chinese deportees who were picked up off the Queensland coast just north of the Mooloolaba pilot station. A newspaper report there dealt with the fact that the customs and immigration officials learned of the plot to smuggle the Chinese into Australia and they acted as a result of the information they received. It seems to me that the old saying that we often hear that charity begins at home has been neglected by the Government. In recent times I read of the gift of 6 patrol boats to Malaysia to assist that country in overcoming the drug smuggling duties of the Malaysian police. I refer also to an earlier statement this year which said that similar patrol boats were to be given to the Philippines. It  seems  to be a sad condemnation of the Government that these very suitable craft are being given to these countries when they are facilities that could be used by competent crews available in Australia to do the same job that they will perform in other countries. We have 12,000 miles of unbroken coastline. I sympathise with the Minister in his efforts to provide sufficient drug surveillance, but I do not believe that this has been effectively carried out in areas such as the port of Brisbane where it could be carried out. I refer to a recent report in the 'Sunday Mail' of 12th March this year which stated: 
Some drug smugglers ... are floating illegal consignments of 'hard'' drugs overboard in Moreton Bay to escape Customs detection. 
Referring to informants, the report stated: 
They said that men in small boats pick up the drugs and deliver  them to  a Brisbane syndicate. 
Do not believe,  Mr Chairman,  that these things are fairy tale in origin. Do not believe that these things are not occurring. I have had enough experience around that area to know that they are. The one patrol boat that is available to the Department of Customs in Brisbane at the moment represents only 50 per cent of the effective force which was available when I asked the Minister a question some 2 years ago about the facilities that were available in the port of Brisbane for surveillance in the Moreton Bay area and off the Queensland coast. At that time 2 small craft were available; now there remains only one. I believe that this craft is not being used as effectively and as efficiently as it could be used. 
On trie admission of the officers of the Department to whom I have spoken - I repeat that they are doing their best - this boat operates only on the basis of the information the Department receives. It seems to me that the secret of success as regards drug smuggling, particularly in the port of Brisbane, is to avoid suspicion. If a smuggler avoids suspicion, he avoids surveillance and consequently avoids detec- tion. I would need to be convinced that this craft is being used effectively. Perhaps in an effort to convince me or even to convince himself, the Minister might be prepared to have a look at the running sheets or the log book of this launch. I would be very happy if he did that and, if he wants to convince me about this matter, perhaps he would allow me to look at those records also. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 wish to raise three or four matters tonight in the consideration of the estimates of the Department of Immigration but firstly I feel that I must not let the opportunity pass without referring to one of the statements made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  He referred to the fact that the Opposition's bipartisan policy on immigration had been abandoned. I interjected at that point and said: 'Hear, hear!' I repeat that remark and say that it is to the credit of the Australian Labor Party that it has cast itself adrift from the discriminatory practices into which this Government has allowed itself to lapse in the interpretation of what we hoped could have continued to be an immigration policy that did not discriminate against people for malicious reasons. The Labor Party has specifically laid down in its policy that it would not discriminate against people because of the colour of their skin or their ethnic origin. But to suggest, as some honourable members opposite have suggested in the fear tactics preceding an election, that this attitude of the Australian Labor Party indicates an open door to Asiatic migration or to the breakdown of the Australian way of life, is malicious in the extreme. 
As the time available to me this evening is brief 1 will not devote any more time to that point, but I am sure that the Australian people will take those remarks of honourable members opposite for what they are worth and disregard them completely because I think that today they are well aware of the actions of this Government as it moves one step at a time towards injecting tear into the community in the hope that Government supporters will retain their seats in the Parliament and that the Government will regain office at the forthcoming election. I want to refer to several aspects of immigration policy that I believe give the lie to some of the instant policies of the Government of recent times and which indicate very clearly the breakdown of what we hoped could have continued as a fair and reasonable bipartisan policy on immigration. In recent days honourable members were treated to the Government's instant policy on decentralisation. Probably in no other way than in the treatment of migrants coming into the country could it be more aptly illustrated that his Government has no genuine interest in decentralisation. 
Let us take, for argument's sake, the hostels that have been provided for migrants in Australia. Thirteen of the 14 of those hostels are in capital city areas. The purpose of the hostels is, rightly, to provide services to assist new arrivals to settle into the community with the minimum of heartbreak and in the quickest possible time, to provide welfare officers to assist them with their problems of education and social services, to provide housing advisory officers and employment services. The important point to consider is that when the free accommodation available to a migrant is set up in areas where employment is not available and the migrant has to move from that centre to seek employment, he is left very squarely on his own. The Commonwealth fails to take any further interest in him. Its attitude is: 'You can go, but you go on your own.' If the Commonwealth had any genuine interest in establishing a policy of decentralisation that the nation has been crying out for - the Liberal-Country Party coalition has been aroused in recent days by the Labor Party's long standing policy on decentralisation - nowhere would it have been better for the Government to start than with the establishment of migrant hostels in places other than the capital cities. 
I want to refer to another matter which illustrates how this Government has abandoned any semblance of interest in a continuation of a bipartisan policy. How long has the Government continued this ridiculous policy of a $20 holiday in Australia? Despite realistic efforts by honourable members on this side of the Parliament and even on odd occasions by some of the more forward thinking members on the other side of the Parliament, the Government has absolutely refused to concede the need for any change in this policy. I call on the Government tonight, at this eleventh hour of its existence, to cast aside the $20 holiday in Australia which has been so openly abused by so many thousands of what I might refer to as illegitimate migrants who have come to this country, particularly during recent years. In the few remaining minutes available to me I want to refer to another reason why the migration programme has broken down from the point of being considered realistically a bi-partisan policy. I refer to the failure of this Government to provide decent, reasonable social serevice benefits for migrants. Because of the complicated systems of social service benefits which vary from country to country they may not have been aware before they came here of the unattractiveness of the social benefits in Australia. After being in Australia a short time they clearly become aware of these inadequacies. Let me quote from 'DutchAustralian Weekly' of 14th May 1971 which in part reads: 
But like so many ostriches the powers that we are ignoring - deliberately and stupidly ignoring - the main reason for that reverse stream: Australia's shocking social services that run miles behind the times. 
The report goes on: 
Australia will never get out of the doldrums - will never regain its name as a really good country to migrate to - if it does not realise that it is not the rest of the world which is out of step as far as social services are concerned but Australia and Australia alone. 
In case it is argued that this is a biased approach and a biased attitude to social services in Australia, let me refer briefly to a report of a committee which was chaired by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  Among others on the committee was the past  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Albert  Monk. The report said: 
The Committee . . . expressed a strong doubt that social services in Australia could be considered as a positive factor in the attraction of migrants from Europe. 
The advisory committee that was set up by the Government to inquire into aspects of its current migration policy made that very forthright condemnation of the Government in relation to social service benefits and their influence on the return of migrants from Australia once they reached the stage - to put it quite bluntly - of waking up that they had been hoodwinked into believing that they were coming to a country where a better life was available for them. While this story may have sold very easily in the days after the war, that position no longer exists. 
I, too, wish to make a personal explanation in the same terms as those of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In answer to a Dorothy Dix question set up by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)- 
Yes. I have 2 questions on notice directed to the Minister for Housing. The claim by the Minister for Housing that he specifically referred to questions without notice is an unfair reflection on me and other honourable members because the limited opportunity we have to ask questions without notice forces us to place questions on notice. The fact that he is facing certain defeat in the next election is no justification for him-- 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth complete powers under the Constitution to pay all social service benefits. 
Does the Commonwealth subsidise 50 per cent of the value of pensions paid by the States to deserted wives during the first  6  months  of  their desertion. 
If so, are there any valid reasons why deserted wives should not receive their pensions from the Commonwealth instead of from the States. 
asked the Minister  for  Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth acted to stop the introduction of the freshwater fish Nile Perch into Queensland by the State Government; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
ls information available to the Government that either confirms or denies the reported intention of the Government of China to explode nuclear devices in the Pacific or Indian Ocean at an early date? 
Should an announcement be made by the Government of China that it intends to explode one or more nuclear devices, will the Government on behalf of the Australian people immediately lodge with China and the United Nations the strongest possible protest against such a decision? 
I never cease to be amazed at the way in which honourable members on the other side of the House carry on. Every ill in this country and every problem in this country is caused by the worker and by the workers' just demand for wage justice. 1 listened to the completely distorted remarks on the recent problem at the 
Ampol oil refinery in Queensland made by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes).  I sympathise with him because his car was likely to be out of petrol when he arrived in Brisbane last Friday. But I cannot understand why he has to be down on the worker all the time. He did not make one reference to what happened in the early part of last week when the company had refused to negotiate with the union on an annual wage adjustment. It was not until industrial action was taken that the hand of management was forced to negotiate and to take the matter to arbitration which resulted in the settlement of the dispute. 
Nothing has been said by honourable members opposite about the inconvenience that was caused for many weeks in Queensland and in northern New South Wales by the decision of companies to curtail supplies of fuel to their service stations and to take no action to bring supplies of fuel from other parts of Australia - from the south - to replace the supplies that were not available in Queensland due to a breakdown in plant at the Ampol refinery. These things are neglected and no reference is made to them. Immediately industrial action is taken by the working men or women of Australia they are looked down on. They are accused. They are made to feel, by what honourable members opposite say, thai they have no rights left and that they should not be in a position to take action to remedy these things. I do not want to delay any further by references to these matters tonight. I felt that they should have at least some comment before 1 proceeded to make my main remarks in the limited time - the curtailed time - that we have available to us this evening. 
I certainly support, as other honourable members on this side of the House have supported the Bill which will grant SI Om to Queensland for the 1972-73 financial year. That sum certainly is far short of Queensland's financial needs, from my point of view and the point of view of members on this side of the House, as aptly illustrated in the remarks of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  It is a ridiculous situation when the Slate of Queensland has to come begging to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for the essential finance to carry out development works in that State. But, of course, the requirements and needs of the Queensland Government that have been met by the Grants Commission are, to some extent, particularly in relation to some matters to which I shall refer, caused by the inefficiency of the State Government to so handle the affairs of that State as to provide finance from royalties on minerals and from rail freight rates, with which I shall deal, in line with the rates that could be provided. Of course this is criticised by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its report. 1 feel that it is appropriate to take this opportunity to examine somewhat critically the references of the Grants Commission and the Treasury officials to these matters. The preliminary report of the Commission in relation to the granting of $9m to Queensland for 1971-72, which the Parliament debated, rejected the statement in the Queensland Government's submissions that the margin between Queensland's financial capacity and that of the standard States to provide a comparable level of service appear to be widening rather than narrowing. The Commissioners stated that, conversely, the Queensland position in comparison with the standard States has been improving in recent years. They listed the reasons and then in the clearest terms made a forthright condemnation of the Queensland submissions. On page 11 of the report the Commissioners stated:   a belief thai the material presented in Queensland's submission concerning the 1971-72 budgets of Queensland and the standard States is not necessarily, reliable as an overall guide as to whether or not a special grant is justified. . . .' 
In an explanation they went on to say that the uncertainty as to the validity of a great deal of detailed argument and workings in the State submissions was the basis for this assertion. The report continued: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
This is certainly so. Queensland does make a relatively low effort in this field, and I will refer to that again in a few moments time. Railway charges were not dealt with in any great detail by the Grants Commission report. I suppose the reason can be best explained in the following quote from the Queensland submission which appears in part 14 of the Commissioners' report dealing with railway charges: 
It is realised that a considerable proportion of rail freight is carried at contract rates for which details are not available, and it may be assumed that a similar relationship exists in contract rates and that the comparison we have made reflects the general level of freight rates. 
Before I deal in more detail with these 2 matters I believe it is important that honourable members consider the background of the Queensland Government leaders and particularly certain of the Cabinet Ministers. It is important to realise that these men, the leaders of the Country-Liberal Party coalition in Queensland, the political colleagues of the Liberal-Country Party Federal Ministers, hold office not because of the majority of electoral support that they are able to gain at the elections that are held in that State but because of the gerrymandered State electoral boundaries. They retain the majority of members in the Queensland Parliament by this method rather than through the method of receiving favourable and popular support, because all the favourable and popular support goes to the party in Opposition, the Australian Labor Party. 
I shall not dwell this evening on any particular detail of the characters of the Queensland Ministers. I would not seek to bore the  Deputy Speaker (Mr Corbett)  who has shown a great deal of attention to my speech and who would, 1 realise from the smile on his face, like to hear me say some of the things that could readily be said about some of his Queensland Country Party ministerial colleagues. They are pretty well known right from the dealings which the Queensland Premier has had in oil shares and the things that he sought to do, through the companies he had an interest in, to the Great Barrier Reef. These things must be said because these are the people who are dealing with the affairs of Queensland; they are the people who can rightly be declared not to be taking sufficient interest in ensuring that the royalties which should be rightly coming to Queensland are coming to that State. 
When one looks at the actions of these people it is easy to understand why the criticism has been made by the Grants Commission and why Grants Commissioners expresses the opinion that Queensland is not making sufficient effort to gain the mining royalties for that State which it should be gaining.Queensland's levies are particularly low and the roylaty rates on mineral production compared with other States put Queensland in a grossly unfavourable position. I shall quote just 2 instances. Let honourable members opposite deny that they can be linked to the attitude of the Queensland Ministers who negotiate the contracts. In the financial year 1970-71 Queensland exported 7,250,000 tons of coal. The royalties were at the rate of 5c a ton. The value of coal exported was $83,400,000m but the State gained from royalties the pittance of $362,000. Much the same situation exists with bauxite. Export production of bauxite in the same financial year was 6,500,000 tons which were valued at $37m, but the State gained from this export royalties amounting to the disgracefully small sum of $412,000. This could not do anything but indicate that the lack of confidence that I have expressed in these Queensland Ministers who handle the affairs of the State is well founded. 
Royalties as a percentage of the value of mineral production in Queensland is at the level of 1.1 per cent in comparison with Western Australia where the level is 4.6 per cent. I would like to quote from a table on Queensland royalties which has been supplied to me by the Legislative Research Service of the parliamentary Library. I seek the leave of the House to have this table on royalty revenue per head of population incorporated in Hansard. 
I am sure that it must have given the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  a great deal of pleasure this evening to listen to his offspring giving such an eloquent account of the way in which the Australian Post Office has handled its affairs. 
I meant his political offspring. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  criticised some of my colleagues who spoke previously in the debate. He suggested that the Department is really making progress and that the criticisms that have been made have been without foundation. As an illustration of the high costs of the services provided he said that it cost up to $10,000 for the installation of a single telephone service. These are all matters to which I should like to refer in some detail to show that, to begin with, while the Postmaster-General's Department may really be making progress, it is not making sufficient progress to keep up with the growth and development of the Australian community. I refer not to the high cost of the installation of telephones required in isolated areas but to telephones required in areas of growth on the outskirts of metropolitan areas particularly Brisbane and especially in my own electorate of Bowman. This year the annual report shows that the telecommunications section of the Post Office made a profit of about S71m. While this is very commendable it shows that the Post Office has a very suc cessful adjunct in its operations. But the problem is that this section of the Post Office has not been given the opportunity to expend the money that it should be expending to provide adequate services in its area of responsibility. I can speak only in the most complimentary way about the Post Office staff but I cannot say the same for the actual provision of services particularly in regard to telephone installations. 
I remind honourable members that telephone calls for last year, as disclosed in the annual report, earned a total of $387m for the Post Office. Surely a better deal could be given to those people who require a telephone than is being given at the present time. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  instanced this evening cases of people who are in dire need of a telephone and who have been denied a connection. People in metropolitan areas are being denied a telephone connection and they face a waiting period in some cases of up to 2 years. Recently in Brisbane - and whether this was as a result of my criticism of the lack of telephone services in certain areas of Brisbane or not I do not know, but certainly something prompted this comment - the Post Office through a spokesman, an unnamed spokesman of course as is usual in these cases, made an outstandingly ridiculous statement saying that the growing demand for more and more telephones in city and suburban areas had exceeded the resources of manpower, capital and material because Brisbane was going through a period of telephone mania. How ridiculous it is when today young people who build a home find that they are readily able to get, as they are entitled to expect, electricity and water but they cannot get a simple telephone installation which they require and which they should be entitled to have connected to their home just as they have available other essential services connected. 
The spokesman for the Post Office to whom I have referred talked about a total of 800 applicants in Brisbane on the deferred list. But I would refute the claim that there are only 800 deferred applications in Brisbane or the near suburban areas. I know of over 350 in my own electorate who have had to wait for over 12 months to have a telephone connected. There is a greater number who have waited for less than 12 months and a considerable number who have waited between 18 months and 2 years. There are approximately 700 applicants waiting in an area which includes my electorate and extends as far as Acacia Ridge, taking in sections of the Moreton, Oxley and Mcpherson electorates. There are 170 deferred applications of people facing a wait of 3 months to 6 months and about 380 applicants facing a wait of 18 months. This is in the Brisbane area. Earlier I received an indication from the Postmaster-General that he would agree to my request to incorporate in Hansard a table which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library Statistical Service setting out the number of telephone applications which have been received over the years. 

<graphic href="081131197210184_80_0.jpg"></graphic>

I will not refer in any great detail to this table but I should like to make reference to the fact that the table covers the last 5 years and sets out the estimated demand and total number of applications received In each of 'those 5 years. The situation generally in Queensland is quite a sorry condemnation of a position that has been allowed to deteriorate over the 5 years with the exception of the 1969-70 financial year. The variation in demand over estimate in Queensland exceeded the national average except in 1969-70. In 1970-71 Queensland had a figure of 10.6 per cent representing the variation of actual demand for telephones over the estimates prepared for that year. The national average at that time was 4.1 per cent. This year the situation is far worse. The figure is 13.5 per cent for Queensland and the national average is 5.4 per cent. In Victoria over the same period there has been a steady decline in the variation of actual demand over the estimates prepared for each year. So in effect the problem has been tackled in Victoria and very creditably has been overcome to a great extent. For the 1968-69 financial year Victoria had an 11.8 per cent variation with a national average at 7.4 per cent. As I said, the problem has been realistically tackled in that State but this has not been done in Queensland according to the figures set out in this table and in the light of actual cases which, tragically, had been referred to me and which I had to put to the people in the Post Office which rejected them. The variation in Victoria has dropped from 11.8 per cent to only 1.8 per cent in the last financial year compared with a national average of 5.4 per cent. 
I implore the Postmaster-General while he still has an opportunity in the remaining couple of months in which he is in charge of his Department to take immediate action in an endeavour to overcome the serious backlog of telephones in Queensland as is indicated in the figures I have given, particularly in those areas where there is obviously no room for the excuse that exchange facilities or trunk lines need to be installed. I have had very reliable communications stating that without this sort of hold-up in the Brisbane area there are in excess of 200 applications which have been deferred because of the unavailability of labour to carry out the job or the unavailability of handsets or simple equipment. I am informed that 200 people cannot get a telephone because the Post Office either does not offer adequate wages or employment conditions which are necessary to attract people into employment or does not carry sufficient stocks of equipment to enable it to do the job. 
 In considering the estimates of the Department of Shipping and Transport this evening I want to confine my remarks to the shipbuilding industry and, in particular, to the current situation at the Evans Deakin &amp; Co. Pty Ltd shipyard in Brisbane. I refer initially to discussions that I and several of my colleagues from this side of the 
House and from the Senate had some weeks ago with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He was good enough, on short notice, to give us the opportunity to discuss with him the current situation at Evans Deakin. I remind the Committee that at that time some 1,500 skilled shipyard workers were facing the possibility of dismissal if an almost immediate decision in regard to a new order for the Evans Deakin shipyard was not forthcoming. The Minister asserted that he had not been made aware of the problems Evans Deakin was facing until a short time before we interviewed him and because of that he was not in the position to take any earlier action to see whether a guarantee of work could be provided for the shipyard. 
The Minister gave us a firm understanding that he had been doing all he could possibly do to overcome the problem of the shipyard and he clearly indicated to us that he had not been aware of this problem over the long period of time that we suggested he should have been aware of it. Since that time, following a question that 1 asked in the House regarding some guarantees towards the continuation of employment for these men at the Evans Deakin shipyard, the Minister nas been able to give me an indication that in his understanding of the situation the problem has largely been overcome and the continuity of employment will almost certainly be guaranteed for the men. I have had an opportunity to discuss this matter in recent days with the management of Evans Deakin and I understand that the dismissal of the men is now most unlikely. It was explained to me that this is due to a natural wastage of men or a loss of men going to other jobs for various reasons. The main reasons for this problem being virtually overcome at this stage are the fact that the  'Sir Roderick  Miller' is due to be launched soon and there are no other orders in hand, and the earnest efforts by the Evans Deakin management to place the men in other sections of their general engineering activities as the ship completion date approaches. I certainly must compliment the management on this decision and also compliment the industrial unions for the great restraint they have shown while this threat has been hanging over their heads. The situation has been resolved but I suggest to the House that it was not resolved because of any action that the Minister or the Government took to overcome the problems of the Evans Deakin shipyard. The head in the sand attitude that the Government has adopted for many years now, particularly in respect to the Evans Deakin shipyard, but generally in respect of continuity of work in the short term and the long term for shipyards in Australia, is still being adopted. 
I utterly and entirely refute the assertion by the Minister that he was not aware of this problem. If he was not aware of the problem throughout at least the last 9 months, he certainly should have been aware of it. It was not the fault of the Evans Deakin management that he was not aware of it. It was either his own fault or the fault of his Department for not making him aware of representations that had been made, and of approaches personally to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Certainly he must have been aware of the discussions that he himself had with the management and the  chairman  of directors of Evans Deakin and others involved at the time of the launching of the 'Esso Gippsland' earlier this year at the Evans Deakin shipyard. I cannot cite the details of the contacts that Evans Deakin has had with the Government, but I certainly have it on the most reliable authority that contact has been made and that no effort was spared by the management to make the Government aware of the impending crisis that the Evans Deakin shipyard faced. For reasons best know to the Minister and the Government, they chose to ignore these warnings. They chose to ignore the details of the impending crisis that were given to them in a conversation following the speech that the  chairman  of directors made at the launching of the Esso Gippsland' in April this year. 
I also want to mention - perhaps the Minister can explain this to me - that I raised soon after the Budget session commenced in August the question of the suggestion of the acceptance of a tender from a Japanese shipyard for the construction of a ship to be used in the Australian export trade. I asked whether special action could be taken, in view of the problem that was being faced by the Evans Deakin shipyard, to secure this order for Evans Deakin rather than allow it to go to the Japanese shipyard. The order, of course, has since been confirmed and the ship will be constructed at the Japanese yard. When I raised with the Minister, not just on one occasion but also in a speech in the House and subsequently as a member of the delegation of honourable members from this side of the House which called on him, the question why some arrangements could not have been made for this ship to be constructed in Austrafia, particular emphasis being put on the construction of the ship at the Evans Deakin shipyard, the Minister indicated to me that, as much as he might like to do something in this matter, his hands were tied by the fact that Australia was restricted in making subsidy payment on ships constructed for overseas trading by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreement to which Australia was a signatory. He suggested that this agreement placed the Government in a position where it was not able to subsidise the construction of ships for overseas trading. 
I have had this matter thoroughly checked and on the most reliable information I can get I understand that there is certainly some agreement which restricts us in some ways but that there is definitely no agreement between OECD members regarding shipping practices and credit terms available to buyers of ships to which Australia is committed. Australia has acceded to a formal OECD understanding regarding credit terms available to buyers of ships but this has nothing whatever to do with construction subsidies. Similarly, in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade there is nothing which could restrict the Government in making a decision to subsidise the construction of ships such as the one in respect of which the contract has recently been let to a Japanese shipyard. This is a continuation of the head in the sand attitude of the Government. Ever since it took office it has regarded shipbuilding in Australia as a necessary evil rather than as an essential and vital Australian industry whose development should be encouraged. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This evening I wish to raise a matter that has been referred to me in recent days by the father of a young man who has been caught up in the vicious provisions of the National Service Act. He asked me to raise this matter because of its urgency andso that a decision could be made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  with some haste. The situation is rather typical of what probably many young men are facing today who have recently passed their medical examinations and who have been called up to report for Army duty at the end of January. This young man, who is 21 years of age, is just about to sit for his final examinations at the University of Queensland to qualify as a chemical engineer. He will complete these examinations at the end of November. He is in a class of 30 young men who will graduate this year and, for various reasons, is the only one who will face the provisions of the National Service Act. The others are either exempt or excused on medical grounds. 
The professor at the university has advised the class that 20 of the young men will find no difficulty in being placed readily in their profession but that 10 of them may face some period of waiting while they organise jobs for themselves. The situation is that this young fellow, who has been educated on a Commonwealth scholarship - the Commonwealth has contributed thousands of dollars towards his education while he has been at secondary school and at the university - for the next couple of months will face the problem that he cannot even apply for a position in his profession.  His  father will have to keep him for those 2 months until he is due to go into the Army at the end of January. A further problem that he faces is that his son will come out in the middle of the year after having served his 18 months in national service training and will face competition at the end of the year, if he has not been able to secure a position beforehand which would be most unlikely, from 2 classes of graduates - the number unknown - who would follow him from the Queensland University. He will be 2 years behind every one of the 29 men who graduated with him. The burden that is thrust upon him by the provisions of the National Service Act indicates that the Act is unjust and discriminatory in the worst possible way. At the end of the 2 years he will have to face the problem of seeking a future for himself in his chosen profession. He will not only have to secure a job but also secure a job in the profession that he has been away from for 2 years and against competition from up to 60 men who graduated in the 2 years he was away from university. 
It is quite obvious that this young man who has been educated under Commonwealth scholarships and in whose future success the Commonwealth has an investment, will perhaps be in a position where his future will be ruined almost before he is given an opportunity to enter his profession, simply because of the provisions of this disgraceful: and obnoxious National Service Act. What will happen to him during the 18 months of his service? If he is lucky he will find himself serving in an officers' mess. More likely he will find himself gardening at Ennogera Barracks or doing storeman's work. While I do not wish to reflect on the men in the Services who carry out these duties, I am critical of a system which forces a man of this capacity to carry out these duties when he is qualified in the profession which he has chosen. Under the provisions of the National Service Act and because of the stupidity of this Government, he finds that if he had qualified as a teacher or a doctor he could have applied for exemption or time in which to gain experience in his profession, but because he is not in either of those professions this man has been told by the national service office in Brisbane that there is no provision under which he can seek deferment to gain experience in his profession. He is just caught up in the system. He must face the National Service Act provisions and go into the Army at the end of January. May I say again that the career of this lad could be ruined for all time because of the crazy provisions of the National Service Act. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  refers to what we hear about totalitarian countries such as Russia. Surely in no other country could we find a more ridiculous situation than the one which this lad faces. As I said in my opening remarks, I mention this matter at the request of this lad's father who has suggested to me also that he knows of one other similar case involving a young man who qualifies this year as a mechanical engineer. Probably there are countless dozens of such cases of young men throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. The Minister for Labour and National Service when I spoke to him earlier told me that it would be diffifficul for him to come into the House tonight but that he would listen to my remarks. 1 ask him now formally and officially to show some compassion in this case, to give serious consideration to the persona] problem that this young fellow faces and to grant him total exemption from the provision of the National Service Act. 
This evening, in considering these estimates, I shall confine my remarks to the Repatriation Department. Briefly I shall refer to some of the remarks made by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  I note that he has returned to the back benches to try them out for size and to offer some words of gratitude to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who was very high in his praise of the Minister when he made his remarks earlier this evening. I might say that the honourable member is way off when he talks in such terms of the current Minister, because it is my understanding that the present Minister for Repatriation cannot claim any praise for his handling of the rights and benefits of ex-servicemen. To my knowledge the only Liberal Minister who bas held the Repatriation portfolio and who has ever been entitled to receive or who did receive any praise, was a gentleman who came not from this chamber but from the Senate. I refer to  Senator Sir Walter  Cooper. The Minister said this evening that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Barnard) has asked him only 2 questions. I think honourable members will readily appreciate the reason why the  Deputy  Leader would stop at 2 questions and not seek any further information from the Minister. Anybody who has heard him attempt to answer a question would know that it is useless to ask him for any information regarding his Department. He gets himself so hopelessly tied up because of his inefficiency, when he tries to answer a question that it is not worth while even attempting to seek information from him. Honourable members certainly will recall only in the last couple of days the attempts the Minister made to explain away the injustice of taking from the wives of TPI pensioners the pensioner medical service entitlement card, and how much deeper in the mire he was by the time he finished his explanation than he would have been if he had not attempted to say anything about the matter. 
I should like to refer to something which was briefly touched on by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition this evening. Tt is a section of Labor's policy which will be put into effect very soon after the next election. Part of our policy on repatriation states: 
Free medical and hospital treatment for all ex-servicemen of the Boer War and the First World War will be implemented in the first year of a Labor Government. The ultimate objective will be to grant free medical and hospital treatment to all ex-servicemen. 
To indicate the concern of the Minister and his Department for this very important benefit to ex-servicemen, I refer to a question I placed on notice to the Minister on 29th February this year. It reads:  &lt;1) What is the estimated number of (a) Boer War and (b) World War I veterans who are still living. 
What is the estimated cost of providing Repatriation Hospital treatment to any of these veterans who are now, or may become in the future, ill or disabled, whether their medical condition is war caused or not. 
Can he say whether it is the policy of the United States Government to provide all war veterans, including those who served in Vietnam, free treatment in their military hospitals without regard to whether their illness or disability was war caused or not. 
The significance of the third part of my question is, I am sure, understandable to honourable members because so often in this place we hear that honourable members on the other side of the House set their standards on what America does in regard to its war effort and anything associated with international matters. I felt it was fitting that I should link the standard in that country to the standard that exists in Australia. The answer given by the Minister, after some considerable delay, on 12th September, stated that at that time fewer than 200 Boer War veterans were living and the number of World War I veterans who were living was estimated to be 66,700. In respect of those who are not currently eligible for benefits in repatriation hospitals the Minister stated that the estimated cost of providing ex-servicemen with these benefits - I repeat that this is Labor Party policy - was the very small amount of $3.73m per annum. Surely that amount of money could very easily be found by the Government when one considers the wastage of expenditure that this Government is prepared to sanction in waging war. But it is not prepared to expend this very small amount each year to look after the war veterans who have served this country well. 
There is no after sales service; there is no interest in veterans after they return. The constant attitude of the Department, as I see it and as I am sure other honourable members on this side of the House see it, is to deny benefit to exservicemen. There is a section of the Repatriation Act which states that the onus of proof must not lie on the appellant and that any benefit of the doubt shall be given to the appellant. How many honourable members have seen that put into effect in accordance with the intention of the Act? To my knowledge it happens only very, very occasionally. The reverse is the general rule. 
I think it is very important to consider the answer I received to the third part of my question because it shows how paltry the attitude of this Government is in comparison with that of the American administration. Under current legislation the American administration is authorised to furnish hospital care to veterans who served in the armed forces and were discharged under other than dishonourable conditions. Veterans having service connected disabilities are accorded priority for admission. Veterans without service connected disabilities and under 65 years of age who had honourable service during a war period or since 31st January 1955 are eligible for necessary admission provided a bed is available and they indicate their inability to defray the expenses of hospital care in a community hospital. The administration also is authorised to provide hospital care for a non-service connected disability of any veteran - I repeat, any veteran - who is 65 years of age or older without regard to his ability to defray hospital expenses. Of course, Australian ex-servicemen need not fear - the days of this Government are numbered. 
I know. It's time. Exservicemen can expect that very early in the first year of the Labor government the Australian Labor Party policy will be put into effect in order to give them the benefits that they are currently denied. 
I want to make a short reference to the failure of the Minister for Repatriation to answer a question that I put on notice on 13th September. If there was no embarrassment to the Minister it could have been answered within days. I asked the Minister: 
Is it a fact that at Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital in Brisbane (a) there are at least  1  complete wards closed due to their being surplus to current requirements and (b) patients who arc diagnosed incurable or chronically ill are not permitted to remain. 
I know that they are not allowed to remain there after a short period, but I wanted the Minister to at least give me that answer officially. The next part of my question was: 
What repatriation hospital facilities are available in Brisbane for the care of incurable or chronically ill patients. 
I can probably also answer that question for the Minister if he is not prepared to go on record. The answer is a small Anzac annexe at Rosemount Repatriation Hospital that contains about 25 beds at the most. I also asked the Minister: 
What repatriation hospital facilities are available for incurable or chronically ill patients in each State and Territory. 
So far I have received no answer to those questions. My understanding is that there are certain facilities available in Sydney, New South Wales, but to my knowledge that is the extent of the interest that the Minister and his Department show in these poor unfortunate people who are cast out of repatriation hospitals once it is decided that they are chronically or incurably ill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many applications have been (a) received (b) approved and (c) rejected in each financial year in each State and Territory since the introduction of the Home Savings Grant Scheme in 1964. 
What sum has been paid under the Scheme in each financial year in each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did he state in a Press statement on 10th July 1970, following a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in Port Moresby, that minimum safety inspection standards will be drawn up for long distance buses operating throughout Australia. 
If so, have those standards been adopted and enforced: if not, when is it expected that they will be. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided to re-site the Brisbane Airport in accordance with the siting and general recommendations of the Advisory Committee's report, proposal 'Q 
If so, when will the proposal for site works be considered by the Public Works Committee. 
Will the Minister ensure that the existing noise problem in sections of the Electoral Division of Bowman, particularly in the LindumWynnumManly area, is in no way aggravated. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
In the Tentative Uniform Home Building Code prepared by his Department and published in April 1970 for the Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations, did the Secretary of his Department stress that adoption of the minimum standards by major institutional lenders for housing throughout Australia was important to achieve a worthwhile reduction, In the cost of home building. 
Which local authorities and lending organisations have accepted the tentative code to date. 
When will a uniform building code  be  adopted and enforced. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What Repatriation, hospital facilities are available for incurable or chronically ill patients in each State and Territory? 
I also wish to associate myself with the remarks that have been made in this chamber in relation to the death of former members of the House and, in particular, to associate myself with the remarks that have been made in regard to the passing of the late member for the Queensland electorate of Kennedy, the Honourable W. J. F. Riordan. I knew Bill Riordan only in the last few years of his life, having had the honour to represent him in this Parliament from 1969. He lived in the town of Cleveland in my electorate of Bowman. As I knew him only in those latter years of his life, I cannot speak with any personal knowledge of his parliamentary career, save to say that I know from the remarks that have often been passed about Bill Riordan and from the questions that I have often been asked by members of this House who served with him that he was held in the highest regard by political friend and foe alike. 
In the later years of his life, Bill Riordan was very active in many community organisations in Cleveland. He was associated with the Redlands Agricultural, Horticultural and Industrial Society and served on its council. He was an active member of the Cleveland Bowls Club. He was patron and a foundation member of the organising body of a well known aged persons' home in the area, namely the Lake Allawah Home for the Aged. I am sure that members of this Parliament, particularly on this side of the House, who knew Bill during his political career, will be pleased to know that he retained an active association with the Australian Labor Party in the area in which he lived, almost up to the time of his death. I saw him some 6 weeks before his death. At that stage he was struggling to overcome the effects of a stroke which he had suffered earlier in the year. It was somewhat pitiful to endeavour to speak to a man about matters that he was interested in - subjects in the political arena - knowing that, while he understood what was being said to him, the heavy toll that that stroke had taken of his health meant that he was barely able to answer. 
Bill Riordan's early retirement from this Parliament was contributed to, I am sure, by the heavy toll that the 30 years of representation of the vast electorate of Kennedy took on his life. The heavy toll on his capacity to continue any longer was such that on medical advice he retired at a very early age. His death followed some 6 years later. He retired when 58 years of age. This is an age at which members of this House very seldom would look to retirement. I am sure that any member of this Parliament who is married will be willing to admit to the important role that his wife plays in the success of his political career. I am sure that those honourable members who knew Bill Riordan will readily understand my linking his wife Kath with the success of his political career. 
My first knowledge of Kath Riordan came soon after I was endorsed as the Labor candidate for the electorate of Bowman. I met her at the Cleveland Showground when a large gathering was there. She was wearing her usual large hat, and she swept me off and introduced me to everybody within 5 to 10 minutes of my arrival there. But the very close role that Kath played in Bill's life contributed again to some extent to the shortness of his life. She was tragically taken from him some 2 years before his death and, although many predicted that Bill would not last long after this, he had the capacity to draw himself up and regain his interest in life to a much greater extent than his friends ever felt that he would be able to do. But the rigours of the 30 years of effective and efficient representation that I believed he gave the electorate of Kennedy at last took its toll on his health and on 15th January he succumbed to a second stroke and peacefully passed away from this life in the Princess Alexandra Hospital, South Brisbane. In my final remarks I remind honourable members, as Bill often proudly told me, that he met his wife when he was introduced to her by the man who represented Melbourne until the last election, the right honourable Arthur Calwell. I understand that Arthur Calwell was a close, lifelong friend of Bill's and was best man at his wedding. I support the remarks that have been made and extend my particular condolence to Bill's sisters, the 2 remaining members of his family, especially to Nancy Riordan who I understand now will be living in Junee with her sister. Nancy, of course, was also very closely linked with Bill's political career, being his secretary for a large part of that time. 
The remarks made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  who preceded me in this debate were fairly typical of the thinking that caused the defeat of the Liberal Government.  His  approach gives a fair indication that unless honourable members opposite change their style of thinking they will spend many years on that side of the House. In his efforts to criticise the actions of this Government the honourable member failed to give us some reasons as to why he may have decided to change his tune about revaluation. He was. one of its foremost advocates in the last Parliament. I believe that he has decided to get on side with his Leader and change his attitude or to submerge his opinions in silence. This evening he did not mention this matter. He made a valiant effort to lay claim in this Parliament to the mantle left behind by one whom I am sure the great majority of members were pleased to see depart this Parliament. I refer to the previous honourable member for Lilley, Kevin Cairns. I am pleased to have here on my left this evening the new and very fitting honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  who has replaced Kevin Cairns in this Parliament. May I tell the honourable member for Balaclava that I am afraid that the present honourable member for Lilley will never make another Kevin Cairns - thank goodness. 
Tonight I am very pleased to congratulate the Governor-General on the fine speech that he made at the opening of Parliament yesterday. The remarks made by my colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  earlier this evening gave a pretty fair indication of the comparison between the Governor-General's Speech on this occasion and his speeches on the other 2 occasions on which I had the privilege to listen to him. I am sure that on the 2 previous occasions, particularly the first one, when we were hardly in the chamber long enough to know that the Speech had begun before it finished, he must have felt ashamed at the record of proposals that the Government had placed before him to present to the Parliament. He almost certainly would have had some thought in his mind as to how much more efficiently and effectively he could have been performing the role of Prime Minister in the Parliament than either of the 2 right honourable gentlemen who were called upon by the Liberal Party to perform that job. Of course, those 2 gentlemen have now met their fate, and the people have elected to government a party that will present to them new horizons, aims and ideals. I am very proud to say that a large proportion of the people of Australia, whether they have supported all the decisions that the Government has made since the election or whether they have not, at least have been singularly high in their praise of the Government for at least making decisions and of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for at least acting as a Prime Minister should. The people of Australia have been pleased to see a Prime Minister prepared to make decisions, the people having become used to the indecision of the previous Prime Minister during his fortunately short term in office. 
Let me further say that I congratulate the Prime Minister on many of the changes that he has proposed. There is one change that I suggest he might very carefully consider before the next Parliament,, the , 29th Parliament, meets. I suggest we should , discard the unnecessary pomp and ceremony that I am sure there was no need for here yesterday, with members for most of the day wandering backwards and fowards across red carpets and going into the Parliamentary Library to shake hands with the Governor-General who I am sure had no more idea , of what it was all about than did the members. One of my colleagues remarked to me as we moved across the red carpet on the third or fourth occasion: 'Surely if we do this much more some df the people in Kings Hall will start to throw peanuts at us'. I am sure that if that had happened it would have been with some just cause. I believe that in this day and age, with the new approaches that this Government will bring to running this nation, there is certainly no need for a continuation of the type of ceremony in which we were all forced to participate yesterday. 
One of the important matters that the Government has so far proposed to the Parliament is the extension of the franchise to 18- year olds, whom we now recognise in Aus.trali aas people entitled to accept the responsibilities of adulthood. Granting voting rights to these people was something that the previous government at various times, when challenged by the Labor Party in opposition to take action, mouthed support for, but that Government was never prepared to take forthright action to introduce this very necessary electoral reform. Certain other electoral reforms have been proposed and will in time be introduced by my colleague, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I sincerely look forward, and I am sure a great percentage of the Australian people do, to the introduction of a true sense of democracy into the voting procedures of this country so that we will accept the principle of 'one vote one value'. 
For too long this Parliament has had inflicted upon it the undue influence of the Country Party, out of all proportion to the electoral support that it is receiving. Sadly, I have seen examples of this only too clearly. I am sure that if the former honourable member for McPherson were in the chamber this evening he would be applauding me for my remarks. He, as a fellow Queenslander, in recent times has certainly expressed his opinion on the 18th century attitude that the Country Party Government in Queensland has adopted to many matters, including the relocation of the Torres Strait border between Australia and New Guinea, to which I will take the opportunity to refer again later during my remarks this evening. The point I want to make at the moment is that in Queensland today the people have inflicted upon them a Country Party Premier and a Country Party Government who cannot gain even 20 per cent of electoral popularity throughout the State. With only 19 per cent of the vote in Queensland, the Country Party holds a major share of power in the coalition Government. Is it any wonder that the Liberal  Deputy  Premier and Treasurer of Queens and,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, has been outspoken in his criticism of the attitude that the Country Party Premier has expressed towards the decisions of the present Commonwealth Government? As someone remarked to me recently: 'China has its Chou En-lai; Queensland has its Lying' Joh'. That is probably a disturbing suggestion, but it is quite obvious that although this gentleman seeks to present a religious image to the people, no greater hypocrite has ever sat in the Queensland Parliament or, to my knowledge, ever controlled a political party in Australia. 
 Mr Speaker,  in deference to your ruling, I withdraw my very apt description of the Queensland Premier. 
I withdraw my description of the Queensland Premier as a hypocrite. 
He certainly is indescribable. I am certain that there are members of the Liberal Party in this Parliament who feel the same as I do about the Premier of Queensland and the influence of the Country Party. They fully realise that they should accept the challenge that the Labor Party will extend to them to bring democracy into the electoral procedures of this nation and accept the challenge of supporting a system of electoral reform that will give voters in the cities a vote of the same value as the vote of people who live in some other parts of this nation. They realise that not until they do so will they be free of the influence of the Country Party. Forever will they sit in this place in Opposition wishing that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was in fact able to claim the title of the second most important man in Opposition. Instead of asserting his right to that claim they will sit in their seats squirming while the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  rises to his feet and presents himself to the Parliament as the person accepting the title, to which I believe he is not entitled to lay claim, of the second most important member of the Opposition. 
We on this side of the House who were honoured to be members of the last Parliament know full well that the opportunity was taken by the people of Australia on the occasion of the last election to cast out the Liberal-Country Party coalition and to elect the Labor Party into office after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule despite the gutter tactics that were used and despite the lies of the previous government and particularly those of the Democratic Labor Party. I can say that in Queensland the fear and smear campaigns of the enemies of Labor during the last election did not succeed. Never again will they succeed with such tactics because in the coming 3 years that this Government will be in office the people of Australia, including a new generation of Australians, will have an opportunity to judge the Australian Labor Party on its record and performances as the national Government. They will have an opportunity to judge the Labor Government on the reforms that it will introduce during its 3 years in office, many of which were outlined in the Governor-General's Speech yesterday. So, never again can the fear tactics of the parties that previously have depended on them for their return to office, rather than depending upon the presentation of progressive policies for election to office, be used to the detriment of the Labor Party and to the disadvantage of the country as a whole. 
I hope that when the proposed electoral reforms are introduced into this Parliament, and when one-vote one-value is an accomplished fact, there might be some opportunity for the Government to use its influence on those discredited State governments that depend upon the gerrymander for their own continuation in office. I refer particularly to the disgraceful gerrymander that has returned the Country-Liberal coalition to office in Queensland. Without getting on to the rights or wrongs of a change in the boundary between Queensland and Papua New Guinea, I want to make one point on this issue this evening, and I am sure that those who have looked closely at the situation will agree with the point that I make. I have no doubt that the Premier of Queensland has not been concerned or interested in the location of the boundary because of a concern for the lives, the livelihood or the future nationality of any people who may live on the islands affected. He is concerned rather for the future success of the shares that he holds in the companies that he hopes to give an opportunity to drill for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. These plans currently are held in abeyance. Some of the titles that are to be made available by the Queensland Government to these companies are locked in the safe of the Minister for Mines and are waiting there for the greedy hand of the Queensland Premier to descend on the Torres Strait and Barrier Reef oil fields, as it has done in many previous instances, mainly through the nominee companies in which he holds an interest that can never be tracked down. 
I shall leave the Queensland Premier alone for a moment and refer to one other matter which has been given some attention in Queensland in recent times and which concerns the incapacity of the- University of Queensland to cope with the -numbers of students who are presenting themselves for enrolment in courses at that university. I compliment the Government on the action it has taken in relation to the abolition of university fees from the start of the 1974 academic year. I also compliment the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on the very progressive move he has made to alleviate the burdens and hardships carried by many students by making special grants to the various States. However, in Queensland this year more than 40 students at the University of Queensland who have passed the first year of their medical course will not be allowed to go on to the second year because of a severe, restrictive quota system. 
The system that exists in the University of Queensland is due . in no small measure to the attitude of the Queensland Government in the past towards providing finance for the expansion of the University of Queensland and to the attitude of the past Federal governments, which continually refused to provide finance for university development except on the basis of matching grants. I believe that the situation has been reached in . Queensland, particularly in respect of the development of the new university at Mount Gravatt, where action is needed. I hope that this Government will be influenced into granting finance for the development of this university to overcome some of the current problems in regard to enrolments at the University of Queensland and that this (finance will not be on a matching dollar for dollar basis. This is one of the sins of omission of the previous Government that this Government will have to face. It is one of the important matters that should be, and I trust will be, faced quickly because there is a growing shortage of doctors in Queensland which has necessitated the Queensland Government advertising in other States for young doctors to come to Queensland because facilities cannot be provided for Queensland to train its own doctors in its own university. 
In conclusion I should like to say that there is no doubt that the people of Australia on this occasion have made a decision which, on previous occasions, they have endeavoured to make but have failed to make because of the distribution of preferences from minority groups, particularly the Democratic Labor Party. I believe that the election of this Government will see the speedy end of the DLP which has grown and lived on hatred and bitterness towards the Party that is now in office - hatred and bitterness which I hope can no longer continue. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the undertaking given in his policy speech that a Labor government would immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what grants in the present financial year were required for their programmes. Will the Prime Minister say what action the Government has taken in view of the urgency of this need, particularly in regard to the Greater Brisbane area which is now in the vicinity of 95 per cent sewered, and will soon be past the need of such assistance? 
This afternoon we have been treated to yet another example of Liberal Party hypocrisy: I have sat in this Parliament for 3 years and on many occasions I have seen the former Opposition propose a measure such as the one we are discussing this afternoon. I must say in fairness to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  that his sympathy is in keeping with the terms of this Bill. In fact he and several of his colleagues are probably greatly relieved to see the responsibility taken by this Government to introduce legislation to lower the voting age to 18. This afternoon the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  closed his address on the Bill by saying that the Opposition agrees that the time has arrived when 18-year-olds should be given the right to vote and it supports the Bill. Surely he must have had his tongue in his cheek. 
Honourable members on this side of the House who had the fortune to be here in the dying days of almost a quarter of a century of Liberal-Country Party administration will recall the futile efforts made on many occasions by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition during the last Parliament to force the then Government to agree to lowering the voting age. Successive Ministers for the Interior answering the requests made in this House by the Australian Labor Party always followed their unconvincingly expressed sympathy to the proposal by the ultra conservative approach which could be summed up as: Yes, we agree; but not yet.' Even as late as the occasion when the parties were delivering their policy presentations to the electorate prior to the election held on 2nd December last the Australian Country Party failed to permit the Liberal Prime Minister to include in his policy a definite undertaking to lower the voting age for Federal elections. This was a very definite indication that should the Australian people have been cursed by another 3 years of that style of government nothing would have happened during the life of this Parliament just as certainly as we now know that nothing eventuated in the life of the last Parliament. 
The fact that this Parliament is today considering the extension of the franchise to 18- year-olds is due to the decision of the Australian people to accept the Labor Party's proposition at the time of the last election that 'It's Time.' It surely was time. It was time for a new approach to many responsibilities of government, and this is certainly one of them. I congratulate the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for bringing this measure before us for consideration so soon in the life of the Parliament. As was to be expected, in his policy speech, the Prime Minister gave a clear undertaking on behalf of the Labor Party when he said: 
We will give the vote to men and women at 18 years of age, as is already done in all other federal systems and most English-speaking countries. 
In presenting his second reading speech to the House the Minister provided a table for 'he consideration of honourable members. It is now included in Hansard. The table shows some of the countries that have extended voting rights to citizens 18 years of age. This surely must mean that, in the eyes of the rest of the world, Australia has been dragging its feet to an extent that can no longer be permitted. The list contains names of countries not only that are insignificant in terms of major influence in our sphere of the world but also that lay claim to having a democratic form of government. Those countries have had such a provision in their electoral laws but that provision did not exist in the electoral laws for the election of Federal parliaments in this country. 
Reference was made today to the fact that once this measure is put into effect we will see an intrusion into our high schools of party political influence. Recently the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was reported by the Adelaide 'Advertiser', under the headline 'Country Party will woo young voter', to have said: 
The Country Party expects to form political branches in high schools and universities when the 18-year-old vote is introduced. 
He emphasised that the Party had to increase its appeal and sharpen its image with young voters. Certainly I cannot find any cause to disagree with that statement but, as my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  prompts me, that is certainly no different from the action that needs to be taken not only in relation to young voters but also in relation to older voters. The Leader of the Country Party went on to say: 
It seems to me that the bulk of the Australian people and the other political parties want the age reduced to 18. We must be realistic and accept that this is going to happen. 
What more reluctant acceptance could one find than that? Even as late as the last Federal election this influence prevented the Liberal Party from throwing out the bait to the electorate that it surely would have wished to throw out to match the promise that had been made by the Labor Party. 
Let me remind honourable members once again that today this House is considering a measure which for years the previous Government had the opportunity to put into effect. For years the previous Government refused to accept the responsibility to put it into effect. The Labor Party has no intention of setting up branches in high schools. We certainly will encourage the political enlightenment of our young people, whether they are eligible to vote or simply approaching that eligibility. 
I refer now to a survey which was conducted approximately 18 months ago in a neighbouring electorate of mine, namely, the electorate of Griffith. If the previous Government had grasped the nettle and had taken the progressive step of reducing the voting age to 18 years, the electorate of Griffith 
Would have been represented much more capably in the Twenty-eighth Parliament than it is. The survey was conducted of 5,321 high school pupils in that electorate. The question they were asked was: 'At what age would you prefer to start voting - 18, 19, 20, 21, any other?' Of the 5,321 students 72.5 per cent indicated that they would prefer to see permission to vote granted to 18-year-olds. The next highest percentage - 18 per cent - indicated a preference for the voting age to remain at 21 years. The total percentage which indicated a preference for the lowering of the voting age than for it to remain at 21 years was over 80 per cent. By the next election the vote for 18-year-olds will be an accomplished fact. I have no doubt that the addition of votes of 18-year-olds in the electorate of Griffith will bring about a significant change in the result of that electorate, as I expect that there will be significant changes in the results in many other electorates. The young people who will be given the franchise by this Government certainly will take the opportunity to show their gratitude to the Labor Party for being prepared to accept the responsibility which the previous Government was not prepared to accept. I remind the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that the previous Government had the opportunity to introduce legislation such as this. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to an article in this morning's Brisbane 'CourierMail' which again raises the hardy old rumour of the impending closure of the Evans Deakin shipyard at Kangaroo Point. Will the Minister affirm the Government's policy to ensure the long term stability of the Australian shipbuilding industry and also assure honourable members that the Government will do  an  within its power to guarantee immediate continuity of work at the Evans Deakin shipyard, contrary to the attitude of the last Government, which failed to do this? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. 1 preface my question by saying that, in answer to my question in the House last Wednesday,  the Minister  gave assurances in regard to the immediate and long term continuity of work for Evans Deakin Industries Ltd shipyards. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the announcement yesterday by  Mr L.  Knevitt that the Evans Deakin shipyard will close in August? In the event of this grave decision being irretrievable, can the Minister assure the House that this Government has done everything possible to prevent the closure occurring? In view of  Mr Knevitt's  announcement, will the Government give consideration to negotiating with the Queensland Government and Evans Deakin, if the company is interested, with a view to establishing a joint venture to allow the industry to continue, preferably at the proposed new and ideally suitable location of Fisherman's Island at the mouth of the Brisbane River? 
The opening statement by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was an indication of the misstatements and distortions of fact he made right throughout his speech. He talked about the gallery, which at that time was almost full, being empty while an address was being made to this House by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  1 am sure that honourable members will have noticed how the gallery emptied while the honourable member for Griffith spoke. I would like to make him an offer. If he can get enough copies of that speech made I will take them down to the Evans Deakin shipyard and distribute them to all the employees there. I realise the honourable member does not know where the Evans Deakin shipyard is although it is in his electorate. 
The honourable member's accusation that the Government is not interested in the welfare of the workers at Evans Deakin shipyard is typical of the accusations he made during the last Parliament but, of course, then he was criticising his own Government. The headline in the 'Courier Mail' on 2nd May 1972 stated 'Support for shipbuilders lacking*. The article went on to say that the honourable member for Griffith had said the previous night that Government policy on the shipbuilding industry was not being applied. The article quoted the honourable member as saying that his inquiries indicated that the policy of the Government, which should have been directed towards developing the industry - he referred to the use of imported ships on the Australian coast - was not being strictly applied and that extensions of permission to use imported vessels were frequently granted. He knew then where the blame for the state of the shipbuilding industry in Australia truly lay. As the honourable member for Adelaide said earlier, it is truly remarkable that the Opposition had the colossal effrontery to propose such a subject for discussion in this House this afternoon. I certainly agree that this is a matter of public importance and with one small alteration to the wording of the subject proposed for discussion I could wholeheartedly agree with it. It is not the failure of this Government but the failure of past Liberal-Country Party governments oyer a long period of time to prevent the closure of major Australian shipyards which is the issue. 
The last Government failed throughout the disastrous 23 years it was in office to show any sense of appreciation of the vital need to develop the Australian shipbuilding industry. Not once during the long period the coalition governments were in office was the industry shown the slightest indication that it was anything more than an industry to be tolerated. Not once did the previous Government show the industry any degree of understanding of the need of shipyards to receive the style of leadership that the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is showing. The honourable member for Griffith quoted from a statement issued by  Mr Knevitt  of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd yesterday which said that his company was anxious for certain undertakings to be given by this Government so that consideration may be given te the reversal of the company's decision to close its yard. The statement suggested that the Federal Government legislate to provide a viable shipbuilding industry in Australia and stated that all unions engaged in shipbuilding, once assured of continuity of employment, would enter into an industrial agreement. 
These are the very things which the previous Government could have done but failed to do. They are the things which for many years members on this side of the Parliament, while in Opposition, urged the Government to put into effect. The headlines that we have seen in recent days referring to the pending closure of the Evans Deakin shipyard are not new headlines. They are headlines which have been repeated on many occasions over the last few years. I have with me several of these headlines. On 6th May 1972 there was the headline: 'If shipyard is shut "it will not reopen" '. This, according to the newspaper, was said by the company's  chairman  of directors,  Mr Hoare.  On 1st June the 'Brisbane Telegraph' said: 'Government plans may close shipyards'. Again in the 'Courier Mail' on 10th May was the headline: 'What's killing shipbuilding in Australia'. That report went on to say:   
Evans Deakin's Brisbane shipyard will have to close for good unless an early order is received, the company  Chairman (Mr J. H. Hoare)  said on Friday. 
On and on went the condemnation of the previous Government for the situation that has developed in the shipbuilding industry today. Another statement was made in August by the  chairman  of the Australian Shipbuilders Association,  Dr Hughes.  He said that shipbuilders throughout Australia were concerned at the Government's nonchalance. The 'Financial Review' on 21st September said: 
For the third time since the Government introduced its shipbuilding policy on May 31 - in a distinct departure from the terms of the Tariff Board's report on shipbuilding - the industry has again told the Government that it is completely dissatisfied with that policy. 
Of course, that referred not to the policy of this Government but to the policy of the previous Government, a policy which for many years had failed to show an appreciation of the needs of the Australian shipbuilding industry. I had occasion to work in the Evans Deakin shipyard some 20 years ago and the situation today is the same as it was then. Continuity of work was never available and, consequently, the men in the yard never knew from one week to the next where their future existence lay. Rather than being critical of the present Government, Evans Deakin has been high in its praise of the action which this Government has taken since coming to power on 2nd December. In the same statement from which I quoted previously,  Mr Knevitt  said: 
In the interests of Australian and Queensland industry, the company has tried to keep shipbuilding going - with a result over a lengthy period of a considerable cost to shareholders. Continuation of shipbuilding at a level similar to that experienced over the past, few years would inevitably lead to the collapse of the entire company. 
The Federal Government through the Minister for Transport, has quickly recognised the predicament of the shipbuilding industry. The Minister has been active in promoting ideas which in the very long term would lead to a viable industry. 

 Mr Knevitt went on to say, and this was referred to by a Government  speaker  earlier, that problems amongst the unions and stoppages have caused many of the problems resulting in the decision to close the Evans Deakin shipyard in August this year.  Mr Knevitt  very understandably said: 
Generally employees in an industry faced with closure tend to- 'string out' the final stages of  a  contract. This has- been a recurring problem  within  our shipyard previously and has been accentuated  in  the last 6 months. 
In the last. 6 months, not in the last 6 weeks. The actions of the previous Government created in all sections of the shipbuilding industry the uncertainty that exists today. Its failure to place orders and the uncertainty amongst management and workers at the various shipyards have naturally resulted in the companies not being prepared to outlay capital for the development of their yards. The previous Government Was grasping at straws because it could not develop positive policies. During its long term in office not once did it come forward with a semblance of a decent policy to secure economic development in the industry and to guarantee the future of this vital Australian industry. 
Today the Government is to be congratulated on the progress it has made towards the implementation of the policies it has determined in the short time that it has been in office. The Labor Government has already taken positive steps to inject new life into the shipbuilding industry and, given the opportunity, I am sure that the future of the shipbuilding industry in Brisbane will be guaranteed under this Government, if not at Kangaroo Point then certainly by the redevelopment of the shipyards - perhaps through a combination of Federal and State Government 
Interests, together with Evans Deakin if it is interested in assisting - at the new site of Fisherman's Island at the mouth of the Brisbane River which Evans Deakin has intended to develop. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
I desire firstly to refer to some of the points made by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who no doubt will recall that on a previous occasion I referred to his leader in the Queensland Parliament, the man who through acts of gerrymander and not through the decision of the electors is the Premier of Queensland today. I referred to him as the greatest living hypocrite in politics in Australia today. I take this opportunity to repeat that Queenslanders know how true that is. They showed their opinion of the Premier of Queensland last Saturday in the elections that were held in the Greater Brisbane area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! I would ask the honourable member to contain himself and adopt the normal usages of the House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  At the time those remarks were made there were quite a lot of interjections from the table. I would ask the honourable member to proceed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I call the honourable member for Bowman. 
I have not been asked to withdraw those remarks. Of course I have not; and why should I? I will accept the concern of members of the Australian Country Party for the type of man that leads their Party in Queensland. I intend to make some further remarks about the actions of this gentleman. During the second reading debate on the Bill several Opposition members suggested that because we wish to amend the Act to introduce a sense of justice into the redistri bution that is about to take place and to take away the heavy weighting in favour of the Country Party that has protected that Party and enabled it to send back to this Parliament members such as the honourable member for Kennedy.  (Mr Katter)  who would not be here otherwise- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I would ask the honourable member to desist. Unless he contains himself and refrains from interjecting I will have to name him. The honourable member will not receive another warning. 
I understand that the honourable member is offended when I refer to him as the honourable member for Kennedy because, of course, he seldom goes there. He spends most of his time at Kenmore. The second point I want to make is that the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said that the proposed legislation would cause redistributions to be conducted so frequently that they would be absurd and that perhaps a redistribution would be required in the life of every Parliament - a redistribution, in his words, 'before every election'. The right honourable member said that the legislation would cause gross instability of electorates and that there would be a serious lack of continuity of representation. It would be as well to remind the Leader of the Country Party as well as all honourable members that the Queensland Government, after deciding on a redistribution to take effect before the State elections in Queensland in  1972,  found, due to the comments of the State Secretary of the Labor Party, that a few mistakes had been made in some of the boundaries. When the State Secretary referred to some of the seats that obviously the Country Party intended to win and suggested that by the look of things these would be seats that the Labor Party would pick up although originally they were not expected to be Labor seats, the Premier of Queensland went back and adjusted the boundaries. He had a second chop and a second redistribution within about a month. Not satisfied with having a second go before the election, as some seats such as Albert and Redlands were finally won by the Labor Party in the subsequent election he has recently announced that the State Government is likely to consider a mini redistribution of boundaries of some electorates before the next Queensland election. Not satisfied with the job he did earlier of gerrymandering the electoral boundaries in Queensland he intends to have another go at redistribution before the next election. I think that gives the lie to the suggestion of Country Party members in this place that redistributions would be required too frequently under the proposed terms of clause 3 of the Bill. 
Of course, we know that there is not united condemnation of this suggestion by members of the Opposition. We know, in terms of the report which appeared in the Press last Friday, that the Liberals are split over these electoral reforms because some Liberals recognise the honesty and sincerity of the Labor Party in introducing these suggested changes to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said in this House during the course of the debate last week that he is not oversatisfied with the suggestion of a 10 per cent weighting of electoral enrolments. He is no more satisfied with the 20 per cent weighting. I cannot find the exact words used by the honourable member in the debate but he suggested that he could see some justification for a change, although he thought rather in terms of an alteration to 15 per cent. I suppose it is all a matter of opinion. In his opinion, 15 per cent would be satisfactory. 
I submit to honourable members that the ideal solution for this situation would be to give each electorate the same number of electors. We believe that that is not possible. We believe that it would not be practicable to provide even a 5 per cent weighting in variation of the various enrolments. But we certainly believe that we can effectively implement a fair system with a 10 per cent weighting of enrolments. Rather than criticise our intention to do this, if Country and Liberal Party members opposite had any sense of electoral justice and basic honesty in the redistribution that is about to be carried out, they would be prepared to say: 'The Labor Party says it can conduct a redistribution on the basis of a 10 per cent variation above or below the quota. We are prepared to let the Labor Party have a go at it and see if it can conduct an effective redistribution that will not require to be changed or adjusted before each election'. 
I refer once again to the State President of the Liberal Party and the remarks that he made about the last redistribution in Queensland. I am sure that his remarks on that redistribution would be a fair indication oi what he would think about suggestions in this House by Country Party members that things should be left as they are. He said: 
. if the Country Party's proposal ls adopted lt will mean 'electoral injustice at Country Party insistence'. . . . 
He said that at the time of the last redistribution in Queensland. The same applies to our attitude to the proposed amendments to this Electoral Bill that we are discussing. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
This evening I wish to bring to the attention of the House and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his capacity as Foreign Minister, a matter about which I have received a large number of communications in recent months. These communications deal with the imprisonment of 5 Young Christian Worker leaders in South Vietnam. Many of these communications were received prior to the recent election. I appreciate that there was little chance that the previous leadership-lacking Government would take action on the matter. I appreciate also that the Prime Minister might normally be reluctant to interfere with the internal affairs of another country. However, I believe that this matter goes beyond the cat egory of internal affairs and really should be judged in terms of international concern for inhuman treatment of man against his fellow man. 
The sequence of events which led up to the arrest in Saigon and subsequent imprisonment is as follows: On 30th April 1972 at about 2 a.m. the Saigon police searched the National Headquarters of the Young Christian Workers Movement and arrested all the young people who were there. Thirteen young workers and 5 national leaders of the YCW were arrested. On 1st May the National Chaplain went to the chief of police, who said that a boy who admitted to taking part in an attack on a police station had said that his 3 collaborators lived at the YCW house. The chief of police said that those who were not guilty would be released at once. On 3rd May the National Chaplain again asked the police for an explanation. The police said that they had found those who were guilty, but that some antigovernment tracts were found in the YCW house, although the author of these had not yet been discovered. The chief of police promised to settle the affair the same day. 
On 4th May further inquiries from the police brought the answer that the YCW leaders had been transferred to the central police of Saigon. The central police refused to give any information. On 5th May a telegram was sent to the international YCW to inform it of the situation. The telegram was not received. On 16th May the information reached the international office of the YCW. Since the arrest the police have refused permission for a visit by friends and other YCW members to those imprisoned. No charge has been made against them. At the time no-one knew where the prisoners were. On 7th August last year a letter was sent by the YCW leaders in Australia to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, requesting information on the imprisonment.  His  reply of 29th August confirmed the news. In reply he said: 
According to the information I have received, Nguyen Viet Tuan and 17 other youths were arrested on 1st May at the headquarters of the Catholic Worker Youth Movement, which was raided under martial law procedures on the grounds that an unauthorised meeting was being held. 
On the basis of documents found during the raid, 16 youths were charged with having been implicated in the lire bombing of a police station in the 2nd district of Saigon on the previous day, 30th April. 
The remaining 2 were released. Those charged are being held in Chi Hoa prison in Saigon and are believed to be in good health. 
Amnesty International - 
A movement formed to fight persecution and protect human rights - an organisation affiliated with the United Nations and concerned with the release of political prisoners . . . have taken up the case of one of the YCW members Nguyen Viet Tuan, as a 'prisoner of conscience'. 
I also understand that Amnesty groups in other countries have adopted the cases of the other 4 in the hope that our combined efforts . . . 
It was hoped that they might secure the release of these young people. (Quorum formed)  Mr Speaker,  it seems strange that members sitting to your left are not prepared to listen to an account of atrocities that are carried out in countries such as South Vietnam. It is only natural to expect that attitude from supporters of the Rhodesian regime. I was attempting to bring this matter to the attention of the House despite the concern of honourable members opposite that such matters are being aired in this Parliament. I will continue my remarks. The 4 people who were tried at the court martial on 18th November 1972 were Nguyen Viet Tuan, Nguyen Van Hau, Tran Chi Vien and Nguyen Van Ngoa. 
They were found guilty of being implicated in the fire bombing of a police station on 30th April 1972. Despite the verdict of not guilty, those 4 people are imprisoned on the island of Paulo Condor. Their health was so bad that they had to be carried on stretchers to the prison. A fifth member of the national team, Doan Xhao Xuyen who was held at Tan Kiap, was not tried with the others and was transferred without trial to Paulo Condor on 26th December. The nature of the atrocities that have been inflicted on these young people do not permit me to state them in detail. Might I say in reply to an earlier interjection that whilst my pronunciation may not have been perfect, I am sure that the names of the people will be correctly recorded in Hansard and that my pronunciation of the names will not detract from the fact that a true record has been made of the atrocities that have been perpetrated on these people. 
As I said earlier, interference in matters such as this normally might be unwise but I submit that in this matter we should consider the cause of democracy in South Vietnam, a cause for which over 450 young Australians sacrificed their lives and on which the Australian Government expended countless millions of dollars of this country's money. In the interests of the preservation of democracy, if it exists in that country today, and more so in the cause of humanity, I urge the Prime Minister and this Government clearly to express their grave concern for the outrageous injustices suffered by these 5 young people and to initiate every possible action to arrange with the South Vietnamese Government for the release of these young prisoners of conscience. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. I refer to the Bill on the notice paper commonly called the 'Abortion Bill'. I ask the Minister, in his capacity as Leader of the House, whether he is aware of the gigantic national concern currently manifested by the deluge of mail reaching members, which is seriously handicapping their ability to attend to other regular electoral work. If so, bearing in mind the requirements of Standing Orders, will the Minister assure honourable members that sufficient additional time will be allocated for a vote to be taken so that the Bill, either in its present monstrous form or any subsequently adulterated form, will be disposed of and not allowed to remain on the notice paper? 
 We listened with interest this evening because the opening remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  indicated that we were about to hear some sensational disclosures. He gave the impression that something had been going on and that he was carrying out a public duty in bringing it to the attention of the Parliament. 
I am afraid, as the honourable member for Scullin suggests, that the honourable member for Griffith has been hearing voices in the night which have caused him to rise this evening to make the remarks that he did. But for the life of me - and I have consulted with several of my colleagues - while listening to the honourable member for Griffith during his speech on the adjournment this evening, I found it impossible to detect from what he said anything that would warrant his speaking in this debate. 
As my colleague once again assists me by saying, there was not one scintilla of evidence in it. It is a great tragedy that the honourable member for Griffith has shown tonight a typical example of the mischievous attitude that is so irresponsibly shown in this Parliament by members of the Opposition. We have the example of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who, 10 minutes ago, attempted to scuttle the opportunities of this House to pass a very important housing measure. In addition to that, of course, he certainly detained the debate on the Defence Service Homes Bill. 
I do not know how much longer the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  can tolerate the irresponsible attitudes of members opposite who, collectively and individually, day after day - the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  of course is one of the chief offenders in this respect - rise on irresponsible points of order and take up the time of the House again and again on points of order simply to delay the passage of the business of the Government. They endeavour to ensure that important measures proposed by this Government are not carried by the House so that they can be put into effect as quickly as possible. It is not my intention to continue these remarks, save to repeat what I said to the honourable member for Griffith when he commenced his remarks, namely, that he should realise how fortunate he is to be saved once again by Democratic Labor Party preferences which returned him to this House. He should not waste (he time of the House with irresponsible and groundless accusations against this Government. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to the recent publicity regarding alleged deficiency in our laws dealing with credit? In line with the Government's intention to use its powers in the Territories, particularly the Australian Capital Territory, to provide models for effective law reform, will the Minister direct his attention to the issue of fair consumer credit laws? Will he particularly examine the recommendations made last year in the report of fair consumer credit laws by a committee of the Law Council of Australia? Will he make every effort to see that new laws of this type act effectively on the operations of supranational companies as well as local financiers? 
Continuing the debate on the Defence Service Homes Bill 1973 that was in progress before the suspension of the sitting, it is interesting to reflect on many of the attitudes that have been expressed by members of the Opposition who are, as we have found in the short time that my party has been in office, once again giving an indication of all the wonderful things they want to do now that it is too late. The outstanding fact in this vitally important government responsibility of satisfying the housing needs of Australians is the failure of a generation of Liberal-Country Party governments to accept this responsibility. They made no real effort. (Quorum formed.) Despite the interest shown by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who called the quorum, he was not able to drag many of his colleagues into the chamber to hear the debate that he said is of such a high standard. The fact is that previous governments failed to keep abreast of the needs by way of either financing rerequirements or providing regularly adjusted maximum loan amounts. I am pleased to support this Bil] and to congratulate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on its introduction. It is refreshing to have at last a Federal Minister for Housing who has the competence to understand the responsibility of his portfolio and who has the ability to tackle the problems, many of which have lingered for years due to the failure of previous governments to give any real leadership to the housing industry associations and to the housing industry in general. 
In the area of responsibility covered by this legislation, the Minister has been very quick to introduce these important and progressive changes. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  earlier this evening referred to the fundamental changes embodied in the proposals. He claimed that the whole spirit of the legislation is to be changed. I remind honourable members that it is appropriate that the spirit of the original proposals previously reflected in the War Service Homes Act is now to be reflected in the Defence Service Homes Act. We accept this fact. As I said by way of interjection during an earlier speech, this Government is a government of peace and not a government of war, as were previous governments. We desire to provide the benefits of this important provision to all serving personnel regardless of where or how they may serve in the future. We hope that in the future they will not need to serve overseas for this country in the field of battle, as it was previously necessary for them to do under the existing provisions of the Act, in order to obtain these benefits, lt is interesting to note that one of the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  is that the effective period for qualification under this Act be a period of service of 6 years. However, he represents the party that was prepared to bring people forcibly into the Service for much shorter periods of time than that. It is also interesting to look at how his Government looked after the members of the Defence forces while they were serving the nation and how it looked after them by way of the provision of accommodation. 
On at least 2 occasions during the previous Parliament I asked about that situation and answers to my questions disclosed that at 30th April 1971 there were no fewer than 4,458 serving personnel awaiting allocation of accommodation. Over 12 months later on 30th June 1972 there were 5,253 servicemen awaiting allocation of accommodation. Such was the interest the previous government had in the housing needs of serving personnel. It was little more interest than it had in the needs of ex-servicemen who had completed their service and qualified under the Act. Year after year, despite the urging of members of the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition, previous governments failed to provide adequately for progressive increases in the maximum loan available to serving personnel. Yet here is the Opposition now complaining about a provision in the Bill which will allow former national servicemen to benefit. It complains in very loud and clear terms about the unfair advantages to them because we wish to include all serving personnel within the provisions of this Bill. The Opposition wants to exclude certain sections of ex-servicemen, yet it was prepared to accept their service in the interest of previous governments when it had the responsibility of providing accommodation. 
As I have shown, the previous government failed to provide that accommodation and failed to provide it even when the serving personnel had completed their years of service. Now the Opposition directs its attention to those national servicemen in particular and wishes the Government to support an amendment which would exclude national servicemen from the provisions of this Bill. One of the important aspects of this Bill is that it gives the people eligible under its provisions an opportunity to get a reasonable maximum loan, lt certainly was the intention of this Government prior to the election to increase this amount even further and in the Minister's Press release on 16th January, prior to the introduction of this Bm, the following appeared: 

 Mr Johnson said that because of the substantial funds needed to fulfil other election promises in relation to housing, he bad proposed to Cabinet a progressive raising of the limit, firstly to $12,000 and then to $1 5,000. 
It is worth repeating this evening that it is the clear intention of the Government to increase the limit from $12,000 to $15,000 during the life of this Parliament. One of the major problems facing people today who require housing is the escalating price of land. I think we should congratulate the Minister for Housing for the attention that he has given to this problem.  His  concern is shared by many thousands of young people who today find the price of a block of land far beyond their reach. I can cite examples of the recent skyrocketing of prices of land in Brisbane. In the middle of 1972 about $7,000 had to be paid for a block of land in the new Brisbane suburb of Belbowrie. In 12 months the price of a similar block of land has skyrocketed to over $10,000. At Ridgewood Heights, on the fringe of my electorate, the price of a block of land has increased from about $4,000 to about $6,000 in 12 months. In Springwood, an outer Brisbane suburb on the way to the Gold Coast, the price of land has increased in less than 3 years from $2,500 to over $7,000. 
Yes. The land boom that has occurred in Sydney for so many years because of the irresponsible attitudes of the previous government, which turned its back on this problem, has spread to the outskirts of Brisbane. It will be necessary progressively to increase the maximum loan allowable in order to keep pace with skyrocketing land costs, lt is fairly obvious that the Government intends to tackle this problem in other ways. One immediate step that could be taken to attack the problem would be the imposition of a capital gains tax on speculators and developers who are now making excessive profits because of their immoral attitude. They know that people need land and they also know, as the old saying goes, that God has stopped making land. Because no more land is available the speculators are buying it up and selling it at profits ranging from 100 per cent to 200 per cent. 
A step that the Government could well consider would be the restriction of the capital appreciation of residential land to a fixed percentage. A fixed relationship with the consumer price index would be a fair and reasonable basis for calculation of the profits on land sold by speculators and developers to home builders. A capital gains tax of even 100 per cent could then be imposed as a curb on the disproportionate prices now being charged for residential land. This could be applied to both subdividers and speculators. 1 believe that the provisions of this legislation are well worthy of praise and of putting into effect as soon as possible. Because of the pressure of other business in the Parliament this measure has been before the House on various occasions since 7th March. I trust that very shortly this debate will be completed so that people may benefit from the worthwhile provisions of this proposal. J commend the Bill to the House. 
gh - upon resignation of  Mr F.  M. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that the Queensland Premier is about to journey overseas and that one of his stated intentions is to confer with  Her  Majesty the Queen and British Government leaders? Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Queensland Premier is advised in detail of the success of the Prime Minister's recent trip and the discussions that he held with both the Queen and the British Prime Minister as the only government leader entitled to speak officially internationally on behalf of all Australians, including the Queensland Premier? 
My principal purpose in entering this debate today is to draw to the attention of the Government a matter that gave me much concern in the days between the end of the last Parliament on 26th October and the holding of the election on 2nd December. 1 refer to appointments that were made by various Ministers in that dying Government. We all knew at the time that it was a dying government. But firstly I feel as a  Queenslander  that 1 must once again make reference, as I had to do the other evening, to the irresponsible remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  lt is true that we in this House have come to know him well, and it is also true that he continues to go on and on with the same irresponsibility, seldom worrying about the matters which he raises. 
The honourable member touched today on 2 matters which are of great  importance  to Queenslanders.  He  dealt with the grave problem facing the shipyard of Evans  nc-  ' n Industries Ltd. In a truly irresponsible way he accused the present Government and the present Minister for Transport and Minister  for  Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles (ones)  of being almost totally responsible for  the position in which this shipyard is placed. Any reasonable person knows that the total responsibility must be laid at the feet of the previous Government which, at the end of a long series of Liberal-Country Party governments, failed to show any sense of responsibility by preserving in a viable way the  economic  future of the shipbuilding industry in Australia. Never in the long period that the previous Government was in office did it take any action to show that it was concerned for the continued growth of this industry which is vitally important to this nation. That Government tolerated the industry in Australia rather than sponsor its growth, and the stop-go policies that it adopted over the years were totally responsible for the grave situation now faced by the shipbuilding industry in Australia and particularly by the Evans Deakin shipyard. 1 do not deny that there are problems in the industrial field in Queensland as far as the unions are concerned. On this aspect I compliment the Minister because he has taken  every opportunity to make his position and the Government's position clear on this matter. 1 go on record as saying that my view at the moment is that we should not sponsor the move that has been made recently for this Government to take over the shipyard. I do not believe that that is an action that we should be contemplating today. My principal reason for opposition to this move is that I believe the problems faced by Evans Deakin would be multiplied and compounded if the shipyard were run by a Federal Labor government. 1 would be very happy to see a Federal Labor government in co-operation perhaps with the State Government and in partnership jointly with Evans Deakin - if this were suitable, or perhaps with the State Government alone - to take over the responsibility for making a decision to rebuild this shipyard. A decision must soon be taken to rebuild the shipyard. A decision should have beon taken in 1967, but instead a political decision was taken. That decision, which was influenced by the then Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Thomas  Hiley, was to reconstruct the yard at Kangaroo Point. The yard should have been reconstructed at the mouth of the Brisbane River. 1 hope that this Government will be responsible for initiating that type of decision in the very near future. 
Let me touch on one other area of irresponsibility in which the honourable member for Griffith took the opportunity to join this morning. I refer to the accusation that this Government is responsible for the delay in the development of the Brisbane airport which is so vital to Queensland. This is the airport which caused members of the previous Opposition and the Lord Mayor of Brisbane to be so critical of previous Liberal-Country Party governments. Its condition certainly is not something that can now be slung around the neck of this Government with an accusation that we will prevent the development of the airport continuing. No decision has been made by the Cabinet, and this was very clearly indicated by the Minister, to take action that will hold up the development of this airport. Action taken so far has shown that the Government is prepared to make a move in a direction that will result in the establishment of the airport as planned. I agree that this is following on a plan that was prepared and put into operation by the previous Government in co-operation with the 
Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council. 
The recommendations of the advisory committee which during the period 1970-71 reviewed the need for this airport and made certain decisions are being carried out by this Government. The announcement this morning by the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation that $6.5m will be allocated for the acquisition of land required for the development of this airport certainly cannot be taken as an indication that the Government does not intend to go ahead with all possible speed, taking into consideration of course the needs of the development of the airport, to see that the airport is developed and is operational by the late 1970s as was recommended by the advisory committee. The fact of the matter is that once again the honourable member for Griffith, who I assume has based his remarks on the ill founded and irresponsible article that appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper of Wednesday last, has gone off half cocked and has tried to accuse the Government that has been in office barely 6 months of something he would like to see happen but which we know will not eventuate; that is that this Government will hold up such an important development as the Brisbane Airport. 
I want now to refer to action that was taken in what I believe to be a most irresponsible fashion by several Ministers in the closing hours of the life of the previous Government. Knowing that they were certain of defeat at the polls they proceeded with a rush of appointments to a wide range of responsibilities, In doing so I suggest to the House they abused the office they held as Ministers of the Crown. Their actions were a disgraceful example of the unprincipled methods of operation so typical of many Ministers of the last Government. 
 The honourable member does not want to hear what I want to say. 
Order! There is no point of order. 
The methods of operation of Ministers of the last Government were so typical of this irresponsible and haphazard approach. The honourable member for Angas need not take my word for it. The former Prime Minister in an interview on 25 November, a few days before the election, said: 
I couldn't get the work done quickly enough and  1  found  frequently  that the  political approaches  to  it  were not as good  as  I thought they should be. 
That is what the former Prime Minister thought of the Ministers to whom 1 am referring. I want to refer to the appointments that were made by former Ministers which covered a wide range of responsibilities. Significantly enough and most importantly 1 want to refer to the appointment of members to the Australian Wool Corporation. On 26 November, knowing that he had not much longer to go and to be able to make decisions of this sort, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the then Minister for Primary Industry, announced the appointment of members to the Australian Wool Corporation.  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden was appointed to the position of full time  chairman  of the Corporation. The names of other members of the Corporation were given, but I do not have time to list them now. On 8th November the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  the then Minister for Trade and Industry, announced a senior trade appointment in Osaka. On 9th November he announced the appointment of the position of Minister (Commercial) to the European Economic Community. On 21st November the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, announced the appointment of Australian diplomatic representation in Nauru. I suggest that if the Government or the Ministers now responsible for these appointments have not had the time to examine them in close detail, they should do so because it is vitally important that the nation's confidence in these boards and corporations is restored. The Government should make sure that the appointments made so hastily and irresponsibly by the last Government are reviewed and that it takes this action to show how intolerable they were. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! As it is now 15 minutes to 1 o'clock, in accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That  grievances  be  noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  was making his speech this evening I expected him to break out at. any time into a verse from 'Rule Britannia'. My colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle),  said to me when he walked into the chamber that he felt sure that he must have been in Rhode sia listening to Ian Smith. I am sure that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  will be able to deal with such a racist speech when he rises during the course of this debate. I want to say initially this evening that Australia is fortunate to have had a change of government. It is fortunate from the point of view of natural born Australians and of people who have sought to come here and adopt this nation as their homeland. The inequalities and discriminations that this Bill will eliminate have been in existence for far too long. It is reasonable to assume that all Australians - apparently with the exception of the Opposition - should be proud of their nation and would welcome these proposals. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
If we are to maintain our great tradition that every citizen should be equal before the law, it is surely essential that everyone seeking to become  a  citizen, after being lawfully admitted for residence in Australia, should find they are equally treated when they try to become citizens. 
So it is that this Bill provides for all, regardless of origins, the same requirements as to residence, good character, knowledge of the language and of the rights and duties of citizenship, and intention to live here permanently. 
Surely that is both reasonable and desirable. Could any loyal and proud Australian object to that aim? Yet we find that the Opposition is opposed to the passage of this Bill. From the previous Minister for Immigration we heard this evening adequate reason for us to say with every certainty that the Australian immigration program was in a shambles because of the attitude of the previous Government. It is easy to appreciate the massive task that the present Minister had to face on assuming his portfolio in setting out to lift the standard of our immigration policy in the eyes of the rest of the world. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  outlined this evening the Opposition's very weak case for opposing this Bill. It is clear that the members of the Opposition continue to live in the past and think in outmoded terms. They have tried to suggest on many occasions in recent years that the White Australia policy was dead. If so, it was certainly revived in the speeches this evening of both the honourable member for Barker and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. They desire to maintain the inequalities and discriminations that they introduced and enforced during their term in office. 
In one respect the Opposition has been at least consistent. In office its supporters consistently applied a principle of discrimination that is perhaps better described as the equality of liberalism, that is, that everyone was equal as long as a select and favoured few were more equal than anyone else. Having passed through nearly a quarter of a century during which that principle was consistently and rigidly applied, it is a wonder that there were still people from other countries throughout the world who desired to migrate to this nation when the Australian Labor Party came into office. We have the shameful results of the policy that the previous administration enforced enshrined in our legislation and administrative processes. The number and variety of inequalities are unimaginable. They include inequalities between pre-school children, depending upon whether they live in the Australian Capital Territory or in the various States; inequalities between our children, depending upon which school they attend; inequalities between men and women; inequalities between the wage earner and the prices setter, inequalities between the electors in the State electorates and particularly in Commonwealth electorates, depending upon the electorate in which they leave; inequalities between migrants, depending upon the country of their origin; inequalities between overseas visitors and more particularly between migrants, depending upon the country of origin; and, of course, inequalities between applicants who seek eligibility for citizenship under the terms of the Act enforced by the previous Government - the Act which this Bill seeks to amend. The existence of these inequalities has in the past often deterred migrants from even seeking naturalisation. That is patently obvious from the fact that in recent months - since the changes announced by the Minister earlier this year - applications for citizenship have more than doubled. 
Applications from people seeking to derive the benefit of living in this country under a Labor Governent are more than double the number prior to 2nd December of last year under the previous regime. Under the previous Government discrimination did not cease when the immigrant was naturalised; it continued beyond the date of the ceremony. In many instances it still continues. I must compliment the Minister on the fact that he has taken steps to attack the discrimination that exists in the various States by the establishment of various task forces to look at the problems involved. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred this evening to the adverse effects that the proposals contained in this Bill have already had and will continue to have on the number of migrants coming to Australia from the United Kingdom. I am reminded of the fact that during the time the Government of which he was a member sought to attract migrants from Great Britain it never at any time achieved any more than a 50 per cent migrant intake in one year. I have some figures in front of me from which I would like to quote. These figures were supplied today to my colleague  Senator Mulvihill.  They indicate the interest that still exists in the United Kingdom on the part of people seeking to come to Australia. The figures that were made available today show that in February of this year there were 11,435 people awaiting interview, 7,609 awaiting determination and 2,886 awaiting movement to Australia. That certainly indicates that people from the United Kingdom are still at least as anxious as they ever were under the previous Government to come to Australia. I also have figures in front of me which I will be seeking to have incorporated in Hansard that show the position in the years 1960 to 1962 as compared with the years 1971 to 1973. The figures are from the first 3 months of each of those 6 years. The figures are fairly consistent, even though there were fluctuations. The fluctuations are consistent and comparable within the 10-year period to which the figures relate. I seek leave to have those figures incorporated in Hansard. 
United Kingdom Application Rate 1960- January, 5,234; February, 5,008; 
March, 6,227. 1961- January, 9,774; February, 13,510; 
March, 11,238. 1962- January, 5,400; February, 6,771; 
March, 6,771. 1971 - January, 9,974; February, 6,499; 
March, 12,471. 1972 - January, 11,109; February, 12,200; 
March, 13,177. 1973- January, 8,566; February, 10,153; 
March, 10,215. 
The immigration policy of the Government seeks to rid the nation of the inconsistencies, inequalities and discrimination that we believe should no longer be allowed to exist when we are seeking to bring people from various countries and to welcome them as citizens in their own right in Australia. We want to welcome them here and to give them an opportunity to live in this nation with all the privileges that are available to natural born Australians. The previous Government had no intention ever to do that. It did not make any pretence that it was interested in receiving migrants except from certain selected countries. We believe that a great deal of attention must be given now and in the future to the fact that this nation is located in the Asiatic region of the world. We can no longer give offence to the people of those nations as the previous Government was prepared to do in the past. 
In the interest of peaceful co-existence in a mixed world, to enable us to play our proper role in world councils and to broaden our knowledge of the customs and cultures of other nations, all Australians have a duty to resolve to work towards the complete removal from within of all individual prejudices and ideas of superiority. There is no scientific basis for the often held belief that one race is superior to another race. As we discard prejudices, so will we improve our capacity to assimilate migrants from all countries of the world. This is essential in Australia if we are to grow in respect as part of the Asiatic section of the world in which we live. 
This Bill represents a very important step towards that objective. If the Opposition were not so biased in its acceptance of the fact that this Government has been prepared to do what its predecessor had not been forthright enough to attempt, despite the statements that previous Ministers and the present leaders of the Opposition made when they were in office, it would acknowledge that the present Minister for Immigration has been prepared to tackle this problem and to recognise the fact that these things need to be done speedily. I therefore have much pleasure in supporting the Bill and commending it to the House. 
I am delighted to have the opportunity to support this Bill. I am delighted to say at the outset of my remarks that I am in a position to do something that probably should not happen very often to a member on this side of the House. I am able to compliment not only one but two of the recent speakers from the Opposition side. In particular, I compliment the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I must say this about him: Having had the experience originally of tackling him in a Federal election in 1966, I have never doubted his capacity to stand up for the things in which he believes. I found that out on that occasion, and on every occasion since then when he has felt the need to stand up for a principle such as this he has done so. Not only on this occasion today but also on each occasion that this matter has been discussed in the Parliament he has shown his preparedness to do so. 
The fact is that on the previous occasion when this matter was before us there were not enough of his colleagues on the Government side in those days who had the same feeling of nationalism as he has shown today and as has been shown also by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Of course, the debate on that occasion lapsed for want of solidarity in that Government and for want of a preparedness on the part of that Government to accept the support that was genuinely extended to it by members of the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, to give this nation an opportunity to overcome the problems that were readily visible. There had been no determination of the rights of the nation or the rights of the various States to the areas of our nation beyond the low water mark. 
This morning the Brisbane newspaper, the Courier-Mail', carried the banner headline: Liberals Avoid Sea Bill Split'. I daresay that it was due to the arguments of the honourable member for Moreton and the former Prime Minister that the Liberals were able to avoid that split, but it is a sad condemnation, that there still exist in the ranks of the Liberal Party so many who have not been prepared to learn the lessons of the last election. One of those lessons surely was that the former Government was cast out of office because it lacked the intestinal fortitude that this nation needed; it lacked the leadership and back-up support for leadership that would have enabled it to put a measure such as this through the last Parliament. Today honourable members opposite are in the position of trying to have, in old terms, 2 bob each way. They will not block this legislation in the House of Representatives but some of them are hoping that their friends in the Senate might do something with it. For that purpose they have introduced an amendment for consideration here. The 'Courier-Mail' article stated: 
The Liberals decided to press an amendment to the legislation deploring the Federal Government's failure to consult the States, all of which have opposed the Government's moves. 
What gross hypocrisy it is for Opposition members to talk about the failure of this Government to consult with the States. During the years they had the opportunity to consult with the States, on every occasion that they opened up discussions with the States the reactions of some of the States were such that the former Government dropped the discussions. It swept the problem under the carpet and went no further than attempting in a half-hearted fashion to convince the people of Australia that it was solid in its determination to do something about this matter, to have the problem solved. I venture to say that if the nation had had the misfortune of having the former Government inflicted upon it for another 3 years there would have been throughout the life of this Parliament the same procrastination as there was throughout tha life of the last Parliament. 
As recently as 13th August last year, when this legislation was discussed in a very limited way in this Parliament and when an attempt was made by the then Opposition to give honourable members on the other side of the House who were then back bench members of the Government parties an opportunity to measure up to what they had been prepared to stand up and support, we saw that they were not prepared to do so. The temporary compromise between the Commonwealth and States, which we saw occur so often during the life of the last Parliament over this matter of control of off-shore waters, was hailed in some quarters as a victory for co-operation and negotiation and as a vindication of true federalism. Many other high sounding phrases were used to describe it. However, we know that it was just an exercise in humbug; it was an exercise in dithering; and it was a typical exercise of the last Prime Minister - indecision after indecision. I congratulate the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on having the foresight to bring this measure into the House. I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on his forthright statements on this issue since it once again became an issue of public comment. 
We are in the position today that the Labor Premiers are disgracefully lining themselves up with the Premiers of other States and, as was shown in an answer to a question asked at the Prime Minister's Press conference last Tuesday, doing so in the face of what they clearly must know to be the policy of the Labor Party. One Labor Premier in particular would have been a delegate to the Federal Conference that discussed, supported and ultimately adopted this very policy. One wonders today why these people have lost their national attitudes. It is true that very often when we come to talk about national issues we hear people talking as Western Australians, Queenslanders or Victorians but, sadly, not as Australians. I am sorry that I must confess here today that we in the Labor Party have now disclosed that we have some of these people in our midst. I hope that before too many days have passed they will see the error of their ways. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker-  (Quorum formed.) I may perhaps comment,  Mr Speaker,  that association with the word 'Wentworth' seems to have a strange effect on the behaviour of honourable members opposite. However, I recognise the fact that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who called for the formation of a quorum, might have been concerned at the whereabouts of some of his Liberal colleagues at this hour of the night when they should have been present in the chamber. Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the concern that I have, and I am sure many other honourable members on this side of the House have, at the fact that some of the States which collectively could be referred to as the more enlightened States - the States that have Labor Governments - have decided to align themselves with the less enlightened States in their attitude to the announcement by the Prime Minister that this measure would be introduced in the House. As I said before, I hope that within a few days the Labor Premiers may see the error of their ways and they may see that there is no justification for them racing off to the other side of the world to seek clarification and justification of any of the proposals contained in this Bill. 
How ridiculous it is to consider that some 70 years after Federation we still have people believing that they have to adopt a defensive attitude against every decision that the Commonwealth wishes to make. Surely they must realise that they all belong to one nation. How ridiculous it is to suggest, as some of them have done, that States' rights and the people's welfare will be threatened if this Bill is passed by this Parliament. We have the ridiculous attitude that was adopted by the last Queensland Minister for Justice,  Dr Delamothe  when this issue was first discussed in the Federal Parliament. He made a statement in the Press that he saw a distinct possibility of floating two-up games and call girl services with dinghies rowing clients to pleasure launches off the Queensland coast. The Press report stated: 
He told State Parliament that these "possibilities' could arise through a combination of Commonwealth offshore-resources legislation and a recent High Court decision. 
The other day I heard a prominent State politician, whose name escapes me for the moment, interviewed on a radio program. He said that he saw the State laws being defied by people in the water 5 yards beyond the low watermark. Surely if any of these suggestions exist as genuine possibilities - these call girl services that  Dr Delamothe  feared, or the breaches of State laws that could occur, according to recent comments, as a result of this legislation - any such problems can soon be overcome. Surely these possibilities do not give the States the need to adopt the attitude that they have adopted. Surely today we should be able to expect a reasonable attitude from the States and a realisation that this is a matter which must be settled. It can only be settled, as has been mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech, by a challenge to the legislation being taken, if necessary to the highest- court in Australia. 
Despite what the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said this afternoon there have been instances in the past when it has been embarrassing to this nation to be seen in the eyes of the rest of the world, and particularly in the eyes of the emerging nations of Asia, as being restricted in our efforts to speak with one voice as a nation. In contrast to the last government, this Government is attempting to build a respectable image for Australia. The fact is that in the past there have been instances - these were referred to by the Minister in his secondreading speech - where the States have not agreed to the Commonwealth ratifying international conventions or have imposed extreme delays on such actions. It is little wonder when we have Premiers of the style of the present Premier of Queensland, who in a schizophrenic reaction to the action of the Commonwealth in introducing this measure talked about seceding. Of course he has been disowned by every reasonable politician in his State. But when we have States led by politicians of this calibre it is only reasonable to expect that a Commonwealth Government such as the present one, with Ministers and a Prime Minister of such high calibre, will be prepared to take on the States and to show them that what we are doing is in their interest and in the national interest, and that there is no need for them to adopt the bogyman attitude they have adopted over this measure. I am very pleased to support the Bill and once again say that I am sure the House will realise how ridiculous is the amendment proposed to the Bill by the Opposition as a face saving measure for its own dissident ranks. I am sure that the House will reject the amendment and support the Bill. 
I am afraid that I cannot repeat some of the remarks I made last week when I entered a debate after the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I knew his attitude could not last. Today he does not have on his Australian jersey. He is not speaking as an Australian. I think that for a moment during his speech he thought that he was taking a trip to fantasyland with the Premier of Queensland, who was there last weekend.  His  remarks were typical of the style we have grown to expect from the Opposition in the few months that I have been able to judge its performance. It is still the same old Liberal Party that was discredited to the extent that it was defeated in such a resounding way at the polls last December. 
I noticed that in an article in the 'Australian' this morning dealing with the Opposition, headed 'The Opposition - Six Months Later', the author considered the way that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has been performing. The article contains a remark which is true of the Opposition's attitude to this Bill and true of its general performance. It is: 
Perhaps without realising it, he- 
Meaning the Leader of the Opposition -  gives a series of clues to the fact that his is the same Liberal Party with the same faults, the same  lack  of flexibility and the same preoccupation with protecting big business interests.  The Opposition today, Country Party and Liberal Party alike, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and perhaps to a less extent the honourable member for Moreton, have come out with the same propaganda that we would expect to hear from them. They put forward the same philosophies that were put forward in the leading article in the 'Courier-Mail' this morning by Alan Underwood. Obviously the speeches of Opposition members are in the style of that article. It is the same propaganda which 
Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has been putting forward in recent days. It is the same propaganda that was mouthed this afternoon by Opposition spokesmen. 
As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has assured the House and as I am certain he will state in no uncertain terms in his summing up of this debate, it is not the intention of this Government to put TransAustralia Airlines at any advantage in comparison with Ansett Transport Industries. It is the endeavour and the intention of the Government to put TAA on an equal footing with Ansett Transport Industries. It is the intention of the Government to put into effect matters on which it had been the intention of the previous Government to legislate should it have been the Government of this country following the last election. Clearly, the previous Minister for Civil Aviation expressed these intentions when he introduced the Airlines Agreement Bill into the Senate on 26 August last year. These intentions were fully known to TAA, to Ansett Transport Industries, to the members of this Goverment and I am sure to the honourable member for Farrer and the honourable member for Gippsland. They knew that it was the intention of the previous Minister for Civil Aviation to introduce similar legislation to the Bill now before the House, should the previous Government have been in a position to do so after the last elections. 
This was the assurance given to TAA. It was in terms that the Australian National Airlines Commission accepted the extension of the 2-airline agreement which Ansett Transport Industries wanted so badly. My understanding of the situation at that time was that TAA would not have signed the agreement if that assurance had not been given. The assurances were given and the 2-airline agreement was signed. It is on the basis of those assurances that this Bill is today before the House. The conditions of this Bill are based on the objectives of the previous Government. They are in the form that had been intended by the previous Government. The fear campaign and the fear tactics that the Opposition is sponsoring in this House today, which have only recently been devised, arise from the carefully contrived fear campaigns brought to the attention of the Opposition by Ansett Transport Industries. As I said earlier, today honourable members opposite are speaking in this 
Parliament on behalf of  Sir Reginald  Ansett, and I would not doubt that we might hear during the course of this debate from such honourable members as the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  a former Minister, who probably has every reason to get up and speak today on behalf of Ansett Transport Industries. He will be quite anxious to pay his debt of gratitude to the Director of Ansett Transport Industries who, I am led to believe, played a very prominent role in the honourable member's last election campaign. This is the big pay-off to these people. 
I withdraw,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It would not be my intention to say that these things were an accomplished fact. They just left me open to the suspicion that they might be. It is the Government's intention to allow TAA to diversify its activities and to enter into the type of enterprise in which we have seen Ansett Transport Industries successfully engage. Surely the Government airline is entitled to have the power to engage, in a small way, in these additional activities. After all, they are related to the airline's basic function, which is to provide airline services, ft is for this reason that the previous Government and now in turn this Government have recognised that the carriage of people and goods by road, in an area in which previously TAA has been denied the opportunity to operate, needs the flexibility that is contained in the provisions of the Bill. 
I do not doubt that TAA will use the services of existing companies. After all, they are the experts in their field of operation. But it is clearly unacceptable for the airline to be in the position that it has to rely entirely on these services and not be in a similar position to Ansett Transport Industries which in the past has had the opportunity to develop such services for itself when it saw the need so to do. If nothing else, surely it would provide an incentive to the existing road transport operators to enter into more mutually beneficial arrangements with TAA than they have been prepared to do in the past. 
A similar comment applies to the hotel field, which is the other field mentioned in the fear campaign that was introduced into the debate today. TAA could benefit its passengers if it had ready access to accommodation, preferably by means of arrangements with existing hotel operators. This is not to be taken as a threat to the established interests in the hotel and motel field. Surely it is reasonable for TAA to have the same opportunities as have been extended to Ansett Transport Industries in the past, when TAA sees the need for the establishment of these facilities. If the present facilities operating in this area are inadequate, TAA must be in a position to establish such facilities. Until now it has been denied the opportunity to do so. 
I am sure that there is no intention by TAA to engage in the construction of large hotels throughout Australia. I believe that projects of this kind would be frowned on by the Government. The simple provision is made for TAA to do as we, in Opposition last year, suggested it should do when we introduced into this Parliament discussion on a matter of public importance. This will enable us to have an even-handed 2-airline policy. That is the Minister's intention in the provisions of the Bill and he is to be complimented for it. The Government does not intend to make TAA into a great hotel and motel accommodation chain, which the Flat motel interests have suggested is the intention of the Bill. Neither, would I believe, are we interested in the Airlines Commission using Government money to establish uneconomic accommodation facilities. The facilities which presently exist and which are shown to be economic are the facilities which TAA would use, as it has used them in the past. This legislation gives TAA the flexibility in its operations which the previous Government denied the airline. lt has been suggested also in the fear tactics used in the campaign against the legislation before the Parliament that TAA gets away without paying any of the taxes, charges and rates which its competitor, Ansett, has to pay. As with all other Commonwealth instrumentalities, TAA is not legally liable for such taxes or rates. However, the practice adopted by the previous Government - and I see no reason to suggest that the present Government will not continue the practice - was that TAA, in the same way as other Government instrumentalities, was either made legally liable to pay the bulk equivalent of such taxes or directed to make equivalent ex gratia payments to the State or local authorities in lieu of these taxes. In other words, TAA pays all the usual State and local taxes. It always has paid these taxes, and I believe that it would be the Government's intention that TAA should continue to do so. 
This would happen even if TAA branched out into the road transport field. So the fear tactic that was used in argument today, that there would be competition in the road transport field by an organisation that would not be paying road taxes has no sound basis for consideration as a worthwhile argument against the provisions contained in this Bill. I understand that in the past the only taxes from which TAA has claimed exemption have been land tax and stamp duty. But the savings from this exemption amount to the colossal sum of $12,000 per annum. During 1971-72, TAA paid the following amounts: municipal rates, $103,292, water rates, $72,177, garbage rates, $2,064, land tax, $5,973, and Department of Civil Aviation water rates, municipal rates and sewerage rates, $25,697, making a total of $209,203. So, of course, the argument that TAA does not pay taxes does not stand up under examination. 
The provisions in the Bill which extend to TAA the opportunity to compete with Ansett Transport Industries so that TAA receives a fair share of the internal revenues from airline passenger and freight activities show that these provisions are warranted when a comparison is made of the revenues achieved from both of these sources in 1971-72. TAA now earns 58 per cent of the total Ansett Transport Industries revenue. I sought and obtained the agreement of the shadow Minister for Transport to incorporate a table in Hansard. 
This concern that the Opposition has expressed and set out in the amendment is a matter, I am sure, that we can well appreciate. If there were any genuine grounds for the concern there would be some reason for the efforts which honourable members opposite are endeavouring to make in order to get the Committee to do what they suggest. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has given a clear undertaking, particularly after the amendment was introduced, that these things are just not going to happen. There appears to be no purpose in the Minister or the Government considering any further the terms of the proposals set out in the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I again refer to an article that was quoted, to some extent, by my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  earlier today. Quoting the words of a director of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd,  Sir Peter  Abeles, the article states: 
I know the intent of the Minister (Transport Minister,  Mr Jones)  has been to make TAA competi tive. We always feel competition on an equal basis is good for everybody'. 

 Sir Peter said that he did not object to any provisions in the Bill allowing TAA to buy shares in Ansett Transport Industries . . . 
He also said that he did not have any objection to the provisions of the Bill and that he did not believe there was any intention that TAA should take over the hotel industry. 
He certainly made many other comments. If the honourable member for Griffith wanted me to read the whole article to the Committee, I would be delighted to do so, but the limited time imposed on this debate does not permit me to do that. I think that it is far more fitting for me to quote from a speech made in the Senate on 29 August last year on the civil aviation policy of the last Government than to quote from an article in this morning's Press referring to what was said by  Sir Peter  Abeles. If one takes it right from the horse's mouth one sees what the intention of the previous Minister was regarding this matter. It is easy to relate that to the intention of this Government. Probably it would amount to the same thing as  Sir Peter  Abeles is reported to have said in this morning's Press, and it is probably the one thing which the honourable member for Griffith wanted me to quote.  Sir Peter  Abeles said he had not read the legislation in detail but he had enough trust in the Minister for Civil Aviation, in the Government and in TAA or the Australian Airlines Commission to know that these great bogies that have been trotted out today were non-existent and were not likely to arise to put TAA into the position of doing all these horrible socialistic things that the Opposition is suggesting it would do. The Minister for Civil Aviation in the previous Government,  Senator Cotton,  said - I quote from the Senate Hansard of 29 August 1972: 
The Government has decided further to give TAA greater opportunity to undertake outside engineering work, including government contracts, and to enter into mutually beneficial arrangements with surface transport carriers and hotel-motel operators. This is designed to improve Trans-Australia Airlines abilities to continue to compete effectively, especially now that it faces additional competition. 
Surely those proposals mentioned in the statement are in line with the proposals before us today. Accordingly, there seems to be no reason why the Bill cannot be supported. If honourable members opposite were genuine in their expressed concern - I would hope that they were - let them rest assured that that concern should be allayed by the undertakings that have been given by the Minister in the proposals he has put, particularly in the amendment he proposes to move in Committee to safeguard the future operations of TAA in these various fields. As Ansett Transport Industries Ltd increases its activities in its fringe operations, in parallel but at a lower level - in fact, following behind Ansett Transport Industries Ltd - there will be comparative increases in these operations by TAA. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is he aware that in the last  2  financial years the actual demand for telephone services in Queensland has exceeded the national average and has been shown to have been 10.6 per cent in 1970-71 and 13.5 per cent in 1971-72? Can he say whether these figures and the increase indicated by them show the seriousness of the current backlog of service connections in the Brisbane and surrounding metropolitan areas where some people face a 2-year wait for the connection of telephone services? Can the Minister also say what plans, in addition to those he has already announced and put into operation, are proposed to reverse the alarming trend disclosed in the figures I have quoted? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has his attention been drawn to reports that an agreement has been reached between trade unions and the management of Evans Deakin Industries Pty Ltd which should guarantee to Evans Deakin the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. oil rig contract and also future industrial harmony at its shipyard at Kangaroo Point? Can he give to the House any further information on this vitally important matter on which to a large degree the immediate future of the shipbuilding industry in Queensland depends? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. It refers to the appointment of a prominent Queensland trade unionist,  Mr John  Egerton, to the board of Qantas. 1 ask the Minister: Is this an indication of the practice that will be followed by this Government in respect of giving qualified trade unionists representation on appropriate boards? How does this practice compare with the opportunities that were extended to such people under previous governments of recent times? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the publication during the parliamentary recess of an honours list sponsored by certain of the Premiers who still quaintly regard themselves as leaders of sovereign States instead of parts of the nation? If these honours were of the type correctly rejected by the Australian Government as no longer fitting for Australian citizens, can he tell honourable members what action the Government has taken to introduce an Australian honours system and when he expects to make an announcement of its introduction? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' last Friday on the Australian Government's English language training scheme for migrants. 
After listening to the first 20 minutes of the speech that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  found that he had to deliver this afternoon, it is no wonder that the effectiveness of it was displayed so readily by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  when he was prepared to move for an extension of time for the right honourable gentleman to give us another 10 minutes of it. The whinging, whining prophet of doom attitude that he has taken surely indicates the frustration of the Country Party when it realised that it was led by the nose into opposition by the failure of its senior partner in coalition, not only in the months preceding the election but also in a period of some years preceding it. It has failed to live up to the hopes that people have held for the coalition for some years under its first Leader,  Sir Robert  Menzies. In his speech last Tuesday evening, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  endeavoured to suggest that one of the points on which he was taking the Government to task was its failure to implement election promises. What hypocrisy for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest, after this Government has been in office for only 9 months, that there would not be some election promises that as yet remain to be implemented. Let me remind honourable members opposite that, for 23 years, their Government continually made promises at election after election and many of them will recall, certainly if they are honest in their recollections, that those promises for the most part failed, and failed miserably. The people who supported them over the years finally despaired of any chance of getting them to implement the policies on which they had been elected- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Angas will resume his seat and will not take irresponsible points of order. 
The honourable member for Angas knows as well as I and the people of Australia know that promises were broken more often than they were kept by the Liberal Party in government. Last year, the final Budget of a generation of Liberal-Country Party governments was delivered by the present Leader of the Opposition who then was known as Billy Mackie Snedden. He is now known as Bill. A leading article in the 'Sunday Telegraph' of 13 August last year said: 
The Liberal-Country Party Government will be bringing in its 23rd consecutive Budget on Tuesday night. All the signs point towards it being the last for quite a few years. 
The headline was: 'Can Billie Mackie Snedden's Budget save the McMahon Government?' Well, of course, it could not. On 2 December, a new government was elected. We are not ashamed of the fact that, as we have been accused, in this Budget we have set new horizons, that it is a Budget of new directions and that it is a Budget that introduces some socialistic principles to this nation. It is the Budget of a democratic socialist party. Honourable members opposite might as well get used to speaking on our Budgets from the Opposition benches because, at the rate at which they are going, they will be doing so for quite a number of years. 
I take the opportunity, in congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on his first Budget, to highlight a few of the important aspects of that document which interest me and the electorate of Bowman which I have the honour to represent. The announcement that $10m will be made available in 1973-74 to assist the States and eligible organisations to meet the capital and operating costs of providing community health facilities and services is certainly welcome. A large proportion of electors in Bowman are pensioners or are in receipt of repatriation benefits. As these people are concentrated in areas at the out skirts of Brisbane, there are certainly great benefits to come to those people from the introduction of such a scheme as will be implemented in due course in accordance with the program that has been laid down in the report on a community health program for Australia which was tabled in this Parliament recently by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham). 
One other item in which I am particularly interested is the amount of $250,000 that is to be made available to acquire sites and to prepare plans for major hospitals in Brisbane and Melbourne. This allocation was announced in the Budget Speech by the Treasurer at the same time as he announced that $4.5m was being provided to meet the urgent needs of hospitals in the major Australian capitals. Also, $4m was to be provided towards the cost of a hospital in the western suburbs of Sydney. I would hope that when we speak next year on the Budget for 1974- 75 the same attention which has been given in this Budget to the development of a new major suburban hospital in Sydney will have been accorded to Brisbane. There is no doubt that the great free hospital system which operates in Queensland and which was established by a Queensland Labor Government many years ago has been sadly neglected in the years that it has been supported reluctantly by Country Party-Liberal Party coalitions in that State. The injection of such amounts of money as will be forthcoming from this Government with the introduction of the national health scheme will be needed greatly in the city of Brisbane. A great need for such moneys exists in Brisbane today. 
I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  on the introduction of the important benefits that will give the opportunity now for Boer War and World War I veterans to have available to them the facilities of repatriation hospitals. I recall a question that I asked the then Minister for Repatriation and which was answered on 12 September 1972. The answer disclosed that, at that time, fewer than 200 Boer War veterans were not qualified for those benefits and some 66,700 World War I veterans were not so qualified. Those veterans who remain from those numbers will certainly receive great benefit from the announcement by the Treasurer that this worth while facility will be made available to them. 
It is timely that we have now the opportunity to implement the important benefit for home owners that was announced in the policy speech of the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As he said in his policy speech - the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has indicated legislation to implement that policy will be introduced later this year - 'There will be introduced legislation to provide tax concessions for home owners'. The Prime Minister stated in his policy speech that where the actual income was $4,000 per annum or less, people would be entitled to a deduction of 100 per cent of their interest rate payments and that the percentage of total interest payment which is deductible will be reduced to 1 per cent for every SI 00 in excess of that $4,000. 
This is a scheme which will virtually replace the scheme that has been in operation now since July 1964 and is known as the homes savings grants scheme. The Minister for Housing has announced that that scheme will not be ended abruptly; it will be phased out over a period. It is interesting to note that that scheme was introduced following the 1963 elections in an endeavour to allay the fear of the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who felt that it was up to him to do something for the home owners and the people who needed to be provided with a better opportunity to gain a home. I understand from the records that I have studied that at that time some 70,000 Australians were seeking homes and were unable to get them. The increase in the years that the former Government remained in office brought that figure to some 93,000 at the time when it went out of office last December. 
That scheme operated mainly to the disadvantage of young people. It was never completely explained to them. Many young people who had need for that grant found themselves excluded from the opportunity to gain a homes savings grant because of the very many discriminatory regulations that were put into effect in the life of the scheme. In the year 1971-72 - the last year for which records of its operation are available - 89,278 homes were built in Australia. I will readily admit that not all of those homes would be first homes being built by young married people. Taking into consideration that a great percentage of those homes would be in that category, I note with interest that only 38,674 people qualified for the benefits of the homes savings grants scheme in 1971-72. The cost of that scheme in 1971-72 was $16.9m. The benefits which we propose and which will be implemented by the introduction of the interest rebates for home owners, according to a very reliable estimate that I have been able to obtain, will be worth some $80m a year to young and old people alike who are paying off their first home. Those people will reap the benefits of this scheme. The recipients of the benefits will not be restricted, as so many were under the provisions of the scheme that this measure will replace. 1 wish to make a brief reference to one other very important matter that was mentioned by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. I refer to the provision of $3m during this financial year for grants to the States for a one-year program of traffic management and improvement at locations with poor accident records. These grants will go a long way towards overcoming one of the greatest problems that we face in the capital cities, namely the high death rate that grows year by year. Other attention has been given by the Government to that problem, as can be seen in the re-establishment of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety which operated in the last Parliament. My concern for road safety brings me to refer to the report issued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads that has been recently circulated to honourable members. It deals with the benefits of stopping freeway construction in State capital cities. It deals also with the benefits of allowing freeway construction that has been planned for the capital cities to be continued. It is interesting to note that it is suggested that one of the important advantages of urban freeways is in reducing accidents. The report which is entitled 'Report on the Effects of Stopping Freeway Construction in State Capital Cities', states: 
For example the planned opening of 8 miles of freeways in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth next year is expected to result in a saving of 10 to IS fatalities and ISO to 200 casualties in each year of their operation. 
Surely such a saving of human life warrants the expenditure on the construction of that 8 miles of freeways. I wish to impress this upon the Government: From my close study of the freeway position in the city in which I live - Brisbane  -  I suggest that it would be of great benefit to that city if the Government saw fit to allow the continuation of the planned freeway development in that city. At present, Brisbane needs the development of freeways perhaps much more than Sydney and Melbourne do. The freeways system in Brisbane virtually has only begun. 
A great deal of expenditure is planned for the Brisbane area in the next three to five years. Within the next 12 months it is intended to complete an additional one mile of freeway. Within the next 3 years it is the intention of the authorities to construct an additional 20.25 miles of freeway. These freeways in the Brisbane area will provide a great service to the people of the city and to the people of the adjoining areas. There is no doubt in my mind that there is every need to stop at this stage and to examine the feasibility of continuing freeway development. I might say at this stage that I sympathise completely with the people who are displaced by the development of freeways. Most of them are Labor Party supporters - the people in the more depressed areas closer to the inner city. These people in the past, to a great extent, have found that the compensation that they have been offered has been far from adequate. I would raise my voice in support of very adequate compensation for these people. I believe that the compensation should be more than the market value of their property to compensate them not only for having to replace their home in the new areas to which they must go but also for having to move out of the area in which they have been used to living and being forced to resettle in a new area. Whilst I have sympathy for these people, I believe that the immediate freeway development in Brisbane has been well planned. With only a small variation of the routes that are planned at present, it will provide a great benefit at a very reasonable cost in the future development of the city of Brisbane. Of course, to a great extent this is due- 
I have not any friend named Jo. The interjection reminds me of my good friend the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones, who, of course, would be recognised as one of the most able authorities in this nation on the development of cities. His guiding hand has been responsible for tempering and putting into a responsible form many of the decisions made in respect of the development of freeways in the Brisbane area. 
Finally, I refer to the lack of co-operation by Queensland in assisting the Government to implement the promise made by the Prime 
Minister in respect of the establishment of land development commissions in the various States. The Government would be more inclined to deal with the Minister for Lands in Queensland, the Honourable Wally Rae, than with the Premier of that State. If the Premier had stayed overseas a little longer when he was on his recent venture, the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and  Mr Rae  certainly would have had an opportunity to develop a scheme for providing large areas of land in Brisbane, as they announced at a joint Press conference. But, of course, their plans were sabotaged by  Mr Jo  Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, when he came back on to the scene. Of urgent necessity in the city of Brisbane is the implementation of that section of the Government's policy. At the moment prices of land in Brisbane are skyrocketing. I hope in the near future to have an opportunity to say more about that. Perhaps I will be able to do so during consideration of the Department of Housing estimates. Suffice it to say at this moment that it is about time the Government of Queensland realised the genuineness of the provisions of the scheme proposed by this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration been drawn to the statement made at the annual meeting of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on 1,1 September by the company's  chairman, Sir Ian  McLennan in which he said that the Federal Government had decided to allow BHP to resume its overseas recruiting campaign? I refer the Minister to a statement which he made on 22 May in which he said that the needs that had been put forward by such companies as BHP had been referred for consideration as part of the recommendations being formulated by the Immigration Planning Council on the level of intake for next year. I refer also to the following statement which the Minister made on 12 August:  _ It is important to realise that the nation's migration program is not just a means of adding to the work force. 
In that statement he also said: 
Migrants are not available to be ordered around like shock troops to man the front lines of industry. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  used the opportunity of the adjournment debate tonight to make such ยป vicious attack on the members of the trade union movement currently engaged in an industrial dispute in the special hospitals in Brisbane. It ill behoves him, but perhaps we might excuse his performance this evening and put it down to his inexperience in this House, to the fact that he has not been here very long, and hope that he will learn better as time goes on. One thing that is sure is that nothing he has said this evening can serve any purpose in the most important consideration concerning that dispute, that is the settlement of that dispute. My colleague, the Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  has offered his services to mediate in this dispute, should he be called upon. He is eager and ready to carry out the task of endeavouring to settle the dispute, should he be asked. Naturally, he will not do as some people are prepared to do, namely, butt into somebody else's business. However, he has indicated that he is prepared to try to settle the dispute if he is asked to do so. 
Let me remind the honourable member for Darling Downs that not one member of the union involved in the dispute is earning money while he is out on strike. It is money out of the pocket of the worker. What consideration does he give to that when he gets up on an occasion such as this and makes groundless accusations against people involved in a dispute? If the honourable member for Darling Downs is such a wonderful person and knows such a great deal about the dispute, his time would be better spent in assisting Industrial Commissioner Gibson in his efforts to try to settle the dispute, rather than making such an attack this evening on people involved in the dispute. 
This evening I wish to speak principally about something that has been brought to my attention in recent days. I refer to the new found interests of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in Eagle Farm airport. I see the honourable member for Griffith sitting in the House this evening. If it is his intention to speak again on this matter tonight in the adjournment debate, he will be making his third speech on the subject in just on a week. That is more speeches on the subject than he made on this issue in the entire previous time that he has been in this Parliament. I have consulted the Hansard records and have come up with some startling facts relating to the great interest the honourable member showed in the problems of Eagle Farm airport in the first 6 years that he was inflicted on this Parliament and on the electors of Griffith. I should like to quote this record to honourable members. 
The first speech of the honourable member for Griffith on this issue was made some 3 years after he became the honourable member for Griffith. It was made on 11 March 1970 and it was the first time he got on his feet and showed any concern for the victims of noise in his electorate for whom he now cries so loudly. The speech was made on the occasion of the reappointment of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise.  His  grave concern for the electors of Griffith was shown at this time when he made a statement in the House in which he really attacked the then Minister for Civil Aviation for his inactivity. He said: 
I ask the Minister to give an' assurance that the Committee's findings will be taken seriously by the Government. 
That is really going to town on the Minister. Twelve months later, he was again stirred to make some effort on behalf of the people of his electorate and the people of Brisbane who were suffering through the inactivity over so many years of the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, and on 18 March 1971 he spoke on the adjournment and stated: 
All honourable members will know that ever since I arrived in this House I have been a strong advocate of the cause for peace for the constituents residing in my electorate and those who have been subjected over the years to the increasing noise problem. 
He was a strong advocate but also a very silent one until that time. He continued to make a great effort to impress upon his Government the urgency of the task before it and about which it had been making excuses for so many years, and these were his words to spur on the then Government to greater efforts: 
Today I am advocating that something be done quickly and that 1978 be the date for the building of a second airport in Brisbane. 
He was talking about a second airport and the Government was not even able to do anything about the one that was already there. The honourable member for Griffith went on to talk about the great efforts his colleague, the previous member for Lilley had made and said:   . . the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  has quietly but positively worked towards the solution of the problem of the Brisbane airport. 
The then honourable member for Lilley certainly must have worked very quietly towards it because we never heard very much from that gentleman except words of praise for his friends in the Democratic Labor Party. The honourable member for Griffith went on during his speech on the adjournment on 18 March 1971 to refer to a Press statement. It is probably as well that I explain to honourable members how he came to make this statement to which I am about to refer. The Press statement made mention of noise in the Ascot-Hamilton area. The honourable member for Griffith said: 
I would hate it to be thought that reference has been made to the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley in this Press statement because he has worked harder than I and no mention has been made of my electorate because of my tardiness. 
If the cap fits, wear it. The second speech that the honourable member for Griffith made and which I have just quoted was made on 1 8 March 1971. He had been a member of this House since the 1966 elections. That was the extent of his interest in Eagle Farm airport during the whole of the 6 years he spent sitting on the back benches in support of a government that did nothing until just before the last election. A Press statement referred to the report that was tabled in March 1972. 
At that stage, the Government announced for about the fourth time that plans had been prepared and activity was to commence at Eagle Farm airport. Such was that activity that he was able to refer to it in the third speech that he made, on 12 September 1973, when he said that 5 years had almost passed and the new Government had done nothing towards the planning of Eagle Farm Airport. 
I accept that. It was not intentional that I should have misquoted the honourable member. I am quoting from his speech. I accept, as the honourable member says, that he was referring to a speech made by  Sir Donald  Anderson. But in that speech he referred to the inactivity of the present Government and certainly made no reference to the inactivity of the previous Government. But of course he woke up to himself in the last speech that he made prior to yesterday evening, on 13 September. He said:  1 repeat my comments last night when I referred to the Coombs report which clearly outlined that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had intentions ... of continuing, moving along the road of speeding up the building of the Brisbane airport. 
That was the Government that he was proud, pleased or prepared to sit behind and support in the. efforts it made, and those efforts it made, and those efforts amounted to nothing over the years it was in office as far as the Brisbane airport was concerned. In a few moments my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley, will be able to outline very clearly the activity of this Government in the short time that it has had the responsibility for the rebuilding of Eagle Farm Airport. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has his attention been drawn to reports last weekend and during the previous week that the Lynfield private nursing home at Wynnum, in my electorate, which provides accommodation for some 18 patients, is to be closed next month by the Federal Government? Is this report correct?If so, why has the Government decided to close the home? Further, can the Minister give the House any information on the plan, which he put recently to the Queensland Government, to provide alternative accommodation for patients affected by nursing home closures? 
And a cellar, as the Minister reminds me. It is not good enough for members of the previous Government to stand up and say: 'We introduced a scheme.  This  Government is only adding to it.' The previous Government certainly  introduced  a scheme. The previous Government certainly recognised, reluctantly, some responsibility for the education of migrant children lacking knowledge of the English language. But- ft is not good enough for the previous Government to do as it did, to introduce and  implement a half-baked scheme, as the previous- scheme was. This amending legislation will tidy, up the problems that have been revealed by the task forces inquiring into migrant education in the various States. 
This afternoon the honourable member for Warringah also referred to the aspect of preschool education. This was mentioned, in the Migrant Task Force report prepared in Queensland under the chairmanship of my colleague the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  I refer this report, so well prepared, to honourable members. Time will not permit me this evening to quote from it to any great extent or even to refer to it, .but I certainly suggest to honourable members who have a copy of it to read through it because it is a typical indication of how the education of migrant children is struggling for survival in various areas of Queensland! From what I have seen in the reports of task forces in the other States, this is typical of 'the situation in those States. " ' " ' 
This legislation is very timely. It is another indication of the concern that the Minister has shown for the responsibilities of his portfolio. It is an indication of the attitude that has been adopted generally by this Government in regard to migrant welfare. It has moved in various ways to tidy up the discriminatory practices of the previous Government. The resistance of members of this Parliament in the Senate, aided and abetted here by some of the ultra-conservatives who are still living in the last century, has meant that the people who look forward so much to the benefits of the implementation of the Government's reforms must in some instances wait a while longer to receive those benefits. In this instance, of course, they need not wait. These demountable class rooms are to be made available. The grant of money is there. It is a very urgent measure and the class rooms will be proceeded with immediately.  
Finally I want to congratulate the Minister on one other course of action which he indicated recently that it was his intention to implement. It was disclosed to the House recently in reply to a question that I asked him in regard to the rigid system and methodology, of teaching that had been used for English language training for migrant children and for adult migrants over a long period of time. The system was introduced some 25 years ago and, like so many other things, had just been carried on by the previous Government. It had not been reviewed. It had not been updated. But this Minister is moving to update that scheme. He indicated to me in answer to my question that he is investigating and giving consideration to bringing people to Australia and awarding fellowships to teachers who speak English who would come here from some of the major countries from which we draw our migrants and that these people would be fitted into the Australian schools system. They would have a background of familiarity with the life in the source countries of migration. They would come here with a knowledge of the English language and they would be able to combine their talents to the great benefit of the migrant children concentrated in many of the schools, in the inner city areas particularly, of our major capital cities. I congratulate the Minister on that move. 
The introduction of these teachers into the schools will be of added benefit to the children when they have their opportunity in the near future to enjoy the benefits of these temporary class rooms that it is the intention to provide under this legislation. Once again I must say that it is important that we continue to develop advances in these schemes. I have been critical of the previous Government for failing to provide these class rooms when the legislation was introduced. However, giving credit where credit is due, I compliment the previous Government - perhaps belatedly - for the fact that in 1971 it became aware of the need for the provision of teachers and for the provision of finance for the instruction of migrant children. I also congratulate the Minister for adding this very worthwhile implementation to that scheme. I support the Bill and look forward to its receiving the unanimous endorsement of all members of this House. 
 I take the opportunity this morning to refer to a matter which has been of grave concern to me in recent weeks and which I am sure has concerned equally other members of this House. I refer to the problem, particularly in the Brisbane area, of the forced closure of a number of private nursing homes. I took the opportunity recently to raise this matter during question time when I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to clarify the situation in regard to Press publicity that was being given at that time to the closure of the Lynfield private nursing home at Wynnum in my electorate. The publicity in the Press was a reflection on the Minister and on this Government in that it suggested that because of the actions of this Government these nursing homes were closing. The Minister in answer to my question, as I expected he would be able to do, exposed the true reason for these closures. The reason was adverse fire brigade reports over a number of years in regard to numerous nursing homes, most of which were of timber construction. Most of the buildings originally had been used as private dwellings and had been converted over a period of time to accommodate the aged 'and infirm. Many of the buildings had been enlarged with timber additions. The majority of those buildings were never at any time intended to be used for this type of accommodation. 
The Minister was able to show that fire brigade reports which were presented, in some instances as far back as 3 years, advised the State Government of Queensland that many nursing homes were high fire risks and consequently required fire prevention devices to be installed in them. The owners of the homes were notified that the State Government would require them to commence operations for rebuilding or face closure within a period of 3 years. As the Minister explained to me and to the House, the reason why these homes are now closing is that for various reasons the owners have decided not to replace the existing building in order to provide adequate accommodation. Instead of rebuilding they have decided to close. The owners of many of these premises began by establishing nursing homes to care for a few people and gradually enlarged them to increase the number that they could accommodate. They did this because of their concern for the aged people who had nowhere else to go. 
The position in Queensland is that not since 'the war has the Queensland Government provided accommodation of this kind. This applies to the Labor governments that were in power in that State for a number of years and also in recent years, to the Country Party-Liberal Party Government. Since the transfer of the people from Dunwich on Stradbroke Island to the Eventide home at Sandgate in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  no action was taken until in recent months a new home was constructed at Wynnum West, which is in my electorate. But over that period those governments, and the Federal Government also over a number of years, shirked their responsibilities in regard to providing accommodation for aged people. In many instances this responsibility has been taken up by nursing sisters who were prepared to establish small homes to accommodate these people and to provide the care and attention that they required but which the Federal and State governments had refused to provide. Recently the Federal Government saw a need to provide some financial assistance to nursing homes by way of subsidies and was forced to do this because of public opinion. But now the profiteers have moved into the nursing home business. Many of the new ones which have been built in Brisbane in recent years have been constructed by companies, for the most part representing doctors in various areas who have formed themselves into groups. Their interest in establishing nursing homes certainly is not based on concern that they have for the people. Rather, they see it as a golden opportunity to exploit the people and to make a profit for themselves. 
I want now to refer again to the question I asked of the Minister for Social Security. My purpose in raising this matter this morning is to remind the House that once again the Queensland Government has failed to respond to the initiative of the Australian Government, as has happened on other occasions. This Government has offered assistance to the Queensland Government in an attempt to overcome the difficulties which both should face and for which both should be equally responsible. In July the Minister for Social Security offered the Queensland Minister for Health a government grant amounting to $1.2m on a $1 for $1 basis. If that offer is taken up it will result in $2. 4m being available immediately for the purchase of suitable accommodation or for the construction immediately of alternative accommodation for those people who are faced with the problem of finding other accommodation because the homes in which they are accommodated at present are closing. I refer, for instance, to the Lynfield convalescent home which is to be closed and the closure a few weeks ago of the Bayview convalescent home at Wellington Point also in my electorate. Other nursing homes in the Brisbane area will close in the next few months. 
It was disclosed by the Minister for Social Security a couple of months ago 'that some 400 patients in homes are in need of alternative accommodation and will have to find it within the next 12 to 18 months due to the failure of the State Government to provide alternative accommodation. I say that it is the failure of the State Government to provide this alternative accommodation because it was on behalf of a State Government authority that the fire brigade reports were prepared and also because the State Government has been responsible for the issue of licences to these homes to enable them to operate as nursing homes. Surely the State Government cannot shirk its responsibility to provide accommodation for these people and force them to continue to live in nursing homes which, as I am sure all honourable members will agree, are not adequate for them. Because they are high fire risks they must be replaced as a matter of urgency. 
The initiative was taken by this Government through the announcement of the Minister late in July when he offered a grant of $1.2m to the Queensland Government. I understand that so far the Queensland Government has failed to respond to that offer. The Queensland Minister for Health continues to ignore the danger to these people. Once again he is playing politics. He does not see the value of the offer which has been made by this Government. He has not been prepared to show that he is concerned for the welfare of these people. He has ignored the offer by the Federal Government. I appeal to him now, before more nursing homes are forced to close, to accept this offer of financial assistance before it is too late. One can well appreciate the grave problems faced by people who have become used to the life they lead in these homes when they or their relatives, if they are fortunate enough to have relatives to assist them in coping with their problems, suddenly find that they are forced to seek alternative accommodation. I appeal to the State Minister for Health to cast aside the political considerations which so far have caused him to reject or refuse to accept the offer of this Government and to see the offer for what it is worth. I appeal to him to cooperate with this Government to provide the $1.2m from State Government finances and to move quickly to secure adequate alternative accommodation for these poor unfortunate people whom today he continues to ignore. He is shirking his responsibility in this matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property and follows a question asked of him last week by my colleague the honourable member for Robertson. In his reply the Minister expressed concern at the reported donation of up to Sim to Opposition party funds and said that the purpose of it appeared to be to discredit the Minister for Minerals and Energy and to defeat this Government. The Minister said that he would consider the holding of a royal commission into these allegations. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Australian Country Party recently purchased a Canberra property for a reported sum of $187,000? Is the Minister in a position to state whether the purpose for which this property was purchased has any connection with the reports of multi-national corporations contributing to Opposition party funds? 
I must say at the outset that the one impression I am sure we in this chamber and the people in the gallery are getting today is that every member speaks in harmony about the urgency of this project for a new and permanent parliament house. But the urgency with which we regard the project is something that appears to have been common among members for many years past. Members of previous Parliaments have regarded the need for a new building with a great sense of urgency, but no government or no parliament has been prepared to take the initial steps towards that accomplishment. I congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for producing a feasibility study. I was impressed by it when I received it. At that stage I believed that it offered the only reasonable alternative to proceeding immediately with this important building. But since then, I have had an opportunity to consider the question further and to some extent I have been influenced by the excellence of the display that the Minister has arranged in Kings Hall. I have come back to my original opinion and again confirm that I am a supporter of the Capital Hill site. 
The display indicates that should we decide to adopt the method of construction as suggested as the most reasonable alternative by the Minister - that is, to continue using this building while the construction of a new building proceeds - Camp Hill is the appropriate site, but in my opinion it is not the ideal site. If the Camp Hill site is decided on I do not believe that the job will be completed any more than a year or two earlier than if the building were erected on some other site. Therefore, I opt for the Capital Hill site. In returning to that opinion- I must say that I agree with some of the thoughts that were put forward by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I believe that should we not use the Capital Hill site we can never be sure that in the future that site will not be taken and used for some alternative project. 
In dwelling on the need for a new building it is important to consider whether, in fact, as was suggested by the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, the actual planning and construction of the building will take as long as 10 years. I believe that we have architects, engineers, consultants and contractors of high calibre in Australia, who could undertake this project and build it in a maximum time of 8 years. I have spoken to people who are experienced in major construction jobs and from the experience that I have accumulated over the years I will not accept as fact that it is a 10- year project. I think that some of the times suggested in the schedule presented in the report of the Joint Select Committee could be shortened to the extent that we could have a completed building on Capital Hill within 8 years, should we now decide to proceed with it. For that reason and for other reasons that I have enumerated, I believe that the compromise of Camp Hill should not be accepted by honourable members. 
It has been suggested that one of the important steps that should be taken is the holding of a competition. Again, I believe that this is something with which we should dispense. We have reached the stage where we cannot afford to waste time. Honourable members have explained the inadequacies of the accommodation in this present temporary building. The stage has been reached where the considerations and concern of members are such that the competition should be dispensed with, and an architect should be selected by the Government. In recent years architects have been selected to prepare plans and designs for some of the future important buildings for Canberra. I do not know why an architect could not be selected to design this building and handle the project adequately, without a time wasting competition. 
One final point I make, which I think is important, is that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and others have suggested that this is not the time to be considering alternative sites but that the time for such consideration should be when the future debate takes place. This, we hope, will result from the carrying of this motion today. In supporting the original proposition put forward by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I remind honourable members that the suggestion made by the honourable member for Isaacs and others - namely, that we will have an opportunity to debate this matter during a joint meeting - in fact may not eventuate. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to a resolution that was passed by the Senate and transmitted to this House on, according to a notice I received, 6 May 1971. In its principal paragraph that resolution contains the same proposal as has been put forward by the honourable member for Corio; that is, that a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of the Parliament be held. But paragraph 3 of the resolution carried by the Senate goes on to say that at such a joint meeting there should be no debate on the subject matter of the alternative sites and that the question should be decided by a majority of votes. The senators apparently are quite satisfied that they have had ample opportunity to consider the alternatives proposed and have made up their minds that they would like to join with us in determining the opinion of all members of both Houses. The senators also are firm in their opinion that there should be no further debate. I believe that that is a matter which should be considered very closely by you,  Mr Speaker,  and the  President  of the Senate during your negotiations. I certainly would not like to see honourable members, on the occasion we meet, as I hope we will, with the Senate, denied the opportunity to debate this important matter of where the new and permanent parliament house will be constructed. 
Let me repeat my concern for the situation that exists in this place at present with regard to the accommodation available to honourable members. Let me reiterate that on so many occasions in the past concern about it has been expressed by members of the various parties. It was brought to my attention just a short while ago that possibly the first reference to the construction of a permanent building was made as long ago as 1922. The construction of a permanent building was considered by the Public Works Committee in 1922, before this building was completed. So, even before members of Parliament moved into this building from Melbourne, the subject of the construction of a new and permanent parliament house was being considered. I know that it was suggested in the early stages that the memorial to the nation's wartime achievements that exists on the other side of Lake Burley Griffin should be at one end of the complex and that a memorial to the nation's peacetime achievements should have the dominant position at the other end of the complex. That would be, of course, 
Capital Hill. Let me say that there could be no better memorial to the living achievements of the nation than the construction of a building to house the national Parliament on the dominant point of the national capital - that is, Capital Hill. 
One would be excused for believing as one listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  that he had been asleep for the last 23 years and that he has suddenly become awake, alive and concerned about the plight of Australians. About the only reasonable comment that he made in the course of his remarks was with respect to young Australians who today seek to own their own homes. What a shameful and shocking record the Government which he supported had over almost a quarter of a century because of its failure to carry out any semblance of a decent policy directed to providing housing at a reasonable rental or purchase price for young Australians. 
The legacy of despair that was left by the former Government to so many young couples and young people seeking housing is one of the reasons why in a time of prosperity in the building industry, as there has been in the term of office of this Government, every opportunity has been taken to catch up with the backlog. Those people who went out of office last December could have ensured that a great many more houses were constructed in their term of office if the 130,000 people whom they cast into the unemployment ranks had been used in the building industry to provide, additional housing. Yet now we hear accusations made about all the terrible things that this Government has done to cause a shortage of building materials and a shortage of labour. One would be led to believe by the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs that the cause of all the problems of the building industry should be laid at the feet of this Government and its policies, including the responsible attitude that it has taken to the Australian immigration scheme which a former Labor Government introduced in the early years after World War II. 
No doubt exists that the problems that remain for us in the building industry as a legacy from the previous Government are similar to the problems that we have been left in a great variety of different industries which are important in the economy of this nation. It is only the responsible attitude of this Government in tackling these problems that will overcome them and provide a better way of life for Australians whether they be young or old Australians, they can be reassured that, under this Government, their problems, such as the lack of housing, will be tackled in a responsible manner and will not be treated in the irresponsible fashion adopted by the previous Government, which, as I said, for almost a quarter of a century failed to meet the needs and requirements of Australians who sought housing. 
I wish to direct my remarks now to the responsibilities of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I refer to that section of his portfolio which deals with the provision of the office accommodation for Commonwealth departments. I noted his remarks in the Press statement he issued at the opening of the new Australian Government offices in Cairns on 27 October. He said that that excellent building was designed by the Australian Department of Works to the requirements of the Department of Services and Property, that it would provide about 20,000 square feet of office space and that the overall cost was approximately $775,000. He referred to the policy of the Australian Government to continue its efforts to provide accommodation for Australian Government departments. He said that accommodation would be provided in buildings constructed on land owned by the Australian Government or in office blocks that would be purchased by the Australian Government for the purpose of accommodating the various Government departments. 
Earlier this year I was present at the opening of a very fine complex of offices in Brisbane which cost approximately $9m and which will house about 1,600 public servants. I refer to the new Australian Government centre at the corner of Ann and Creek Streets in Brisbane. The great saving to the Australian taxpayer that will result from the Government's policy can be seen from the fact that $32m was spent last year in renting the office space used by the various Government departments throughout Australia. The extraordinarily high sum of $11,767,000 was spent in New South Wales last year and of this amount $1 1,486,000 was spent in Sydney alone. The next highest expenditure of $9,305,000 was incurred in Victoria. An amount of more than $32. 5m was spent on the rental and leasing of office accommodation throughout the nation. Even in Canberra an amount of $3,566,000 was spent on renting office accommodation. 
The practice of the previous Government was to allow such organisations as John McEwen House Pty Ltd to build office accommodation which was suitable for Government departments to lease from the constructing company. The many friends of the previous Government are listed in an answer to a question asked by  Senator Gietzelt  and answered by  Senator Willesee  on 6 June. John McEwen House Pty Ltd is listed as one of the companies to which this Government is paying rent for office space in Canberra. Other companies such as the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the Australian-New Zealand Bank Ltd, the City Mutual Life Assurance Society, the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd and Kalamazoo (Aus.) Ltd are listed. These companies are included among the 200-odd companies throughout Australia that are reaping the benefits of the short-sighted policies of the previous Government in respect of the provision of office accommodation for Government departments. 
I congratulate the Minister for Services and Property for the policy that he and the Government have adopted. I congratulate also  Senator Cavanagh  for the outspokenness of his remarks earlier this year, when he made it clear that he would conduct a survey to learn the position. Of course, the position has been revealed in the figures which I have just cited. I congratulate the Minister for Services and Property for his efforts to concentrate on the provision of Australian Government accommodation in buildings owned by this Government so that the drain on the taxpayers money - obviously, $32m was wastefully spent last year - will become a thing of the past, and this money will not be directed at filling the coffers of the companies which have owned the buildings and in some instances completely paying off the mortgages that were established to provide the accommodation. The accommodation was provided supposedly for the companies themselves but in most instances only a small amount of accommodation was for the companies' own use. These companies provided this accommodation safe in the knowledge that they had the sure tenancy of a friendly and favourable Government. I hope one day that the true story concerning the construction of John McEwen House and how the Country Party financed it from the Australian taxpayers' funds will be revealed. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  is anxiously waiting to get to his feet. Perhaps he will reveal to the people a few of these previously undisclosed facts. The people of Australia will then know some of the tricks that the previous coalition Government got up to in the provision of accommodation for Government departments. It was for the benefit of their own political parties. 
I want to take the time of the Committee again for just a few seconds. I think that it is appropriate, following the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  for me as a Government supporter, although I have not had the length of experience that the honourable member has had either in parliamentary terms or iri postal vote organisation terms, to say that the Government is very conscious of the rackets and rorts that are being worked in postal vote collection, Of course, over the years these have been accentuated, developed and perfected under the Liberal-Country Party governments. I am sure that, whilst this practice was allowed to go on under those governments, it will not be allowed to go on under this Government. I know that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  whose responsibility it is to handle electoral matters for this Government, is working on ways and means of overcoming these rackets and the disgraceful tactics that have been used in the past. I must say that I agree with the honourable member for Griffith when he says that people from all political parties have been guilty. That is the one point I really wanted to make. 
I did not like the honourable member's holier than thou' attitude nor particularly did I like his statement that his organisation had not been guilty of any of these breaches and abuses of postal vote organisation during an election campaign. I take this opportunity of reminding him of completed postal vote application forms with the names and addresses filled in that have been sent out by his organisation together with an accompanying letter, not signed by the honourable member naturally because he would not breach the Electoral Act, but signed by a responsible officer, usually his campaign director - and posted to people throughout the electorate on the basis of the the card index system of postal votes for the previous election that he keeps. Yet he stands here today and suggests that everyone but himself is guilty. So I take this opportunity of reminding the honourable member for Griffith of that one fact. I have had copies of these completed postal vote application forms which were given to me by people in his electorate who had received them from him. To fool the people concerned - very often they are aged and infirm people who are put on the so-called postal vote list - the form has on the front of it the stamp of the divisional returning officer, copied by the political party. In this instance of course I refer to the Liberal Party. In this is an official document from the divisional returning officer. 
Let me go further and remind the honourable member for Griffith of the blatant misuse of the privilege of allowing people to vote by post that was carried out during the last election campaign by his friend, the dishonourable - I mean the honourable - member for Lilley in the days of the last Parliament, Kevin Cairns, the great architect of virtue, the Democratic Labor Party member of the last Parliament who sat in this chamber. He abused every privilege that he had, including using an employee of the divisional returning officer for Lilley - a poor unfortunate woman whom he got hold of and on whom he used his vicious influence to get her to send out propaganda for him and to send out together with the ballot papers for the postal vote applicant a how-to-vote card for Kevin Cairns, the Liberal candidate for Lilley. Who bore the brunt of the responsibility for what happened? 
Not Kevin Cairns. He knew nothing about it. He would not be a party to any malpractices in postal vote collections! No. He left it to the poor unfortunate woman who worked in the electoral office to bear the responsibility for actions taken on his behalf and on behalf of his organisation. They were the parties truly responsible for such a vicious and malicious political act. Can a sitting member for Parliament do anything lower than to send out howtovote cards through an electoral office in order to try to save one's political hide? 
I will support any call that is honestly and sincerely made for the clearing up of the postal vote rackets and rorts that are carried out at present and have been carried out for many years in the past. I condemn the previous Government for failing to take action to clear them up. I am certain that I can pledge, on behalf of the Minister for Services and Property, that the Government will carry out the action necessary to clean up the disgraceful practices that have been followed over the years and which have been sanctioned, supported and, in some instances, sponsored by the political students of the Liberal Party who have stood for and in some cases tried to hold seats. 
Quite often these days it seems to fall to my misfortune to have to follow the clown - I mean the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He passed some remarks this evening about how he threatened the former Postmaster-General and told him that he could not count on his support if he continued to raise the postal charges. I will have a few words to say about that later on. I remind the honourable member for Griffith that he is lucky that he is on that side of the chamber and not on this side, because if we had the misfortune of having a continuation of the previous style of government he would have had the avertion laid on the line and he would have been forced to prove whether his deeds were as good as his words. I remind honourable members of what the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said when he introduced the documents relating to postal charges at Budget time this year. I quote from the 'Post Office Prospects and Capital Program 1973-74'. He stated: 
It has been decided that the drain on taxpayers and  other Post Office customers in subsidising a number of concessional and uneconomic services could be reduced substantially. The priorities which must be given to other Government programs affecting social welfare, education, and urban development, as well as the heavy demands for Post Office, services, especially in and near the metropolitan areas of the capital cities, are such that there must be a substantial redistribution of and increase in both the income and expenditure of the Post Office. Because these demands for service are urgent, these changes must be made quickly. 
I congratulate the Postmaster-General for saying that. I congratulate him for realising the urgency of these demands in the metropolitan areas of the capital cities. Quite frankly, one of the gravest problems I face and one of the most extensive problems I face throughout my electorate- 
That has not worried me one bit. The most extensive problem I have faced in the last couple of years has been the irresponsible attitude of the previous 
PostmasterGeneral in respect of the metropolitan areas where people have been demanding telephones and finding that their demands are not being met. Let me refer to the introductory remarks of the PostmasterGeneral when he spoke of the commission of inquiry that he set up earlier this year. Before the honourable member for Griffith leaves the chamber I suggest that he listens to this. He will hear what his Government had in store for the country if it had remained in power. A Press release issued by the Postmaster General stated: 

 Mr Bowen said that the previous Government proposed in its plan to increase postal charges and telephone charges by a further 20 per cent to 25 per cent in 1974 . . . Elaborating on the uneconomic service,  Mr Bowen  said that in 1970 the then Government recklessly adopted a policy of providing uneconomic telephone services. 
It is that policy that has caused this problem in my electorate and in other electorates on the fringes of metropolitan areas. The article continued: 
The Cabinet of the day was warned that unless special Treasury resources were provided for this purpose there would be most severe repercussions in all activities of the Post Office. 
Earlier tonight I heard the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  talking about rural telephone services. It is well that he paid some attention to the brainchild of the Australian Country Party that it fostered and foisted on the last Government and forced the Liberal Party to accept. How well did his electorate do out of this service that the last Government provided, to the detriment of the metropolitan telephone service for which people are waiting 2 or more years to have connected, under the plans put forward by the previous Government? 
At Miamba near Miles in the Maranoa electorate, an automatic exchange was established for 1 1 new applicants and a total of 52 subscribers at a cost of $216,000. The revenue was estimated at $8,000 or less than 4 per cent, and this would not even meet the interest charges on the capital, let alone its operating costs. At Taroom, in the same electorate, it will cost in excess of $200,000 for 19 subscribers and 18 applicants, with a revenue return of approximately2ยฝ per cent without operating costs. The Government does not deny that these people should receive telephones. The PostmasterGeneral has made that plain. But what he has made clear is the totally irresponsible and dishonest policy that was maintained by the previous Government because it was not game to let the taxpayers know that they were paying for these things. They should have been provided for out of money that should be available for people now being denied their telephones in the metropolitan areas. 
I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral for tackling this problem which hundreds of people in my electorate face, in finding that telephones that they should be able to have connected to their homes in metropolitan areas, just as easily as water or electricity services are connected, are not available. If honourable members want further proof that this is one of the reasons why the people in metropolitan and outer metropolitan fringe areas have found themselves without telephones, I will quote from a letter that 1 received from the Acting Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland. It was not sent to me during the short life of this Government but it was sent to me on 13 July 1972.  Mr Hosken  said in reply to some of the matters that I raised: 
The position is particularly acute in Queensland - 
He was talking about the lack of telephone services in my electorate -  in comparison to other States as we have had a relatively high level of demand for telephone service over a lengthy period. The recent legislation governing the provision of rural telephone services has also resulted in a huge departmental commitment in Queensland relative to most other States. 
There are the facts. That is the truth of the situation that has been revealed in figures which show that at 30 June deferred applications in Queensland numbered 6,415. Of course, these are only deferred applications where new lines and equipment are required. This was an increase from 3,734 in the 1971- 72 financial year. The estimated demand for telephone services in Queensland in 1972-73 where new lines and equipment were required was 41,000. The actual demand was 53,949. That was an increase of demand over estimated demand of more than 31 per cent. What do these people do? Their telephone services, as estimated in the figures given to the Parliament by the Postmaster General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  cost the Post Office some $1,600 to provide. 
Some of the telephone services in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  cost up to $10,000 to provide. A prominent official of the 
Country Party had a telephone connected - I do not know whether it was in the electorate of Maranoa, but it was certainly in Queensland - and it cost more than three times $10,000. That is the roguery that the previous Government got up to, conned by the rump party, the Country Party, that supported it. Hundreds of people on the fringes of the metropolitan area of Brisbane and throughout the areas of the capital cities and major cities and towns, particularly along the eastern coast of Australia, wait for their telephones. 
I believe that the urgent action which has been taken now by the Postmaster-General is very timely. I congratulate him on facing up to the responsibilities that the previous Government was either unable to face up to or unprepared to face up to because of its dependence upon the Country Party to keep it in office. I suggest that certain action in addition to what has been done can be taken to assist further people in the metropolitan area. One of the things which the PostmasterGeneral can do is take action - I hope he will - to contact local authorities where subdivisions are put on the market so that he can prevent the subdividers from hoodwinking the people into believing that a telephone service is available. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to a statement made in the Queensland Parliament by the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  in which, referring to information on the conversion of coal to oil, he said that the information sought by the planned joint study by Australia and Japan is already available in Queensland? He went on to refer to the major overseas companies that had expressed interest in the project and the sites that had been designated in Queensland. Will the Minister assure honourable members that the Government will take the necessary action to verify whether Queensland has the technological information? Will he also take steps to protect the interests of the Australian nation against any likely irresponsible decisions made by the Queensland Government to commit us to further economic strangleholds from overseas interests in view of the claim that Queensland already has obtained the information that the Minister is seeking? 
The Bill being considered by the House at the moment provides for allocations from the Australian Government to the States that are considered to be the less advantaged States of the Commonwealth - the mendicant States which, through the Commonwealth Grants Commission, make application to the Australian Government for additional finance to supplement their own budgets. It has always been the practice of the Australian Government to give finance to the States in accordance with the applications made to the Grants Commission. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned that this practice has been followed by various Australian governments since the introduction of this method of allocating money to the mendicant States - the smaller and more disadvantaged States. 
While I welcome the allocation to Queensland for which provision is being made in this Bill, I think it is appropriate that reference should be made to some of the underlying reasons why such a claim has to be made to the Commonwealth Grants Commission by Queensland. Queensland certainly is a disadvantaged State. It is disadvantaged in a major way by the very system of government that operates there. The greatest burden, the greatest disadvantage that Queensland bears in relation to its economy, in comparison with the other States, is that a bigoted and insular Country Party Premier controls the State electoral system. The corrupt electoral system and the rigged boundaries allow him to be the leader of the major party in the coalition government, although that party receives a minority of votes in elections. This contributes in no small way to the financial problems that exist in Queensland. 
I want to refer particularly to the failure of the Queensland Government to get the greatest financial advantage for that State from the royalties that it gains from the mining operations which are carried out in that State. The special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in 1972, which referred to the original application made by Queensland, on page 1 1 stated: 
The Commonwealth Treasury expressed a belief that the material presented in Queensland's submission concerning the 1971-72 budgets of Queensland and the standard States 'is not necessarily reliable as an overall guide to whether or not a special grant is justified- 
Nothing has been disclosed in subsequent reports. Certainly this 40th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission does not throw any more light on the reliability of Queensland's submissions. I submit that the reason for this is that Queensland's submissions seek to keep from the Grants Commission the truth of the situation that exists in that State, which was mentioned in the original report of the Grants Commission, namely, the fact that Queensland is not getting from mining royalties as much benefit for that State as it should be getting. The report from which I quoted earlier stated: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested- 
That was the Commonwealth Treasury under the former Liberal-Country Party Government that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
It certainly does make a low effort in this field. I refer to bauxite. Weipa bauxite attracts a royalty of 5c a ton for Queensland if it is processed locally. The royalty is doubled to 10c a ton if the bauxite is exported. In comparison to those figures, it is interesting to look at the situation in the Northern Territory. Bauxite from Gove attracts a royalty of 20c a ton if it is processed locally and a royalty of 30c a ton if it is exported. The royalty on bauxite exported from the Northern Territory is three times the royalty that the Queensland Government gains for the people of that State from bauxite exported from Weipa. 
One of the Queensland Government's most often used excuses for negotiating contracts with overseas developing companies and allowing them to get away with murder, as far as the low level of royalties is concerned, has always been that there is an offset advantage to the State by the rail freight charges that are made for the cartage of these minerals to the coast for export. But it is as well to remember that in respect of bauxite this advantage cannot be claimed. It is all very well to claim that this is so in respect of black coal. Although this claim, when it has been made in submissions to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, has not been totally refuted, it has been very seriously questioned. But there is no question at all in regard to bauxite because it is mined at Weipa in Queensland and it is exported from Weipa. The low effort that the Queensland Government is making in order to gain royalties from bauxite mined in Queensland is a disgraceful insult to the people of Queensland. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker,  before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking of the situation in Queensland in regard to bauxite royalties. I was about to cite figures relating to the Weipa project in that State. The Weipa project is the world's biggest bauxite deposit and is now being developed. The argument advanced is that the royalty level attracted that development. I should like to compare the low royalties coming from Weipa with those coming from the Gove deposits in the Northern Territory where the value of royalties per ton are more than 3 times those at Weipa. In 1970- 71 4.242 million tons of bauxite was extracted at Weipa, bringing in a return of $23.3m. The royalty payment received by the Queensland Government amounted to a paltry $412,443 or 1.8 per cent of the total revenue. That was the total gain to the Queensland people in 1970-71 from the development of the bauxite deposits at Weipa. The story gets even worse. In 1971-72 7.7 million tons of bauxite was extracted at Weipa for a return of $42,35m. The royalty payments received by the Queensland Government amounted to only $570,141. 
As production increases the percentage of the royalties paid does not increase but in fact shows a remarkable reduction from 1.8 per cent in 1970-71 to 1.35 per cent in 1971- 72. It is easy to see that if any real efforts were made by the Queensland Government for a proper return of royalties on that bauxite deposit, even without taking into consideration coal exports, there would not be a need for that State to go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The blame for the situation that exists in Queensland whereby it is able to claim to be a disadvantaged State lies clearly at the feet of its own government. It is to the disgrace of Opposition members who represent Queensland electorates that they support the actions of the Queensland Government because the greatest disadvantage to Queensland today is the Country Party leadership of the coalition in that State. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hallett)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It refers to the disastrous tornado which swept through Brisbane suburbs on the afternoon of Sunday, 4 November. Has the Prime Minister yet received any request from the Premier of Queensland for disaster relief? Can he say when that request was received? If, as I understand, it has been received only recently, will the Prime Minister assure honourable members that the Government will give urgent consideration to this request particularly because of the obvious disadvantage the delay has caused to the victims? 
The discussion of the matter of public importance that appeared on the notice paper today was, right from the start, badly conceived. It was badly worded. The debate from honourable members on the other side of the House with the facts that they have been able to advance in criticism of the standard of service being offered by the present Government and the Post Office has been equally badly put forward. The submissions made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  sounded more like something that he should have been putting to a royal commission on the Post Office than a debate on this issue this evening. It boils down to the fact that the Opposition is attempting to criticise the Government for the problems that exist in the Post Office with respect to Saturday closing. As my colleague the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  pointed out quite effectively, it is certain that the raising of this matter in the Parliament today has done nothing to contribute to the settling of the problem. The main thing with which the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the Australian Labor Party in general are concerned about is to see that the problems that have arisen over this industrial matter are solved as quickly as possible. 
I must say that the Minister has not spared himself in his efforts to overcome the current problems concerning the Saturday closing of official post offices. The Minister has been responsible for the administration of the Post Office. He has done everything possible to negotiate with the unions concerned and for the most part the dispute - if it may be referred to as a dispute - is well on the way to being settled to the satisfaction of the Government and to the satisfaction of the unions concerned. So the rather belated entrance of the Opposition here today to suggest some grey cloud hanging over the Post Office services at the moment due to the problem that arose recently can be seen by the general public, from the effectiveness of the answers given today by the Postmaster-General in particular, to be the malicious attempt that it is. 
It has been suggested that suddenly in December 1972 everything started to go wrong with Post Office services. The suggestion has been made by the Opposition that in the 12 months that this Government has been in office the Post Office suddenly has become a monster, that its operation has been fraught with industrial problems and that these things never occurred before. The general public is well aware that the monster to which the Opposition is referring was something of which the Labor Party was well aware before the present Government came into office. In fact, as long ago as the 1969 election  Senator Willesee,  . the Labor spokesman on the Postmaster-General's Department, advocated as the policy of the Labor Party the holding of an inquiry into the Post Office immediately it came into office. Of course, this opportunity has come our way. 
The present Postmaster-General quickly moved to implement that inquiry. He set up a royal commission to inquire into the problems of the Post Office when he became responsible for its administration. This inquiry is looking not at problems that have suddenly come to light overnight but that have existed for 23 years and have grown progressively worse because of the maladministration of the previous Government particularly during recent years when to some extent, I suppose due to the tiredness and the impending retirement of the Postmaster-General of that time, no efforts were made to make a business concern out of the Post Office. 
The statement that the present PostmasterGeneral made when establishing the inquiry into the Post Office revealed that the Government had plans to increase postal and telephone charges by a further 20 per cent to 25 per cent in 1974. Yet today we hear members of the Opposition state, on the basis of a confidential communication that passed between the Postmaster-General and the Secretary of the Australian Postal Workers Union which suggested that it may be necessary in certain circumstances to increase postal charges, that it is the intention of the Government to raise them. Members of the Opposition have suggested that this has been disclosed by the contents of the letter. But we have information that the Government that was in office until 1972 had planned to do just that - to increase substantially postal and telephone charges by 1974. We know that these matters were of particular concern to the Government of the time and were among the many reasons that influenced the Minister to move quickly to establish a royal commission. 
When announcing the establishment of the royal commission the Postmaster-General said that in 1970 the then Government recklessly adopted a policy providing uneconomic telephone services. The Cabinet of the day was warned that unless special Treasury resources were provided for this purpose there would be most severe repercussions in the activities of the Post Office. But the then Government went ahead and introduced these uneconomic services. The Government was dictated to by the sectional interests which supported the political parties that were represented in the coalition. 
If more time was available to me I could show some of the facts that we have available to us because they are now public knowledge. The present Government and Minister have been prepared to make these facts available to the public - facts that were hidden and secretly kept away from the glare of public attention because of the virtual dishonesty of the policy the previous Government put into force and followed over a number of years. It is because of the implementation of these policies that the service provided by the Post Office deteriorated to the extent that it has been necessary for the Government to move quickly to introduce a means of determining the future operations of the Post Office, and this was done by the establishment of a royal commission. The report of the royal commission will be presented shortly to the Parliament. This report will open a new era in Post Office and telecommunications administration. The recommendations of the report will help to overcome the problems that we inherited from the previous Government and which this Minister has very courageously and very capably endeavoured to deal with in the short time that he has been responsible for the administration of the Post Office. 
I would like to quote one glaring example of how the previous Government mishandled the finances of the Post Office. This example shows how that Government was dictated to by sectional interests and how it was prepared to look after the people who supported it and kept it in its position of political power. An automatic telephone exchange was installed in the Maranoa electorate for 11 new applicants and a total of 52 subscribers at a cost of $216,000. The revenue from the exchange was estimated at $8,000 a year which is less than 4 per cent of the total cost. This revenue, of course, would not even meet the interest charges on the capital let alone the maintenance and operating costs. This illustrates the dishonest attitude of the previous Government in its administration of the Post Office. 
We have seen the lie and the hypocrisy of the Opposition's challenge to this Government in suggesting that the industrial problems that have occurred in the Post Office are the responsibility of this Government. The industrial problems related to Saturday morning closing with which the Post Office is concerned at the moment are the outcome of a union principle that has operated for some years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to recent reports that Brisbane Catholic systemic schools are likely to increase their fees this year. I ask: Has the amount of the Australian Government grants to those schools been greatly increased as a result of legislation introduced by this Government and passed last year? If so, can the Minister explain how the amounts paid to each of those schools is determined and whether the Australian Government grant has any relationship to the suggested increase in fees? 
The matter of public importance that has been raised this afternoon is just as ridiculous as every other matter of public importance that 1 have heard the Opposition raise since it became the Opposition. The simple fact is that the Opposition has to learn that it will never get back into office by making ill-founded criticism of the policies of the party which is presently in office. It will have to learn that it must devise policies which will be attractive to the majority of the Australian people. It cannot hope to achieve office while it continues its present practice of making meaningless and ill-founded criticism of the progressive policies of the present Government. The introductory remarks which were made this afternoon by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his colleague the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  made it clear to me and I am sure to most thinking Australians that if both of these gentlemen were entrusted with  thz  responsibility of writing an immigration policy for the Liberal Party, each of them would produce a vastly different policy. I know which policy I would rather see appear as the Liberal Party policy, being closer to the Australian Labor Party's policy. Without seeking to embarrass the honourable member for Kooyong, I must say 1 am sure that his genuine ideas on non-discrimination would be much closer to the Australian Labor Party's policy than would the attitude and policies of the present Liberal Party spokesman on immigration, the honourable member for Wannon. 
I want to refer to some of the remarks which were made by the previous Opposition speakers, particularly by the honourable member for Wannon who showed his ignorance and confusion to such an extent that he did not even know that there was a hands-off policy between Canada and Australia in respect of assisted passages. That policy has been in existence for more than 20 years. This afternoon the honourable member for 
Wimmera  (Mr King)  and other members of the Country Party, including the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  got very upset when the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made remarks about the situation in Queensland today. Without accusing the honourable member for Maranoa of being a racist - lam sure he is not a racist - or the honourable member for Wimmera, who spoke on behalf of the Country Party, of being a racist, I must put it on the record that there is no doubt that basically the Country Party in Queensland is a racist Party. It has had racist policies for years. It could not get its members to hand out how-to-vote cards for  Senator Neville  Bonner at the last Senate election in Queensland, and on this occasion they are not prepared to run with him on the same ticket. 
The honourable member for Wimmera talked about a homogeneous population in Australia. He is 200 years out of date, because the Minister for Immigration has reminded me that there were more than 12 different nationalities in the First Fleet that came to Australia. If that is the progressive and enlightened policy of members of the Country Party, I am sure that they will have to do a lot more towards updating the policy before their Party will be considered as a real alternative to the present Government. I say quite clearly to the Opposition that it is entirely dishonest to claim that this Government has failed to inform the House adequately of changes in immigration policy. In my experience in this place I have never known honourable members opposite to be unable to get full details of Australian Labor Party policy. The policy is determined by our Federal Conferences. On numerous occasions - probably more frequently than happens with members of the Labor Party in this House -members of the Liberal Party and of the Country Party produce copies of our platform in the House. They did this particularly when they were in government. Following our Federal Conference in Surfers Paradise last year which, in many respects, updated our policy, honourable members opposite did not even have to wait for the official publication of our platform. The 'Bulletin', from which the honourable member for Wimmera quoted his speech this afternoon, produced the complete guide to Labor policies. When I tried to obtain another copy of that issue of the 'Bulletin' about a fortnight after it was published I found that it was out of print - no doubt due to the heavy buying by honorable members opposite so that they could have a copy of the Labor Party's policy in their hands as quickly as possible. 
The Labor Party's policy on immigration has received the attention of honourable members opposite ever since we came into office. I will say quite clearly today that the recent announcements by the Prime Minister in the Philippines and the recent decisions by the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Immigration to initiate conferences with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in order to discuss the qualifications of overseas tradesmen are progressive steps on which those Ministers should be congratulated, and it should not be suggested that suddenly, overnight, new Labor Party policies have been devised. They are simply an extension of the policy that we have stipulated clearly in our platform, namely, the avoidance of discrimination on any grounds of race or colour of skin or nationality. Truly, the Government has put that policy into effect since it came into office. The policy is clear and unambiguous. It is a policy that has been analysed and clearly understood by the Australian people. It is a policy on which this Government was endorsed in the 1972 election. 
Over a period of some years before our success in 1972, immigration in Australia had fallen into a state where successive Ministers for Immigration applied their own policies. The main policy on which they seemed to base the annual intake of migrants was to try to exceed the intake achieved by the preceding Minister. What sort of policy was that? For a period of 23 years the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government had control of Australia's immigration program. Over a period of 5 years almost 25 per cent of the immigra tion intake was a wastage to the population growth of the nation. The people coming here were so disenchanted with conditions under the then coalition Government that they stayed here only long enough to organise themselves to return to their countries of origin. When we came into office this was the situation that confronted us - a 25 per cent wastage. 
The Opposition today tries to argue that it initiated a policy of wiping out the old white Australia policy; that it initiated a policy of equal rights for allpeople to come to Australia. The facts show differently. It is only since this Government came into office that in the eyes of the world, more particularly in the eyes of the Asiatic nations, Australia has been genuinely regarded as a country which will accept people without discrimination and as equals. The triumphant visit abroad by the Minister for Immigration shortly after Labor came into office, followed more recently by the Prime Minister's trip abroad, did much to elevate Australia in the eyes of the Asiatic countries close to our borders. Those visits have done much to allay the fears that people had for so many years that they were not regarded as equals by Australians and that they were not welcome to our shores either as visitors or, more importantly, as immigrants. 
This Government and the Minister for Immigration, in particular, are to be congratulated not only by this nation but also by every decent, fair-minded human being because at last a credible and honest image has been established for Australia, particularly in the eyes of the Asiatic section of the world in which we live. It is terribly important for the future of this nation that Australia should be seen to accept these people as equals and not to persist with the sayings of the previous Government in falsely claiming that it had no policy of discrimination against these people. The effects of the immigration policy of the previous Government showed clearly that it did have such a policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The time for discussion of this matter has concluded. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it true, as alleged at the weekend, that there is difficulty in breaking down the figures for family reunion migrants and those arriving under the national need category because the biggest group of migrants arriving in Australia is completely uncontrolled, unselected and indeed not even interviewed, that is, migrants from Britain, Canada and New Zealand? If so, is this likely to mean that adequate planning will be impossible, with consequent hardship to the new arrivals and problems for the Australian community. 
I want to drawn to the attention of the House tonight, particularly to the attention of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  whom I thank for coming into the chamber, a matter concerning Fijians in Brisbane last weekend. The matter that I want to refer to is the dishonest ill-considered and ill-founded statements made by the Queensland Minister for Justice,  Mr Bill  Knox, at a Liberal Party conference held in my electorate last weekend. I rise to speak tonight not because of any desire to deal with  Mr Knox's  flights of fancy but because he is in control of and responsible for justice in Queensland. The first irresponsible statement that he made was that 30,000 illegal migrants had arrived in Australia under the easy visa system in the past 7 months. He went on to say that among these people who have come, here- 
If the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  were to control himself and hang around he might hear the answers to his questions. 
It is no small wonder that the honourable member for Griffith gets excited about and is ashamed of the irresponsible statements made by the Queensland Minister for Justice. I would be ashamed if that Minister were a member of my political Party, so I sympathise with the honourable member for Griffith. At the weekend) the Queensland Minister for Justice said that there have been a few racial problems. He was referring to the immigration policy of past years. He said that despite claims that the policy was racist and represented white Australia, the undeniable fact was that it was a policy that was in the country's best interests. So we know where  Mr Knox  stands. He stands for racial discrimination. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  We know where  Mr Knox  stands. He stands for racial discrimination. He stands for the policy of the past - the policy that judged a man on his complexion, on where he lived or on his beliefs. It was a notorious fact that for years under Liberal governments if persons wanted to come to Australia their right of entry into Australia depended on their racial origin, on a consideration of their colour as shown on black and white photographs they had taken of themselves, and on similar issues. Of course what upsets the Liberals today is that the Government has wiped out this policy of discrimination. We have wiped out considerations of the past that should stay in the past. 
Tonight I refer to the irresponsible statements of the Queensland Minister for Justice about the Fijians who were in Australia, who came here as visitors and who breached the terms and conditions of their entry.  Mr Knox,  speaking in my electorate, said that these people were ill-treated when they were taken into custody. He made many complaints without probably realising that for most of the time they were in custody they were his responsibility as they were being held in the Brisbane prison. I shall summarise some of his claims, bring them to the attention of the Minister for Immigration and ask him to give me and the House tonight the facts of this incident that took place in Brisbane last weekend.  Mr Knox  said that the people who were here illegally were picked up too early in the morning; that officers forced entry into their houses without search warrants; that on arrival in prison - a prison under the control of the Queensland Government - they were stripped naked, searched and forced to wear prison clothes. I would be interested to know whether this is the usual practice with prisoners on remand or prisoners being held in the remand section. He said that while in custody they were treated like animals. The only custody they were in that I know of was the custody of the Queensland prison authorities. 
He complained that they were locked up and denied the right to see anybody - any members of their families. He agrees with complaints made by spokesmen on behalf of the Fijians that they were starved for the 2 days they were held in custody and that there were inadequate toilet facilities. One spokesman suggested that there was one bucket to be shared by all 14 deportees being held in the prison. He said, of course, that the food could not be eaten, and  Mr Knox  agreed with this assessment of the conditions under which these people were held. 
I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the fact that such nightmare conditions exist in Queensland gaols. If these serious conditions to which the complaints relate do exist, will the Minister inform the House tonight of the investigations he has made? I am sure that he has made inquiries of the officers of his Department in Brisbane to ascertain whether these charges are responsible even in a small way. Otherwise, I would ask the Minister to give us here tonight the facts associated with this incident which occurred in Brisbane last weekend involving people who, before they came here, had given an undertaking that they would not work during their stay here, who had breached that undertaking, and who were given in a very humane way the opportunity to get back to their home country. 
This is surely a significant afternoon. We have heard honourable members from the Opposition one after the other knocking this very important project for Queensland. The contribution of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  was most significant because he was making what will probably be his last speech in this House. He was making his maiden speech as a member of the National Party. It was his second maiden speech in this House. He now represents not the multinational Party but the National Party from Queensland. I am afraid that I cannot congratulate him on his speech. It is a shame he used the opportunity to knock this important project for Queensland. 
I will not delay the House very long because the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has a very important matter to bring before the House. But I think it is important for me to make. a brief statement to counter some of the claims made by the Opposition members. They claimed that this was a political gimmick which was brought on because an election is pending. Let me quote from an article in the Brisbane Telegraph' of Wednesday, 22 October 1969 - 3 days before the Federal election of that year on Saturday 25 October. The article said: 
Plans at new airport nearly ready. Hie multi-million dollar plans for Brisbane airport were almost ready for submission to the Federal Government for approval, the Civil Aviation Minister,  Mr Swartz,  said today. 
That was on 22 October 1969. Have honourable members ever seen such blatant political gimmickry as they saw that day? That was typical of the last Government which, for 23 vears, did nothing tangible about overcoming the problems of airport development. If I had more time I would read the other cuttings I have here which show that it was just a continuation of the same progress. Promises and broken , promises were all the previous Government was prepared to do about the development of the Eagle Farm airport. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has been criticised for moving before the reports that his Department will be preparing for his consideration have been completed. The siting of this international terminal has been well explained by the Minister. The Building will be used for another purpose when the airport is re-sited. The Minister has explained to me that the work can proceed at this stage because the proposal has been the subject of a preliminary report, and it is not tied up at all in the ultimate report that is being prepared for the re-siting of the Eagle Farm airport. I say to honourable members opposite who suggest that the Govern- ment is short-cutting the Public Works Committee that the time for full consideration of all the ramifications of re-siting the Brisbane Airport will be when this report is completed and the time the development is to be commenced in the new area closer to the mouth of the river and on the shores of Moreton Bay. At this stage it is adjacent to the existing airport. The site will be almost ready for the construction of the building to proceed. The contract for the site filling as a preliminary part of the work can be let and the work can be under way before the election day so that the people of Brisbane will know at last that the pre-election promises about the Brisbane Airport will be achieved, that the pre-election promises by this Government about the Airport will proceed to the point of completion, not as happened on so many occasions with the last Government's pre-election promises for the development of the Brisbane Airport. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) agreed to: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has his attention been drawn to reports today which suggest that the arrival of more than 130 Spanish migrants in Brisbane has given rise to fears by State Labor Party leaders and trade union leaders that Australia's immigration policy will aggravate the local employment situation there? Can he reassure honourable members that there is no likelihood that the arrival of these Spanish migrants in Brisbane will lead to an aggravation of the unemployment situation in the Brisbane area? 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that a Queensland State Government spokesman has claimed that Queensland has had to 'go it alone' on the construction of accommodation units for pensioners because the Australian Government has refused to renew an agreement to provide $5m a year for this work? Can the Minister tell the House whether this agreement has been renewed and whether it will be altered in any way? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the 'problems that  Mrs Madonna  Weber, formerly Miss Madonna Schacht of Brisbane, is experiencing presently .in Austria and Germany in attempts to gain custody of her child? Has the Australian Government assisted  Mrs Weber  in her attempts to gain custody of her child? If so, what assistance has been provided? Further, will the Australian Government consider providing legal aid to  Mrs Weber  for the custody proceedings in which she is involved? Will the Prime Minister refute accusations that in respect of the provisions of assistance officers of the Australian Government have been unco-operative and dilatory? 
I am sure that all honourable members are appreciative of the fact that history is about to be created by the holding of a joint sitting of this Parliament for the first time since Federation and that the onerous duties of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  are probably more onerous at this time than they have been for any Minister for a long time. I take this opportunity to compliment the Minister for taking the trouble to come into this chamber this evening - to set the record straight and once and for all, I hope, to show to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  just how dishonourable an honourable member can become, particularly when he uses the privileges extended to him as a member of this Parliament to enable him to be free from being called to account as he would be if he were to make statements of a similar nature outside this Parliament. How more scandalously can a person abuse that privilege than to attack a poor unfortunate person who is employed in the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Brisbane and who has provided excellent service there for many senators and members of Parliament including, as the Minister said, the honourable member for Griffith himself. 
Reference has been made to the fact that some time ago the honourable member for Griffith dismissed his secretary in very strange and unusual circumstances. I do not question his right to do this. I maintain that it is the right of any member to hire and fire his secretarial staff as he sees fit. But due to the circumstances of the dismissal a cloud of concern hung over the whole of the officers in Brisbane for quite some time following her summary dismissal. I know the reason that was given for the dismissal and. as I have said, I do not question it. I think it is appropriate that all honourable members should know that this lady had, I understand, performed meritorious service for the honourable member over a great number of years. She was known to me, to all honourable members who are accommodated in the offices and to others who had moved about in the Brisbane political scene to be an active supporter of a political philosophy in which she believed, and that philosphy was the Liberal philosophy. I can recall, when I was active in Labor Party circles, particularly in the Moreton area, seeing the honourable member's ex-secretary working on polling booths for the Liberal Party. I am sure that the Party of her choice appreciated her work. 
But following her dismissal, was there any question of her ability to serve members of the Labor Party when they were in need of additional secretarial assistance? There was not, because I know that one Labor member of the House of Representatives and one Labor senator gave this person an opportunity to undertake work in their offices as a relief secretary. Both of these gentlemen told me afterwards that they had the highest regard for her integrity and ability. Here is an excellent example, of course, of the way that members of the Labor Party approach such a matter as this. Their approach is impartial. It is an excellent example of how tolerant and understanding Labor Party members are when they are offered the services of a competent secretary. 
I might also say for the record, without seeking to embarrass anyone concerned, that there were at least 2 other secretaries working in the offices in Brisbane who stood a very real chance of losing their employment as a result of the decisions of the electors of Australia in the recent elections. I know that my own efforts on behalf of one of the girls and the efforts of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  on behalf of both of the girls were used unsparingly to see that they were placed in suitable employment. Both of the girls worked for senators who belonged to parties other than the Labor Party. Our concern for the staff makes it even more obvious tonight that such an attack as was made last night by the honourable member for Griffith was dishonourable in the extreme- 
The attack was cowardly and dishonourable in the extreme. I hope that the honourable member will take the oppor tunity when he returns to Brisbane tomorrow to do the decent thing, if it is still possible for him to do so, and apologise to the person he scurrilously attacked under privilege in this chamber last night. 
The question of the allocation of offices, for which he wrongfully accused the Minister for Services and Property, was well known to all members at the time. Quite obviously, as has been said, no one raised his voice in objection to the fact that a certain senator was allocated the office in Brisbane that was previously occupied by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I detest and utterly deplore the actions of the honourable member for Griffith last night. He was quite wrong in suggesting that he has never abused parliamentary privilege. I heard him do so not only last night but on several other occasions. 
-This afternoon during this debate we have heard speakers from the Opposition side refer to the great esteem they have for the principle of one vote one value. But as speakers from this side of the House have often reminded the Opposition parties, so far only one member from that side had indicated that he is prepared to vote in accordance with the principles that he espouses in this chamber. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  made some very hurtful references to my colleague, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  and implied that he had no interest in the welfare of country people. Of course, it is well known, as he has often told us, that he was born at Currabubula and he has frequently made very affectionate references to cockies corner. It is well recognised that he has a sincere regard for people from country areas. The point made by the honourable member for Gippsland, that the redistribution that will follow the passing of this Bill will mean that the Australian Country Party will lose seats, is just an incidental effect of the legislation, but the legislation will reduce the imbalance of the electorates and will bring us closer to the ideal of electorates being equal. To criticise the Minister and to accuse him of" failing to show consideration for and interest in the rural sector of the community because of this fact is unfair in the extreme. 
We have heard a variety of explanations as to why this historic meeting is taking place today. On 2 occasions within 18 months the people of this nation have indicated their support for the policies of this Government and particularly for the Bill that we are now discussing because there can be no question that ample publicity was given to the fact that this Bill was rejected by the Senate on 2 occasions. The people supported the Government's policy on this redistribution and returned the Government to office. This is a Government which has been frustrated by the will of senators who claim that they have been chosen to represent the States in the Senate. This is a Government which in a short period of time between the 2 elections, has put through the largest number of Bills introduced in any one year; the largest number of Bills declared urgent in any one year; the largest number of Bills passed into law in any one year; the largest number of Constitution alteration Bills in any one year; the largest number of sitting hours in the last 60 years; the largest number of debates on the adjournment in any one year in the House of Representatives; the largest number of general business matters voted on in any one year; the largest number of petitions presented in any one year; the largest number of grievance day debates in any one year; and the list goes on and on. I could make reference also to the dynamic leadership of this Government and the leadership that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has shown this nation. 
The frustrations that have been forced on this Government have produced a situation today where it is necessary for the first time since Federation to hold a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament to ensure the passage of this legislation. There can be no doubt that since coming to office this Government has sought consistently to remove all forms of discrimination from our laws, whether it be discrimination against women, Aborigines, migrants or in the various other forms that it appears in our statutes. This Government, in a very forthright way, has acted to remove discrimination from our laws. The legislation that is before us seeks to remove possibly the worst form of discrimination that exists in the Federal electoral laws of this nation. The form of discrimination to which I refer allows over-representation to exist in this Parliament. I refer here to certain areas of the nation whose electorates are very heavily weighted. This Bill seeks to remove from our electoral laws this discrimination which has been tolerated and sponsored to a great extent by members from the other side of this chamber. 
The honourable member for Gippsland said during his speech that redistributions carried out from Federation up until the present time have been fair, honest and equitable. But let me remind honourable members and senators that  Mr McEwen,  when speaking as the Leader of the Australian Country Party following the introduction of the 1965 amendments to the electoral laws, said: 
There is in this measure a provision which I say unashamedly I hope will operate to bring out more tolerance towards the permitting of a smaller number of electors in the gigantic, remote and difficult electorates. 
Yet it has been suggested by Country Party members that previous redistributions have been fair and have not operated in favour of their political party. Members of the Country Party today oppose this legislation simply because the Government is to remove the existing gerrymander that favours their Party and make the redistribution laws of this country fairer than they have been in the past. 
There can be nothing more equal than equal. Whilst we agree that it may not be possible to achieve that sort of result in a determination of the number of electors in each electorate from State to State, we still believe that it is possible to get much closer to that ideal situation than exists today where the weight of variation can extend from 20 per cent below to 20 per cent above a quota. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  speakes with 2 voices. He speaks here with one voice but speaks with another voice when he goes into Queensland and steps into National Party territory. Of course, the right honourable gentleman's Party is not called the Country Party in Queensland but is known as the National Party, which is short for multinational Party. As head of the National Party he is asked questions about the gerrymanders that exist in Queensland. Today, of course, in justification of that situation in Queensland, we are told that the Labor Party used to do the same thing as is being done by the National Party. 
The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  challenged the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to talk about the gerrymander that exists in Queensland. This Labor Government does not run away from the fact that Labor governments in the past have been guilty of these things, not only in Queensland but probably elsewhere. But surely the argument that that situation existed in the past cannot be justification for it to continue to exist today. I refer to what the Leader of the Australian Country Party says when he assumes the mantle of responsibility federally on behalf of the National Party.  Mr Anthony  was questioned in Townsville about unfair electoral laws. A Queensland newspaper reported: 
The Country Party Federal Leader  (Mr Anthony)  agreed yesterday with a suggestion that State Governments had jockeyed the electoral laws. 
The newspaper report continues: 
Speaking on an open-line radio program, he said it had been done in all States over the last 50 years. 'I don't approve of it', he said. 
The Leader of the Country Party does not approve of it and yet he supports it. We will see within the next hour or so that his vote will support it. 
If it is suggested today that the Opposition is united in its attitude against the proposals contained in this Bill I think it is as well to remind members of the Parliament of the great fights that took place in their party rooms at the time in 1973 when their original decision to support this Bill was taken. The 'Daily Telegraph' of Friday, 30 March 1973 reported: 
The Liberal Party yesterday decided to oppose the electoral changes- but only after a heated debate. Several Liberal senators might not vote on the Bill . . . 
Of course, we found that they were forced by the Country Party to toe the line, and they did vote on the Bill. The newspaper report continues under the headline 'Snedden angry': 
The Party room debate established strong divisions among the 60 Liberal senators and MPs on whether the Bill should be opposed or allowed to go through. 
Those Liberal senators and members referred to in the report were the realistic and the fair minded. There may be still a few among them who are fair minded and honest in their approach to electoral justice. They are the people who argue against this proposal but were dragged by their bootlaces into supporting the Country Party on the continuation of the gerrymander that exists under the current legislation which we seek today to amend. 
To impress some of the members from Queensland I will quote what the 'pro-Labor newspaper of Queensland' said about this proposed redistribution. I quote from that well known Labor journal, the 'Courier Mail'! In speaking of this legislation in its editorial it said: 
This does not mean the change is wrong. The present system certainly gives the Country Party disproportionate representation in Parliament. Improved transport has made it much easier for members to move about sprawling rural electorates. 

 Mr Acting Chairman, much of what I could say this afternoon in regard to the reasons why all fair minded people will agree that this legislation is overdue and should be supported has already been said. I will make just a few more comments. One remark I wish to make is to remind some of the younger Liberal members that not so long ago the Liberal Party in Queensland carried at its State Conference a resolution which proposed exactly the same proposition as the Government includes in this legislation. That resolution was that electoral quotas should not vary by more than 10 per cent. 
Let me refer again to the remarks made by the honourable member for McPherson this afternoon. How on earth can he justify to his electors the variation in enrolments that exists between his electorate and the electorate of Maranoa represented by the Country Party member- I do not know whether it is Country Party member or National Party member-  Mr Corbett.  At the 1968 redistribution the enrolment for McPherson was 47,371. The enrolment for Maranoa at the redistribution in 1968 was 44,788. Let me remind honourable members and senators that the enrolment in McPherson at 28 June 1974 of 90,525 is the highest in the State except for my electorate of Bowman, which is the second highest. The honourable member for Maranoa represents a little more than 50 per cent of that enrolment. I can see how embarrassed and ashamed he is. He should be embarrassed by and ashamed of the small enrolment that he represents.  His  voice in this Parliament is disproportionate to the voices of us who represent the numerically large Queensland electorates of McPherson and my electorate of Bowman. Let me whisper that the present enrolment in the electorate of Maranoa is 47,493. That is 29.83 per cent below the quota. The enrolment in McPherson is 39.47 per cent above the quota of 64,906. 
As I said at the outset of my remarks, there can be no doubt that the only fair thing would be to have equal numbers of enrolments in all electorates. That is impossible to achieve. The legislation being considered today goes as close as is reasonably possible to achieving this by reducing the margin from 20 per cent above and below the quota to 10 per cent above and below the quota. What the Government proposes is equality of all electorates as near as it is humanly possible to achieve it in legislation. I urge the combined Houses to support this legislation. 
-Let me explain what would happen if we followed the logic of some of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  In his remarks on this legislation, he suggested that the increased postal charges would contribute very greatly to the inflationary situation in Australia. The obvious consequence is that if the Government could decrease its charges sufficiently it might cure inflation. That is an example of the negative type of thinking which the Opposition constantly puts forward in this chamber. 
The honourable member went on to say- he had some agreement from one of his colleagues whom we have come to know quite well in the short period that he has been here for his ridiculous interjections- that this Government had no interest in decentralisation. That remark was so stupid that it was ridiculous in the extreme. It is a pity that the honourable member has not been in the House on more frequent occasions to hear debate on legislation introduced by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  It is a pity that the honourable member did not take the opportunity in the last couple of days to note some of the real development that has been proposed by this Government for the Albury-Wodonga area. It is unfortunate that he did not reflect on the pitiful record of his own Liberal-Country Party Government which, in the 1 1th hour of its great number of years in office, suddenly found an interest in decentralisation when it realised that that issue would be a real election winner for the Labor Party in 1972. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many postal votes were cast in each electoral division in (a) the 1972 House of Representatives Election and (b) the 1 974 General Election. 
I want to take the opportunity tonight to refer to a speech that was made during the adjournment debate last Thursday evening by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  He spoke at some length about a matter that had been mentioned by me in this House on 12 November 1973. He explained that the matter to which I referred, which concerned a certain malpractice that took place during the 1972 federal election campaign in regard to the issue of postal vote ballot papers in Lilley, was something with which he had absolutely nothing to do and of which he had no knowledge. He suggested in the course of his remarks that he expected that if I accepted his statement of last Thursday I would do the right and proper thing and apologise to him. 
I take this opportunity tonight to say that I accept his denial- belated as it perhaps is, but appropriately made after an investigation had been conducted, at his instigation, by the Commonwealth Police who virtually determined that it was impossible for them to identify the person concerned with this malpractice. Whenever I have been incorrect in anything that I have said I have always been prepared to apologise for the incorrect statement. I am most anxious always to apologise for any error that I make. I do so on this occasion just as I have done on other occasions previously. I hope that I will always be prepared to do so. 
Let me assure the honourable member quite openly that I accept what he said, that is, that he had no knowledge of this matter and was not in any way associated with it. I apologise for my clear suggestion that in my opinion he was in some way- however distantly it might have been- associated with the affair that took place in the 1972 election campaign. I do not want to apportion any further blame to him. But it should not be overlooked that this event did take place in 1972. It was public knowledge at that time that this act took place during the 1972 campaign. It was quite clear beyond any shadow of doubt that during that campaign how to vote cards for the honourable member for Lilley who was, at that time also, the honourable member for Lilley, were sent out with postal ballot papers. 
I want to say further that even though this was a known fact, established and not denied, I did not at any time- and I would hate to think that he felt that I did- reflect on the integrity of the divisional returning officer for Lilley or, for that matter, any person male or female who worked in that office. I think it is important that I restate the undeniable fact that at that time postal vote malpractices took place in the Division of Lilley. This was established before the election. It has been affirmed on several occasions since then. It was admitted quite clearly in the quotations that the honourable member for Lilley read to this House last Thursday evening from letters that had been received by his solicitors from the Australian Electoral Office following the information that it had received on the investigations conducted by the Commonwealth Police. I read again from the statement that he made in order to bring it clearly to the minds of honourable members. He quoted from a letter which read: 
By letter dated 14 March last, the Australian Electoral Officer informed us - 
That is the solicitors employed by the honourable member for Lilley- that the Commonwealth Police have been investigating the matter and have advised that the person responsible for including election pamphlets with postal voting material addressed to a person in the Division has not yet been identified. 
I certainly share with the honourable member for Lilley concern that this did take place and that as yet it has not been possible to identify the person concerned. We know that this went on in Lilley in 1972 and that many other malpractices have been associated with postal vote collection in recent years, particularly in Queensland. 
It is important that all honourable members realise the important steps that are being taken at this time by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is responsible for electoral matters and for the administration of this very important part of our democratic way of life. The Minister will introduce into this House very shortly some measures that will eliminate, to a great extent, the opportunities that exist for zealous party workers who at times are not prepared to play the game as straight as they should to involve themselves in the malpractices that have been known to exist in the past within the postal vote system as it is currently allowed to exist under the provisions of the Electoral Act. I hope that all honourable members will support the Government when that legislation is introduced into the House and debated here, so that we can eliminate some of the opportunities that exist for malpractice within the present postal vote system. I have spoken previously in this place about such malpractices. I have been supported on previous occasions by honourable members from the other side of the House. Sadly, of course, I could instance, and I will instance in the future, some malpractices that those same members have in fact had in operation in their own electorates. But that is for the future. 
Before I conclude let me say that I would not want anyone to think that the statements I made here were not made on the basis of facts I had or on the basis of evidence that had been placed before me. I make it quite clear here and now that a statutory declaration signed by a woman in Zillmere had been produced and made available to officers of my Party prior to the House of Representatives election in 1972. I understand that it was made available to the Commonwealth Police. It appears that the contents of the statutory declaration have not been denied. It appears that it has been accepted as a fact that how to vote cards for the Liberal candidate for Lilley were dispatched from the Electoral Office with ballot papers. A statutory declaration had been signed by a woman in the Zillmere area and the ballot papers were sent to her aged father, together with his how-to-vote card. There have been many other malpractices in the past, particularly in the electorate of Lilley. 
I see that the honourable member for Lilley is in the House this evening. He may be in a position to explain to us the malpractices that took place in the election in 1966 when, perhaps rightly or wrongly, he eventually became very well known in the House as the third man. Certain things happened during that election campaign in 1966. Australian Labor Party election campaign signs were destroyed and dumped into the Brisbane River. Of course, those are things well past in history now and I would not want to refer to them at any length tonight. Appropriately, I will leave the matter at that. But I think the honourable member for Lilley even enjoyed the title that he had in those days. He seems to be quite jovial in his appreciation of my mention of these matters this evening. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is most important that I make clear this evening that one point that I made and in addition - 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment and Conservation. I refer to the disastrous floods in Queensland and their effects particularly in Brisbane earlier this year. Following these floods it was widely claimed that the construction of the Wivenhoe Dam would play a vital role in future flood mitigation in the area concerned. I ask: Has the Australian Government received any request from the Queensland Government for financial assistance for this project? If so, why has there been such a delay in making an announcement about the assistance that the Australian Government will give? Will the Minister give us an explanation of that? In addition, will he give some indication of when he expects the Australian Government to be able to announce the role that it intends to play in the construction of the dam? 
I briefly want to comment on the remarks of the 2 previous speakers from the Opposition side, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  As to what the honourable member for Gippsland said, I agree in principle with the argument which was put forward by my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  in regard to postal charges for Christmas cards, and I would not want to try to influence him to send me a Christmas card seeing that he has told me that he will not change the principle that he has adopted in the past of not sending one to me. But I must say that I sympathise with the point of view expressed by the honourable member for Gippsland. I think his suggestion is really worthy of more serious consideration. I urge the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who represents the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  in this place, to bring this matter to his attention and urge that further and very close consideration be given to ascertaining whether some relief can be given on this occasion to people who will be sending out Christmas cards in large numbers and will have to meet a substantial increase in postal charges announced in the Budget. 
Reference has been made to the increase in the letter rate charge from 7c to 10c and not the original proposed increase of 7c to 9c. The responsibility for this additional increase must rest on the shoulders of the Opposition. As the Minister said in his second reading speech when he introduced this measure, the additional charges will bring in to the Post Office an amount of $ 146m which is the exact amount of money by which the Post Office would have fallen short as a result of the irresponsible action taken by the Opposition when what was referred to as a mini-budget was introduced earlier this year to reject the postal charges the Government had intended to impose at that time. Those charges were imposed quite openly following the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the Premiers 
Conference that this Government would measure up to its responsibility and would ensure that departments were responsible for meeting their commitments. In other words, we would not allow departments with certain commitments to continue to avoid their commitments by not raising revenue. He has set that example, as he has in other areas set an example for State governments, in an endeavour to convince them that it is about time they shouldered their responsibilities and made sure that they made a real effort particularly in respect of some of their departments to raise the finance that was needed rather than to cry poor mouth to the Australian Government continually year after year. 
I remind the honourable member for Wimmera of something that he might like to carry back as a message to some of his electors in case he has not already told them or in case he is not aware of it. He is bemoaning the fact that these additional heavy telephone charges will mean great hardships and will place a burden on his electors. He might remind the primary producers that they can claim telephone rentals as a legitimate business expense for taxation purposes. I am sure there will not be too many of them who do not realise this. The Government should be congratulated for adopting the attitude that the Post Office should pay its way. We must remember that the Postal Department has the highest concentration of public servants of any other department. About 120,000 public servants are employed in this Department compared with a total Public Service commitment of about 266,000. 
The matter that I principally want to refer to in the time available to me in this debate is a problem that many people have to face. I get complaints, as I am sure every honourable member does, of overcharging on telephone accounts. I agree that in many instances there is no sound reason for complaint where the overcharging is anything else but the result of a commitment that the people themselves have made by using the subscriber trunk dialling service or using their telephone more often than they themselves believe it is being used. But instances have been brought to my attention in which it seems to me almost impossible to believe that the overcharging could be anything but a mistake on the part of the Department or in some cases as a result of the use of faulty equipment. I know that the equipment is always tested. 
I must say that on every occasion I have referred a matter to the Department it has done its very best to check out the equipment and it has left no stone unturned to investigate the case to see whether the complainant has any legitimate grounds for a reconsideration of the telephone account which was presented because the amount charged is well above the general run of telephone accounts that the person had received over a number of years. I think this was mentioned to some extent in the Vernon report. From memory, I recall that it was suggested in the recommendations of the report that the Post Office should do everything possible to institute some system of presentation of accounts so that people will be able to get an itemised or more detailed account than is available at the moment. Despite the fact that the Post Office will give people a summary of the charges that are made it is apparently not able under the present accounting system to provide people with sufficient details to convince them that the account is accurate when it gets to the stage that the Post Office says: 'We are sorry. We cannot vary the charges. We have investigated this. We found these charges that have been imposed on you are for calls that have been made from this number. We have no alternative but to maintain that the charge in your account must remain as it is '. 
What I am asking for is that every effort be made as quickly as possible to ensure that a better system is introduced so that we can get to the stage where even if justice is being done to the person concerned- and I accept the fact- justice may be seen to be done. At the present time I have placed before the Postmaster-General a case involving a widow in my electorate. Her telephone account had increased by over 100 per cent from $35 to $74. It is very difficult for a person like this woman to face up to this additional heavy charge particularly when in her own mind she cannot see any reason why the account should increase so substantially. She assures me in writing and in conversation which I have had with her that she has never used subscriber trunk dialling and she never has people staying in her place overnight. She is 76 years old and a widow. Despite the fact that she might have used the telephone a lot more during the period in question than she has over a number of years at least if it could be proved to her beyond all reasonable doubt by providing an itemised account there would be no argument. But when you leave people in doubt they feel they are being victimised and they feel that the Post Office is unjust in these things. This is a most unfortunate situation. I hope that action is taken as suggested in the Vernon report and as I am sure has been suggested by other honourable members in the past in an endeavour to overcome this problem. 
I want to refer to another item which has given me some concern in recent times. It is the great increase of vandalism to public telephones that appears to be developing in the Brisbane area. I know that it also occurs in other areas. I congratulate the Minister on the move that has been made to bring the coin telephones within the control of his Department because this surely will permit public telephones owned by the Government rather than the Red Phones and the Yellow Phones which are owned by private enterprise to be provided and located by the Government in more secure places so that they will be available to the general public for use from day to day. I do not know whether there is any way by which we can overcome the growing problem of vandalism to public telephone facilities. I understand from conversation with the Minister recently- I congratulate him on this - that shortly a very concerted campaign is to be introduced by his Department to try to overcome this problem by illustrating to the people how ridiculous this wanton destruction is and to try to convince them that they should report any destruction which they see in their area. Vandalism, of course, is a problem of concern to all people who accept responsibility for the young people of Australia. Very often they hold about the same regard for authority as young people had in the past. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This morning I want to refer particularly to a matter of considerable concern to the people of Queensland and I am sure to all fairminded Australians. This matter is associated with the political situation in Queensland and has particular significance at this stage because of the elections that are to be held in Queensland on 7 December. Often we have heard honourable members on this side of the House speak of the 19 per cent Premier of Queensland. Despite the fact that the Country Party rejects this percentage description as being a true indication of the support for the Party in Queensland, if it is examined on a seat by seat basis it will be seen that the coalition parties in Queensland with 42 per cent of the votes in the last State election got 47 seats in the Legislative Assembly, compared with the Labor Party which polled 48 per cent of the votes and got only 33 seats. This is a pretty fair indication of the style of democracy that is supported by the Premier of Queensland. 
It is as well at this time to impress on the people of Queensland that in this election, despite what the Premier wants them to believe, they will not be passing judgment on the Australian Government, they will simply be doing as people do in every State election- determining which political party will have responsibility for and authority over the State for the next 3 years. Clearly Queenslanders should be made aware of the sections of the community from which the major political parties draw their financial and even in recent times their physical support- a matter to which I want to refer this morning. It is sufficient for me to say that in respect of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party, their complexion, their power base, their area of support have changed very little; so little, in fact, that it does not warrant attention in the remarks that I intend to make this morning. 
However, the same does not apply to the Country Party, or the National Party as it is known in Queensland. That Party has in recent times undergone a significant and somewhat sinister change, a change not only in name but, more importantly, in the basic structural support of the Party. I want to give honourable members a few brief facts in explanation and proof of this claim and I want to remind Queenslanders to look behind the facade, to look behind the false front of respectability, of interest and concern for Queensland people put forward by the Premier, and see what the real facts are, because if they return a National Party-led coalition government in the Queensland elections on 7 December they will in fact have elected the political front for that sinister, subversive, insidious organisation, the League of Rights. Carefully and deliberately the League has forged inseparable links with the Country Party in Queensland. Indeed, to all intents and purposes it has taken over that Party in Queensland, taken it over to the extent that it has forced the renaming of the Party. It is now known as the National Party, to be more in keeping with the Nazi or nationalist socialist philosophies of the League of Rights, and I invite all honourable members to examine these facts. 
As long ago as 1971 the well-known leader of the League of Rights in Australia,  Mr Eric  Butler, made a claim which was reported in the 'Telegraph' in Queensland of 24 September 1971 as follows: 
Thousands of Country Party members support the Australian League of Rights,  Mr Eric  Butler said yesterday.  Mr Butler,  the League's national director, claimed that the Queensland branch of the Party had officially dissociated itself from criticism of the League. 
That was in 1971. In 1972, so much was the concern of the Country Party organisation in Queensland that the State secretary,  Mr M.  J. Evans, was sent on a 4-day tour of southern Queensland to assess and counteract the growing influence of the League, which was reported to be strongest in that region. It is a well known fact that the central power base of the League in those times existed in Dalby, and this was accepted by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  At about the same time the Melbourne 'Age' reported  Mr Anthony  as saying that he wanted to warn country people of the dangers of becoming involved with this movement, which was trying to capitalise on the serious difficulties in which country people found themselves. He declared that he did not want the Country Party name to be associated with the League's rather sinister radical beliefs. Hence it can be seen that in Queensland the League found it necessary to force on the Country Party a change in name so that the people of Queensland could be tricked into believing that it meant a change of attitude, a change of concern by that Party. It was suggested at the time, of course, that this new name- the National Party- indicated that it was going to be interested not only in the country areas from which they drew their support but would also be looking to the interests of people in the city areas. Time will not permit me this morning to make anything but a very short reference - 
-Of course the members of the Country Party here say "Thank goodness for that' because they do not want to hear the truth. They do not want the people of Australia to know what they have been up to in Queensland, and also down in the Riverina area. We well know what happened in that area during the last election campaign. We well know the sinister practices that were linked with the Country Party during that campaign which led to the defeat of the well known and popular member for Riverina in the last Parliament,  Mr Grassby. 
I want to concentrate this morning on what has happened in Queensland to the National Party, as it is now known. It has been taken over by the Australian League of Rights, and proudly the League of Rights has acclaimed this. Some months ago a newspaper called 'Queensland Calling' was published m the Queensland Premier's own electorate. It was suggested that this publication was the spontaneous reaction of the citizens of that area to support the Premier. The first issue of the newspaper said that 'Queensland Calling' had been issued by the Save Our State campaign, a spontaneous movement in Queensland which consisted of people from many walks of life. The newspaper went on to say that its distribution was going to be effectively organised. It was proud to announce that it would be carried out by this method: 
The Save Our State campaign called on assistance in this regard from the Australian League of Rights, which has built up a nationwide network of contacts and supporters through the years. 
Let me refer also to the lack of concern, as I indicated earlier, at the infiltration which caused  Mr Evans  to carry out a tour of Queensland some couple of years ago. I refer also to a publication called 'Rhodesian Commentary' of February 1974 which came into my hands some time ago. It acclaimed the meeting of the south eastern zone of the Young Australian Country Party being held at Gympie on 9 and 10 February at which the Minister for Police and Public Works in Queensland,  Mr Hodges,  spoke. Another  speaker  was the Director of the Rhodesian Information Centre,  Mr van  der Spuy. Of course, we had the spectacle of a former member of this House, the former right honourable member for Fisher, supporting  Mr Eric  Butler on a platform during the recent Federal election campaign in Queensland. Let me list some of the people involved with the League of Rights. Their names are well known. They include  Sir Raphael  Cilento and  Mr C.  H. Griffiths of Southern Cross Pty Ltd who is a great anti-Labor stalwart and supporter of the National Party. 
In the limited time left to me this morning I would challenge the Premier of Queensland to deny all association with this infamous, fascist organisation. I challenge him to dissociate himself and his Party from the League of Rights' backing through its monthly journal which is published in his electorate. I challenge the Premier to produce irrefutable evidence that his Cabinet and he in particular are in no way whatsoever receiving help from or being influenced by the League. I know that he will not do this because he cannot. He accepts its support and his silence will serve only to prove the truth of the certain but sinister union which exists between the National Party in Queensland and the national socialist front organisation, the League of Rights. It is important that the Queensland people be made aware of just what goes on in this particular political Party in Queensland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Not as reluctantly as the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  but rather joyfully and proudly I support the Bill. I congratulate the Government on taking this forthright stand to honour the election promise of 1972 on which this Government was elected and which was part of its progressive platform at that time. The Government pledged to raise the status of local government, to introduce a new deal for some 900 of these local authorities throughout Australia, to relieve those people of the third tier of Government responsibility in Australia of the burden that for far too long had forced them to the position were their development was restricted by the financial limitations they were very unjustly forced to carry because they were not being looked at on a fair and equitable basis by the various State Governments. As I have said, we espoused that policy in 1973 and again in 1974 when the Government was re-elected. Of course, an indication of the support given by the local authorities in Australia and the confidence that the local authorities generally have in the Australian Government today was the invitation extended to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to open the annual conference of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, which he did at Alice Springs on Monday, 1 1 November. 
The honourable member for Canning referred to local authorities in his electorate that missed out. They were not successful in their submissions to the Grants Commission and consequently were not awarded grants in the first allocation by the Commission for 1974. 1 realise that perhaps it is with some concern that he brings this to the attention of the Parliament, but I cannot really say that it is reasonable and fair for him to suggest that the local authorities he mentioned or all of those who did not receive a grant could really be in a position where they do not know why they missed out. The criteria are clearly set out in the Commission's report, which is available to all honourable members and to all local authorities that are involved in this exercise. They are clearly enunciated in the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He said: 
The grants are designed to reduce inequalities between local governing bodies in the provision of ordinary services. The grants will be made to the States for payment to these bodies to supplement their general revenues so as to enable them to provide a standard of service comparable with those provided by councils elsewhere. 
The overwhelming majority of local authorities have benefited from this decision. Some 92 per cent of those that submitted cases to the Grants Commission were successful. When one considers that only 8 per cent missed out and came into the category to which the honourable member for Canning referred, I do not think it is reasonable to suggest that they do not know why they missed out. As I say, those that missed out must accept the decision of this non-political organisation. No one can point a finger at the Government and say that any political influence was exerted on the Grants Commission or that the Government exerted any influence at all. The criteria were established by the Grants Commission on the same principles as it established for determining the grants that go to the mendicant States. On these principles grants were allocated to local shires. 
I support the honourable member for Canning on one point. The Grants Commission, the Minister and anybody else who has the responsibility of seeing that this measure is carried out effectively should, on the next occasion when the local authorities appear before the Grants Commission, spare no effort in seeing that complete and full explanations are given to the local authorities on how to prepare cases and perhaps guidelines should be laid down for them so that they can quite clearly understand how best to present their cases so that they do not miss out. The Redland Shire in my electorate received no grant. The Brisbane City Council, which is responsible for the greater part of my electorate, received $2m. It is explained quite clearly in the Grants Commission's report why this $2m was granted to the Brisbane City Council. Generally speaking, looking at the Redland area and the development there, I can understand why under the terms of the criteria laid down the Redland Shire would be ineligible for a grant when compared with other shires throughout Queensland. But I must say that I am very heartened by the suggestion in the Minister's second reading speech that local government authorities should not take the attitude that simply because they missed out on this occasion they will miss out again. He said: 
It is in the nature of the Commission's task that in any year some local authorities will receive lower grants than their neighbouring councils or shires, and some authorities will not receive any grants. Consequently, the fact that a council receives a grant this year does not necessarily mean that the same council will receive a grant next year. This is because the Government has asked the Commission to recommend the amount of financial assistance needed to equalise the fiscal requirements of all local authorities, either individually or as regional groups. 
In supporting the attitude put forward by the honourable member for Canning I say that it is important that every effort be made to see that local authorities are properly briefed and are adequately equipped and competent to undertake the task of putting forward their case. I am sure that the Minister's Department will offer these services and facilities to local authorities. I support the advice given to local authorities earlier by my colleague, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick).  He impressed upon the local authorities in his electorate the need to put forward competent cases. Throughout his electorate he has urged them to see that they put forward a case and that they put it forward in a correct fashion to the Grants Commission when the Commission is considering grants for 1 975. 
The $2m to which I referred earlier which has been paid to the Brisbane City Council is naturally very welcome. It was appropriate that the Grants Commission looked at the Greater Brisbane area in isolation. Naturally it was impossible for the Commission to compare the Brisbane city area with any of the other capital cities because Brisbane is in the unique situation where the whole of the metropolitan area comes under the responsibility and authority of one council, the Brisbane City Council. To my way of thinking- I think generally speaking this is accepted in local government- this is the blueprint for the ideal form of local authority government in any metropolitan area and an example which could well be copied by other capital cities and major provincial cities throughout Australia. Recently I was amazed beyond belief to discover the situation that exists in the city of Geelong in Victoria, where half a dozen local authorities have responsibility either in the city itself or in close adjoining areas. It is ridiculous in the extreme that a city of that size has such an untidy and antiquated form of local government operating in the area. It is up to the Victorian Government to get cracking to see that the level of organisation in local government is upgraded in that State. Of course this applies in respect of many of the local authorities even in my own State. 
There is no doubt about one of the reasons why the State governments try to keep such a tight rein on local authorities and why they always want to remind the Australian Government of the fact that the local authorities are the children of the State government and reiterate that they want it kept that way. This is certainly because local authorities are kept under the control, power and influence of State governments. Many times State governments actively use this situation to their own political advantage. An excellent example is what happened recently in Brisbane. Dissatisfied with the fact that they were unable to defeat the very popular and dynamic Labor team in Brisbane led by Lord Mayor Clem Jones, the State Government changed the rules. Previously there had been 28 wards patterned on the State electorates in the Brisbane metropolitan area. The State government decided to cut the number back to 21 and to change the City of Brisbane Act on the advice of the Minister for Local Government and Electricity  Mr McKechnie.  To convince the people of Brisbane that his advice was well founded and that he was doing the correct thing by the people of Brisbane he disclosed on a television show that he had consulted taxi drivers, who had told him that the idea was popular. He decided that the Lord Mayor would have to be elected by the people of one particular ward rather than the citizens of Brisbane as a whole. Of course, the outcome of this is well known. It was an overwhelming victory for the Labor Party in the elections, when it won all but one of the seats. Of course, much to the displeasure of the Queensland Government, Clem Jones is still there to carry on the good job that he has been doing for Brisbane since 1961. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  whose electorate comes to a large extent within the Greater Brisbane area, smiles his approval. It is good to see that even a Liberal member of Parliament recognises the dynamic task that faces the man in charge of the Greater Brisbane area council and he smiles his congratulations and approval of the job that the Labor Party is doing for the Brisbane City area. I am pleased to see this tribute paid to the Labor Council and to the Lord Mayor, Clem Jones, and I am sure he will appreciate it. 
I congratulate the Government for ensuring that this measure was brought into the House before the conclusion of the session this year so that the decisions of the Grants Commission can be put into effect. I am particularly pleased to see that $2m will be made available to the Brisbane 
City Council and I know that it will be used to the advantage of the citizens of Brisbane, including those in the electorate of the honourable member opposite. I reiterate I hope that on the next occasion these applications come before the Grants Commission we will see a continuation of this development and that the Government will go on with its very highly principled decision to see that local authorities are at last recognised in their true position of responsibility in the 3 tiers of government in this nation. 
-This morning I had an opportunity to draw to the attention of honourable members the sinister coalition that exists in Queensland between the League of Rights and the Country Party, or National Party as it is known in that State. I gained the distinct impression, despite the conclusive evidence that I was able to put forward, that some members of the Country Party, as it is known in this chambereven the Queensland members- left the chamber not thoroughly convinced that such was the case. I think it is only fitting that I should take a further opportunity this evening to give them some more facts and let them into the secrets of what is happening within their own organisation in Queensland without their being aware of it. 
The League of Rights has been referred to in the 'Current Affairs Bulletin'. That publication describes the 4 divisions or subsidiary specialist organisations of that insidious organisation. Two of them I want to refer to specifically this evening. One is the Lilac League-Lilac' standing for Ladies in Line Against Communism. It was established in Queensland by  Mrs Jean  Luscombe, that State's Assistant Director of the League and an active member of the State Liberal Party. The League has a bit of a finger in the Liberal Party in Queensland, which is not surprising. The fourth and final division of the League is known as the Australian Heritage Society. It was launched in September 1971 at the annual seminar of the League with the well known  Sir Raphael  Cilento as patron and with a former Supreme Court judge and Consul-General in New York,  Sir Reginald  Sholl, also associated with it. It is these 2 people to whom I want to refer this evening. 
They are linked with the organisation which publishes 'Queensland Calling'. This, as I said this morning, claims to be a spontaneous organisation of citizens in the South Burnett area. 'Queensland Calling' is a monthly publication which is a propaganda sheet for the National Party. In this paper  Mrs Luscombe  writes a column; the one before me is headed 'Rising Prices and the Housewife' and her photograph is prominently displayed to show her link with the Queensland 'Save Our State' campaign. This campaign opened last year and listed as speakers for the meeting, according to an advertisement in the 'South Burnett Times' of 17 November 1973 under the heading 'Support Joe Petersen! Save Our State Campaign. A Dynamic Panel of Speakers'- I will let honourable members judge for themselves just who would call those listed dynamic- were the Right Honourable  Sir Charles  Adermann, former Cabinet Minister and one-time Federal member for Fisher;  Mr Eric  D. Butler, National Director of the Australian League of Rights, author, journalist and international lecturer who, incidentally, might be described in other ways; and  Mr Jim  Adams, managing director of the 'South Burnett Times'. Of course, the old truism still stands today- show me your friends and I will tell you what you are. 
Another public meeting, which was a continuation of this campaign, held on 23 August 1974 had billed as speakers the same  Sir Charles  Adermann and also no less a light than the honourable member for Wide Bay,  Mr Millar.  'Queensland Calling' is published in the South Burnett area and is distributed by the League of Rights, as I explained this morning, throughout the State. Just the other day through the mail I received a pamphlet from the League of Rights. Let me tell honourable members about that pamphlet. It acclaimed no other than Joh BjelkePetersen Premier Joh- and told everybody of the virtues of the Petersen Plan. Of course we have all heard of this great solution to the economic ills of Australia. The 'Petersen Plan' is acclaimed by the League of Rights in this pamphlet. It is headed: 'The League is Right! ' and continued: 
A message to Australian primary producers from the Australian League of Rights- 'Militant Action is not the Answer'. 
Of course, this is the same cry as we have heard from some of the front bench spokesmen for the Country Party. They are all the time claiming that they are telling the farmers that this is not the way to overcome their problems. While they are telling them this publicly, we all know full well that the encouragement that they are giving them is only activating their dissension. The results of those efforts will be displayed, I believe, in a few days' time in a demonstration here in Canberra. 
The League of Rights publication goes on to say: 
The Petersen Plan is where to start . . . 
Dear Australian primary producer, 
Yes, there IS a need for organised effective action to protect the family on the land. One crisis after another has crippled Australia's rural areas. The moment of truth has now been reached. 
Let there be no further doubts,  Mr Speaker.  As I said to honourable members this morning, this insidious organisation, this fascist organisation, led in Australia by Eric Butler, has taken control of the Country Party in Queensland. If the Country Party members in this chamber and the Country Party rank and file people in Queensland are not yet aware of this fact, it will not be long before they are. It will not be long before it becomes crystal clear to them that the control of the Country Party- now called the National Party in Queensland- no longer rests with the power base that at one time controlled that organisation. It now rests with the Cilentos the Griffiths, the Russells, the Birminghams, the Eric Butlers and the League of Rights. 
-I refer the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to reports that assistance given by the Australian Government to local government through the Grants Commission and the area improvement program has discriminated against country areas. I ask the Minister. Is there any substance in these reports? In particular, could the Minister indicate whether there has been any discrimination in assistance given to country areas in Queensland? 
It is interesting to hear the Opposition this evening- reluctantly though it might be- support the passage of these 3 Bills through the House. I want to refer in particular to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
Yes, some of the comments made by the honourable member for McPherson were certainly significant. I was quite disappointed when I gave him the opportunity to speak in respect of the Treasurer of Queensland that he did not admit- as both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Sir Gordon  Chalk have admitted- that a happier situation would exist in Queensland if  Sir Gordon  Chalk were leader of the coalition government and Premier of Queensland than exists under the Joh BjelkePetersen regime. I am sure,  Mr Speaker,  that I am entitled to compliment the honourable member for McPherson. Although he was not prepared to admit it openly, I could see by the smile on his face at the time when I interjected that he was quite prepared to agree with me that  Sir Gordon  Chalk would be a better Premier than Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Of course, this does not go quite far enough. If given the opportunity the honourable member for McPherson would probably admit also that there would be greater co- operation between the Queensland Government and the Federal Government. That cooperation can be carried out effectively by the passage of these 3 Bills. These Bills indicate how Queensland can benefit from co-operation with the Federal Government. I am sure that the honourable member for McPherson would agree with me that there would be greater co-operation if  Mr Percy  Tucker were Leader of the Government and the Premier of Queensland. Of course, on 7 December the people of Queensland will be showing this nation how they feel. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I certainly intend to do so. I was simply making a passing reference. When you gave that indulgence to the honourable member for McPherson and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  they abused that privilege. I do not intend to do the same,  Mr Speaker,  as I have too much regard for your authority. The essence of these 3 Bills, of course, is the co-operation that this Government seeks from the State governments. The expenditure involved in these 3 Bills is $7. 5m. I am sure this legislation will be approved by the House this evening. It is an excellent example of how the various governments in this nation can cooperate, co-ordinate and get on together. I am sure that the people of Queensland do not care who spends the money. This question was raised by the 2 previous speakers on the Opposition side. They endeavoured to reflect on this Government because of its acceptance of responsibility for the allocation of financial resources to the various States. They suggested that the finances allocated by this Government should be given to the States without any ties and that this Government should accept completely responsibility for the eventual allocation of financial resources. 
In effect, this Government would be recreant if it was prepared to do this. The Government realises that the taxpayers money must be expended to the best advantage. I could give excellent examples of how in the past when finance has been made available, particularly to the State of Queensland, the State Government has failed to use that money. I make passing reference to a disclosure which was made today and I do not concentrate on it to any extent because it does not concern the legislation before the House. I refer to the abject failure of the Queensland Government to expend the funds that were allocated by this Government within the last 12 months for government schools. Instead of taking advantage of this excellent opportunity for co-operation the Queensland Government, left to its own resources and given the money without any significant ties attached to it, failed miserably to carry out its responsibilities. This Government, having allocated the funds provided for in this legislation, has a responsibility to direct how and when those funds should be spent. To illustrate this point, I would point out that the funds made available to government schools in Queensland in the 1 974-75 financial year amounted to $21,575,000. 
-Obviously the honourable member for Griffith was not listening to my speech. I excuse him for being asleep at the time I made my point. I am only giving these examples of how the Queensland Government, when left on its own to expend the money given to it by this Government, has failed miserably in carrying out that responsibility. Of the $21,575,000 made available to the Queensland Government for government schools in the last financial year, only $3,887,000 was expended. What does this mean? It means that when the Queensland Government had the opportunity to carry out in that State works vitally necessary to the development of that State and to use some of the available unemployed in the State, it has not been prepared to take that opportunity. This Government is giving the Queensland Government an opportunity to make good. In introducing the 3 Bills that we are debating this evening the Australian Government is giving the Queensland Government a further opportunity at last to show its bona fides and at last to show that it is prepared to be honest about the relationship that should exist between the States and the Australian Government. It is giving the Premier of Queensland, in his dying days as Premier of Queensland, an opportunity finally to come forward and to say honestly that he is prepared to co-operate with the Australian Government, that he is prepared to cast away the petty politically advantageous attitudes that he has adopted in the past, and that he is prepared, for the benefit of the people of Queensland who currently are unemployed and who want to see these works carried out, to put forward every effort that he can muster on behalf of his Government to see that immediately these Bills become law the works provided for in them are carried into effect. 
The honourable member for Maranoa suggested this evening that there has been some delay on the part of this Government in providing the finance, in particular, for one of the projects covered by these Bills. But when speaking of delay, perhaps it is appropriate that I remind honourable members opposite that the Premier of Queensland has been singularly outstanding for the delays that he has caused in the past when approaches have been made by the Government for co-operation from the Queensland Government. 
As we are considering this evening works in relation to flood mitigation in Queensland, I think it appropriate to make some reference in passing to probably one of the most important flood mitigation projects in Queensland which will be carried out for many a long day. I refer to the pending construction of the Wivenhoe Dam. What is the attitude of the Premier of Queensland in regard to this project? To seek cheap political capital he suggested, by means of a propaganda Press release on 10 July, that Queensland would go it alone in the construction of the Wivenhoe Dam. Fortunately we have a very asture alert and wide awake Minister in the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who was able to prove the next day that the Queensland Premier had been dishonest in this claim that this Government had not been prepared to co-operate in the preparation of the designs and plans for the construction of the Wivenhoe Dam. 
My interest in this dam occasioned my asking a question of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  some few weeks ago. I was seeking information from him as to just what was happening in relation to this very important flood mitigation program in Queensland. He was able to tell me that in March this year the Premier of Queensland received a letter from the Prime Minister seeking the Premier's views on the modification of the dam because, as the Prime Minister rightly asserted at that stage, if the Australian Government was going to assist the State Government it needed to know just what would be involved and what financial contributions, if any, the Australian Government would have to make. 
Let me remind honourable members that the 3 Bills that we are considering tonight provide an example of how well projects in Queensland can proceed, of just how effectively the important work necessary for the development of Queensland can be carried out, when the State Government is prepared to do what it is elected by the people of Queensland to do and to cooperate with the Government of this nation which has the responsibility of raising the necessary finances and providing those finances to the State governments. Let me remind honourable members again that the people of Queensland are not interested in the petty political attitudes adopted by the Premier of Queensland when he suggests that taxpayers money should not be spent in Queensland simply because his paltry little 19 per cent Party in the Coalition Government of Queensland cannot have an absolute say on how that finance is to be expended. The people of Queensland want their money to be spent on the development of Queensland. They want a government which is prepared to cooperate with the Government that they elect to the national Parliament. 
I cite another example of the failure of the Queensland Government to co-operate with the Federal Government. When the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of Queensland about this vitally important project that would in the future save Brisbane from a repetition of the disastrous flood that occurred earlier this year, the Premier of Queensland did not see fit to reply to the letter from the Prime Minister until September of this year. The Prime Minister the other day mentioned the numerous occasions on which he has written to the Premier of Queensland asking the Premier to co-operate with him in the various efforts that the Australian Government has been making to carry forward the development of Queensland. Only because of the embarrassment of the disclosures of last weekend was the Premier prepared to reply to the numerous letters from the Prime Minister. Of course, it is important for us to realise that the Premier of Queensland is busily concerned with keeping  Sir Gordon  Chalk from becoming Premier of Queensland should the present coalition Government, by some mischance, be returned to office on 7 December. 
Or to prevent him from becoming, as my colleague the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  reminds me, the next Leader of the Opposition in that State. He is too busy with those problems with which he has been confronted. Although it is not appropriate to stray too far from the Bills under discussion this evening, let me remind you,  Mr Speaker,  that the Queensland Premier saved himself by his own proxy vote some time ago when his Party wished to cast him out as Leader. I invite the Premier of Queensland again this evening as we in this Parliament consider these 3 very important Bills for the development of Queensland to look once again at the opportunities that are being given for the development of Queensland. Those opportunities are typified in these Bills. 
I invite him to cast aside his narrow political attitudes of the past and, even at this late hour, use the example set by these 3 measures to accept the genuine opportunities that are offered to him so frequently by this Australian Government elected by the same people that he believes put him into power, even though under the electoral gerrymander system existing in Queensland they had little opportunity to do otherwise. I invite him to accept these opportunities for the sake of the people of Queensland and to say that the bona fides of the Labor Government have been excellently demonstrated in these important measures of flood relief and dam development provided for this evening in these 3 Bills. I invite the Premier of Queensland to say that in the future he will turn over a new leaf and do everything possible to co-operate with the Federal Government and to co-ordinate his plans with the plans of the Australian Government which, as I have said on three or four occasions this evening, has genuinely and continually sought to introduce into Queensland, money of the Queensland taxpayers for the development of that State in a responsible fashion. I wholeheartedly give my support to these 3 measures and I congratulate the Opposition for taking the attitude that it has taken in supporting them this evening. 
I am pleased to have the opportunity in these few minutes to support the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech explained several reforms of a fundamental nature to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. He also seeks to make a number of fairly minor amendments of a procedural nature. He carefully listed the total number of changes which are proposed in this Bill. Some of these changes have already been touched on by my colleagues, who have spoken previously. Tonight it is my intention to deal specifically with two or three of the proposed amendments but in passing I think it is appropriate to remind the Opposition that no fewer than 15 of the amendments currently being considered in this Bill were proposed by the Opposition while it had responsibility for administering the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I am sure it is also appropriate to remind honourable members opposite that while they like to criticise the optional preference provision which it is suggested should be incorporated as an amendment in the Act, and while they suggest that this provision is being used for political purposes by the Government, in the recent election in the Northern Territory when this provision was used for possibly the first time, honourable members opposite- particularly members of the Australian Country Party- loudly acclaimed the great advantages of the electoral system when so many of their candidates were successful. So it might be significant for them to think again about what is proposed here and to see how democratic the proposals really are. 
The main amendment to which I wish to refer this evening relates to the conduct of postal voting. I applaud the Minister for introducing these amendments which will set up mobile booths and which will, to some extent, tidy up the existing postal voting system which operates under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 

 Mr McVeigh- Joh Bjelke-Petersen did that. 
I must say that there are very few things for which I applaud the Queensland Government but I certainly applaud it for introducing the system of mobile booths or the electoral visitor system. 
If, as the honourable member for Darling Downs suggests, that gets me headlines in the 'Courier Mail' tomorrow, it is the only way I will get them. Nevertheless, I am prepared to concede that it is a worthwhile system. On the occasion of the introduction of the mobile booths I am only sorry that the Government has not deemed it possible to go the whole way and to introduce a system of electoral visitor voting for each and every person who is unable to visit a polling booth within the electorate in which he is residing on polling day. I did my best to see that such a system was introduced but I am happy to accept this compromise as a start. I am pleased that this proposal will be initiated. At least we will overcome the grave malpractice which exists within the postal voting system currently whereby the Australian Labor Party- I speak specifically of the areas of Brisbane which I know- is at a grave disadvantage particularly in respect to nursing homes. I say that we would be lucky if our people were allowed to visit 5 per cent of the nursing homes in Brisbane before polling day. We would be lucky if there were 5 per cent. 
The rest of the privately run nursing homes are kept as the exclusive preserve of Liberal candidates and Liberal members. Postal votes are almost exclusively preserved for Liberal candidates in the electorates around Brisbane that I know of. This is disastrous, of course, from the point of view of democracy. It is devastating from the point of view of the Labor candidates. It is singularly undemocratic and it is something that we seek to abolish in the amendment proposed to this Act. We seek to give the people who through age, infirmity or illness are hospitalised, or those who are permanent residents of aged persons' homes or nursing homes, the opportunity to have once again the privilege that they enjoyed when they were in good health. They should have the opportunity once again to cast a democratic vote without the surveillance of party scrutineers and without the watchful eye of the Liberal Party canvassers. 
I should like to cite an incident in my electorate during the last election on 1 8 May. It is only for the sake of saving the person concerned embarrassment that I will not mention names. But let me assure honourable members that I could in fact name the individual who visited several nursing homes in my electorate before the last election on 1 8 May and told people in the homes: 'You must vote for the Liberal candidate. You must ensure that your vote is cast for the Liberal candidate because your future existence in this nursing home, where you are so comfortable, where you are so well looked after and where you know that you have got security of existence, is threatened if you return the Labor candidate and if he is part of a Labor Government returned to Canberra '. 
How disgraceful it is when party politics stoop to this level, when Liberal canvassers solicit votes in this way from the aged and infirm in nursing homes. I see smiles, smiles of disbelief perhaps, on some of the faces of honourable members opposite. I suggest to them that if they are interested in going around to some of the nursing homes to which I refer and masquerading as Labor candidates or Labor scrutineers, they will find great truth in the words that I have uttered. 
The picture I have painted here tonight of the situation is clearly 100 per cent correct. I say it without fear of contradiction. If it is not then let some of these people come out and deny that these practices have existed not only in my electorate but also in other electorates around the city of Brisbane. Let it be denied that scrutineers and canvassers for the Liberal Party, in particular, have gone to nursing home after nursing home and have stood over these people, the aged and the infirm, to extract votes for their candidates. This will be overcome by the system which we intend to introduce by the amendment to this Act. 
I recall speaking in this House previously about the abuses and the malpractices to which the postal voting system is subject, and which have occurred in several electorates around Brisbane. I spoke one evening in this place- I think the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also spoke- about the way some of these practices are carried out. I can recall that soon after the honourable member for Griffith came into this Parliament he took the opportunity to bemoan the problems that existed from his point of view. He believed that the Labor Party had supremacy as far as the collection of postal votes were concerned in his electorate. But of course, the situation has changed in recent times. It has changed to the extent that the Liberal Party in Griffith during the last election campaign was prepared to advertise in local newspapers and was prepared to solicit postal votes from people in the electorate of Griffith. Some advertisements were worded: 'Do you need a postal vote, electors of Griffith? You may obtain a postal vote for the election to be held on 18 May'. The advertisements went on and gave reasons for the elector to have a postal vote. They continued: 'We, the Griffith Liberal Party Committee to re-elect Don Cameron to Canberra and restore the same Government to Australia offer our assistance'. In fact, it was soliciting postal votes. 
If time permitted I could elaborate on other practices that take place in many electorates, including the electorate of Griffith. It may be possible for the honourable member for Griffith to stand here tonight and deny that he knows anything of these practices that take place in his electorate and which are put into effect to try to re-elect him to this Parliament. He may not know anything of them. He may not even know about the postal vote application forms that are prepared many months prior to the election in order to be sent out on his behalf. I am proud to say that the Minister for Services and Property proposes to abolish these malpractices by means of the proposed amendments to the Act. 
-I certainly do. I am glad to hear that interjection from the honourable member for Wimmera. In Queensland it is vitally necessary, to have a full and adequate knowledge of these malpractices. I can tell the honourable member why one gets this knowledge, particularly if one is a successful candiate. I might instance my electorate of Bowman. In the House of Representatives election in 1969, when I was elected to this Parliament, the Liberal Party polled 42. 1 per cent of the total first preference votes counted and I, the successful Labor candidate, polled 51.14 per cent. But at that election the Liberal Party gained 47.14 per cent of the postal votes whereas the Labor Party gained only 44 per cent. Let me quote another instance. In 1972 the Labor Party polled 55.2 per cent of the formal first preference votes and the Liberal Party gained a massive total of 39 per cent. But in that year the Liberal Party gained 41 per cent of the postal votes as compared with 5 1 per cent for the Labor Party. Does what I say make Country Party members opposite wonder why a Labor Party member from Queensland has to make himself aware of the malpractices that take place in regard to the postal voting in that State? 
Time this evening will not permit me to elaborate much more on that aspect. I do not have time to speak at any great length of many of the other worthwhile amendments included in this Bill that we are debating this evening. There is one other proposition upon which I congratulate the Minister. Finally voting hours are to be reduced from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., as they are at the moment, to from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. I know that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is leading for the- Opposition in this matter, shares the Labor Party's attitude on this matter. I recall the days of my closer association with him as a fellow candiate in 1966. He was a successful candidate on that occasion and at the declaration of the poll he spoke in high praise of such a change. I am sure that this evening he, on behalf of the Opposition, will support the proposal to close the polls at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. 
Finally, one other amendment that I believe is timely is the change in the deposit required of candidates. The Act requires, in relation to an election for the House of Representatives, a candidate to gain 20 per cent or one-fifth of the total number of first preference votes polled by the successful candidate in order to avoid forfeiture of his deposit paid upon nomination. The proposal is to amend the Act so that the candidate retains his deposit if the total number of votes polled in his favour as first preference votes is more than 10 per cent of the total number of first preferences polled in the election. There again, of course, it has been suggested that it is proposed to make this amendment because it will be to the advantage of the Labor Party. The Opposition has suggested that we are proceeding too quickly with all of these amendments. I have suggested to the honourable member for Moreton that he might give permission for the incorporation of a table in Hansard tonight. I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 
-After listening to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  I can state that unless one was very familiar with the situation in Queensland one could almost believe that the Government of Queensland was democratically elected. One could almost believe that on 7 December when the people of Queensland go to the polls they will have an opportunity to make a choice between the 2 opposing political parties in that State. Of course, I refer to the Australian Labor Party and the linked coalition- the National-Liberal Party coalition. But even the most realistic of the members of the Liberal Party, linked in coalition with the National Party, would agree that that is just not the situation. In fact, democracy in Queensland has been dead since the Liberal Party threw away the opportunity of a reasonable redistribution of electoral boundaries on the last occasion that Jackboots Joh, the Premier, stood over its members and forced through the Parliament a redistribution that guaranteed the preservation of his Party- the Country Party as it then was- as the leading Party in the coalition. 
Honourable members opposite cannot run away from the position. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said at that time that it was political injustice at Country Party insistence. I am sure that if the honourable member were in the chamber today he would agree with what I am saying, namely, that democracy just does not exist today in Queensland. Let us face the position: We hope that the Labor Party will win this election on 7 December. But we fully realise that this task is almost impossible for us. We have to gain about 55 per cent to 56 per cent of the votes cast to secure sufficient seats in that Queensland Parliament to become the government of the State. Members of the Liberal Party are suggesting hopefully that their Party may become the major party in the coalition. Of course, even  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland, realises that that is impossible. It is impossible because the swing that would be required against the National Party throughout Queensland would need to amount to some 15 per cent- an unprecedented shift in support at the polls- to give  Sir Gordon  Chalk supremacy over the National Party. 
Yet we hear the honourable member for Darling Downs talking in the Parliament today in 1 8th Century terms about the sovereign State of Queensland and showing the hatred that is obviously in him for this national Parliament. It is a wonder that he is even prepared to come here as a representative of the people of the Darling Downs. Perhaps sometimes he should realise that first and foremost since Federation Queensland has been part of the Australian nation, even if the Premier of Queensland will not accept the fact. This is exactly the way in which this Government wants to treat Queensland- as part of the Australian nation. That is exactly the way the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wants to treat Queensland. He wants to treat it equally with the other States in the nation. He does not wish to see this continuation of bitterness, hatred and rejection of a total national plan for the advancement of Queensland in harness with the rest of the States of the nation. 
There is another matter that I want to refer to this morning, limited though my time may be. I was amazed to find when I disclosed recently the inseparable links that exist between the League of Rights, that frightening fascist right-wing organisation, and the National Party in Queensland that it appeared obvious that there were even members of the National Party from Queensland who did not realise that those links existed in their own areas. We had the situation the other evening of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  making a personal explanation and saying that a reflection had been cast on his integrity in suggesting that because he was invited and intended to share a platform with this League of Rights spokesman,  Mr Eric 
Butler, it might be thought that he was sympathetic to the League of Rights. He said that it was similar to suggesting that he was a widower if he addressed, a meeting of widowers. What a ridiculous situation. What a ridiculous claim for him to make. All I did was disclose to this Parliament that the honourable member for Wide Bay was invited to attend the meeting. He admitted in this Parliament the other night that he intended to attend that public meeting. It was a public meeting called by the fascist right wing organisation League of Rights that publishes the journal 'Queensland Calling' for the Save Our State campaign. If the honourable member does not know about it it is about time he awakened to the facts of life in this respect. 
This public meeting was called by the Kingaroy branch of the Save Our State campaign. The honourable member was billed to be on the platform with H. J. Redding, State Director of the Save Our State campaign, who is quite openly linked with  Sir Raphael  Cilento and others who do not deny the fact that they are Eric Butler's henchmen in Queensland, Eric Butler being the leader of the League of Rights. The honourable member for Wide Bay asked: 'What was the harm in sharing a platform with these people?' and stated that if he had been there he would have attended the meeting with these people. I can assure him that I would not share any platform nor join in any public meeting with any factions of the right or left, whether they be fascists- with whom he is associated and by whom his Party is prepared to be controlled in Queensland- or communists or whatever else they might be. 
The Australian League of Rights was described by  Mr St  John, a well respected exmember of this Parliament and a recognised Australian authority on the League of Rights, in a letter he wrote and which was published in the 'Australian ' on 1 6 July 1 97 1 . It states: 
But it is, I believe, very real and very dangerous- potentially as dangerous and embarrassing to the Liberal and Country parties, and the nation, as the Communist Party has been at times to the Labor Party. It represents the other extreme. 
This morning, in referring again to this link between the National Party and the League of Rights in Queensland, I think I should state that at the moment the greatest proponents in Queensland of what we have come to know of the Petersen plan are members of the League of Rights. They distribute the literature which advocates the initiation of the Petersen plan. They constitute the organisation in the Brisbane area which, during the election campaign for the last election on 18 May, campaigned and distributed on behalf of the National Party candidate in Bowman their own pamphlets together with his throughout my electorate, just as they have claimed in another issue of the publication 'Queensland Calling' that they have the organisation in Queensland to distribute this newspaper on behalf of the National Party in Queensland. The National Party, led by the Premier of Queensland, as I have explained to the House and to members of the Australian Country Party who still sit opposite in disbelief is almost certainly assured of victory in the forthcoming election because of the gerrymandered undemocratic electoral system that the Premier has devised and implemented in Queensland. He will truly become known, as I described him at the beginning of my speech, as of same type as the Hitlers and Mussolinis we have known in the pastJackboot Joh of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer to the continued procrastination of the Queensland Minister for Health in regard to the generous offer of the Australian Government to finance the building of an urgently needed major hospital in the southern outskirts of Brisbane. I ask the Minister: Has the Queensland Government yet come round to any responsible approach to this offer or is it to be left to the Australian Government to proceed with this project without the assistance of the Queensland Health Department and the Queensland hospital system? Can he give honourable members any information so we can be reassured that this project will proceed without delay? 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Queensland Premier on a Townsville television program this week in which he claimed that he had received no answer to his plea to the Prime Minister to give the local authorities the money that they should have had some 12 months ago? 
I take this opportunity tonight in the short time available to bring to the attention of honourable members a situation which exists in Queensland in regard to hospital development. I refer particularly to the urgent need for a hospital on the southern outskirts of Brisbane and to the efforts that have been made by the Australian Government since it came to office in December 1972 to do something towards the achievement of this most urgent need. Despite its efforts and concern for the needs of the people in this area of Brisbane, the Australian Government has been continually frustrated by the Queensland Minister for Health and by the efforts of other members of the Queensland Government, including the Premier of that State, who have supported the Minister in his failure to make any real effort to bring to fruition this project which is being sought by the people of this area and sponsored and supported by the Australian Government. 
I remind honourable members that before the 1969 State election the Queensland Government promised the people of this area that a hospital would be erected. By 1972 when the next Queensland election was to be held, nothing had happened. Just prior to that State election, the Queensland Minister for Health,  Mr Doug  Tooth, made an announcement which was heralded in the Press by the headline: 'New hospital for Mt Gravatt '. The article stated: 
State Minister for Health  Mr Doug  Tooth has announced plans to build a new acute hospital for the Mt GravattSunnybank area. 
The new hospital, estimated to cost about $30m. will be built on a site in Kessels Road, Mt Gravatt. 
The interim report of the ad hoc committee was released recently following detailed investigation of the report by the Health Department. 
So much for the window dressing before the State election in 1972. 
What was the real situation when this Government came to office in December 1972? Exactly nothing more had happened in regard to that hospital. When the 1973-74 Budget of the Australian Government was brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  provision was made for $250,000 towards the cost of the planning of the hospital at Mt Gravatt. This money was to be made available by the Australian Government to assist the State Government to get somewhere with its planning for the hospital about which it had talked for so long. The Australian Government was asked why a more substantial amount of money had not been made available for similar purposes in Sydney and Melbourne. No money had been made available for anything other than the planning of this hospital. No money had been set aside by the Australian Government for the actual construction cost. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  soon illustrated that this money had not been made available because the State Government had not proceeded with its plans, in those 7 years since it had first talked about this hospital, to the stage at which construction could be commenced. The Queensland Government did not have plans of a nature substantial enough to put before the Australian Government so that an estimate of cost and of the finance needed could be made and the money provided. In a Press statement released on 6 September 1973 the Minister for Social Security said: 
The absence of any viable plans on the part of the State Government strongly suggests that either the State Government lacks adequate forward planning or just has no confidence in its ability to provide alternative hospital complex development for Brisbane. 
Twelve months later in the 1974-75 Budget, again the Australian Government was frustrated in its efforts to do something to provide money for the building of this hospital when it found that the State Government had failed even to spend the money made available 12 months previously for the planning of the hospital. Little more than $100,000 of that money had been spent by the State Government. Subsequently, in the last month or so, much has been said about this hospital, and political limelighting by the 
Queensland Minister for Health indicated that the State Government was not prepared to accept the proposals of the Australian Government but would proceed with this hospital at Mt Gravatt on its own. I was prompted to ask a question in this House yesterday of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  so that I could obtain a true indication of the real position in regard to this hospital which is urgently needed, not only for the people of this area but also as part of the whole development in the area in which the Griffith University will be very soon, I hope, proceeding with a medical school. This hospital will be needed as part of the ancillary activities of the Griffith University. The Minister was able to tell me that once again as a further illustration of the bona fides of this Government, he had given virtually an extension of time to the Queensland Government to enable it to reconsider the matter, to get on with the planning of this hospital, and to cease the procrastination in which it had engaged for so long. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to recent reports in Queensland that work on rural roads has stopped as a result of a delay in receipt of Australian Government grants due to be paid last April. 
Can he say whether the cessation of work on roads on S trad broke Island in the Electoral Division of Bowman has been attributed to this delay. 
Has there been any delay in these payments; if not, can he say why certain local authorities in Queensland have had their rural road funds stopped or curtailed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to recent press reports, e.g. the Australian Financial Review of 1 1 June 1974, that mercury contamination levels in whale meal and whale solubles used as stock and poultry feed additives are higher than critical levels prescribed by the National Health and Medical Research Council; if so, are these reports correct. 
Can he say whether (a) critically high mercury contamination levels are apparent in foodstuffs obtained from animals fed on whale meal and whale solubles supplied by Cheynes Beach Whaling Company, as claimed in submissions to the Metallic Contamination of Seafoods Subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, (b) mercury concentrations in persons consuming foodstuffs obtained from animals fed on whale meal and whale solubles could be of a critical level, (c) exports of whale solubles from Cheynes Beach Whaling Company to Japan and Hong Kong would have critical mercury contamination levels, (d) Cheynes Beach Whaling Company supplies approximately 4000 tonnes of mercury contaminated whale meal and whale solubles as additives for stock and poultry feeds to Australian farmers every year and (e) action can be taken to remove whale meal and whale solubles from the stock and poultry feed additives market if it is true, as stated by the West Australian Commissioner for Public Health to the  Chairman  of the Metallic Contamination of Seafoods Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, that these products are contaminated by critically high mercury levels. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Northern Development I refer to the Queensland Premier's threats against Japan that unless it buys beef from Australia the Queensland Government will not ratify any further coal agreements with Japan. Have any requests been made by the Queensland Government to the Australian Government for a beef income stabilisation scheme, for finance to help the cattle industry, as occurred when recent droughts prevailed, for freight concessions or for any special meatworks finance to enable meat works to open? Can the Minister outline to the 
House what action the Queensland National Party Government has taken to help the cattle industry? 
-From what we have heard from Opposition speakers so far in this debate it is not surprising to find that the Opposition still has no policy on housing. For almost a quarter of a century while the Opposition parties were in office they failed dismally to overcome the problems of housing in this nation. Never at any time did they reach a situation in which they were able to house Australian people at an economic purchase or rental price. This Government is to be complimented for the bold steps it has taken in the short time that it has been in office. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has done a fine job in moving ahead with the implementation of the Labor policy on housing. Surely it is very difficult for Opposition parties to be critical of policy in anything but a most illogical fashion when they themselves found over the long period of time in which they were in office that they could not solve the housing problems of this nation. We heard the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bouchier)  talking today again, as honourable members opposite always do, about the fear and threat to the Australian people of nationalisation of the housing industry. What a ridiculous claim that is. Although the honourable member has been in this House for only a short time, had he been involved in political affairs in this nation for a long time he would know that that sort of thing cannot be accomplished in Australia. It could not be accomplished even if it were the wish of this Government to do so. 
We heard the Opposition spokesman on housing, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  cite examples of how this legislation poses a threat for the various State housing authorities. The Minister made the position very clear in his second reading speech but it is not surprising that the honourable member did not bother to listen or even to read it before he got to his feet. The Minister said: 
Elsewhere I have said that the new Corporation is intended not to duplicate or supplant, but to complement State housing authorities. Our Government sees the work of those authorities as of cardinal importance in the creation of good living conditions for the lowest income strata of the population. 
It is a pity that something cannot be done about some of the State housing authorities. It is a pity, particularly as far as the housing authority that operates in my State of Queensland is concerned, that something cannot be done by this Government to set housing authorities on the path that they have failed to tread. In the whole of the time that the Queensland Housing Commission has operated under Liberal, Country Party, CountryNational Party or whatever governments held office in Queensland, it is my considered opinion that it has failed dismally to do the job that it should be doing in that State. 
An interjection from the honourable member for Darling Downs suggests that that is not so. Let him deny that as far as the people in Queensland who are seeking rental accommodation from the Housing Commission are concerned, their situation is absolutely hopeless. The lies that have to be told by people and the collusion that is forced on people before they are even considered, before they are even placed on the list of that Commission for consideration to receive low cost rental accommodation, has to be seen to be believed. The Queensland Housing Commission, might I say, is the most inept organisation that I know of operating under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It has failed dismally to provide attractive homes for rental or for sale to the people in that State. The most unimaginative architectural designs that I have ever seen throughout this country exist in Queensland. If through this legislation or by some other means the Minister for Housing and Construction can do something to smarten up the operations of the Queensland Housing Commission he will do a service not only to the people of Queensland but also to the people of the whole of Australia. I implore him to do whatever is possible to straighten out that Commission to show it the error of its ways and to prove to it that unless it starts to adopt a more modern approach than it has in the past it will never fulfil the role that is should be fulfilling under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Whether it be the provision of rental accommodation, homes for low income families or pensioner units, whatever aspect of the implementation of that Agreement that one looks at, the most inept administration in the Queensland Housing Commission stands out clearly in my mind. Surely it is an organisation that could well do with a bit of an example being set by this Government towards overcoming the housing needs of the people of Queensland, but that is not what this legislation is intended to do. 
I have heard again around some of the Returned Services League Clubs in Brisbane the story of the fear that is injected into the minds of people about how this legislation spells doom for the defence service homes organisation, suggesting to ex-servicemen that the Labor Government is not really interested in giving them homes under the favourable conditions which had been available in the past and that this, as has been described, is the thin end of the wedge as far as ex-servicemen are concerned; that before long defence service homes, as ex-servicemen know them today, will no longer exist. That, of course, cannot be further from the truth. The fact is that the defence service homes scheme has expanded under this Government. Provisions which have been incorporated in legislation since this Government has been in office have resulted in the taking of some bold steps that were never attempted by the last government. 
We have changed the whole philosophy and righly so because we have enabled people who were previously discriminated against, men and women who have served their country well, to come within the provisions of the defence service homes scheme. We have lifted expenditure on defence service homes from about $70m when we came into office to approximately $ 1 30m at the present time. This is a clear example of where the interest of this Governmernt lies in providing facilities for retirement to those who have given service to their country whether overseas in a theatre of war or in this country. 
Perhaps it is more appropriate for me at this stage, rather than to illustrate to the House just how much off the beam Opposition members are in their criticism of this legislation and how illogical that criticism of it is, to concentrate on and mention some aspects of the legislation through which worthwhile programs could be undertaken for the benefit of the people of Australia who for so long were neglected by the previous Governmernt when it was in office. In his second reading speech in introducing this Bill, the Minister for Housing and Construction referred to the fact that the Australian Housing Corporation would primarily be a lending institution. He also said that the Corporation would seek particularly to assist the low income earner and that its operations would not clash with those of the State housing authorities. I have already illustrated that point. But given these parameters, there is a number of areas where the Corporation could usefully become engaged. 
Firstly, it could provide finance both directly and indirectly to those people who are not properly serviced by the present financial system. In particular, it could assist the group of people whose incomes are such that they do not qualify for a loan from terminating building societies financed from home builders account money but who also are unable to afford a loan from a savings bank or a permanent building society. The Australian Housing Corporation could channel funds into terminating building societies which in turn could lend to individuals above the present cut-off limit at rates of interest above those presently charged by the terminating societies. Such action would not duplicate Australian Government welfare housing assistance which is presently provided under the housing agreement with the States. However, it would be a quick efficient means of helping the group referred to. 
Alternatively, the Australian Housing Corporation could lend directly to this group of people. It could process applications for finance, advance the money, and control the repayments. By lending directly, the problems of using a financial intermediary would vanish and assistance could be provided in those areas where the need is deemed to be greatest. Another area in which the Australian Housing Corporation could make its presence felt is the provision of second mortgage finance. Today, unfortunately, second mortgages, have become a fact of life. Few people embark upon the purchase of a home without finding the need to involve themselves in securing a second mortgage. It has been estimated that approximately one out of every 5 people who take a first mortgage today also require a second mortgage. 
Finance companies have been the major providers of second mortgage finance. Many are now in the position where they will not make new loans for some months hence. Besides, the interest rates that they have been charging are prohibitive and most burdensome to the young people who are in need of them. Therefore, the lending of second mortgage finance to help overcome the deposit gap, or lending to assist in the purchase of land, is probably one of the most useful things that the Australian Housing Corporation will be able to accomplish. 
The AHC could also be used to assist in hardship cases. I know that it will be. The direction of assistance towards people who on current incomes find that the sums that they are earning are insufficient to allow them to meet purchase instalments is well justified by the large amount of hardship which is now suffered by home buyers whose interest burden has been increased at a time when their incomes may have fallen, such as during the high level of unemployment that exists today. 
The mortgage interest tax deductibility arrangements are relatively of little benefit in the very low income cases. It is as well to note at this stage- this has been brought to my attentionthat probably a great many people who could be taking advantage of this provision are not doing so. It is probably appropriate that rather than criticise the efforts which have been made by this Government- such criticisms have come from the honourable member for Bendigo who criticised the brochure which has been put out by the Department of Housing and Construction- it should be applauded for the efforts which have been made by this Government to let the people of Australia know what is being done for them by the important innovations which have been introduced by this Government to make a great deal less burdensome than it has been in the past the obtaining of a home and paying for it. 
I understand that the forms by which the mortgage interest tax deductibility can be claimed are readily available at post offices. I would urge any young people who must meet the commitment of paying off a home today and who come within the income category specified for eligibility for that tax deductibility to obtain a form, fill it in, and make a claim to ensure that they take advantage of this real benefit that is available to them, as a result of the legislation that was passed earlier by this House. 
The Australian Housing Corporation could also become involved in the provisions or rental housing for families. Let me refer briefly to the problem facing many people in Queensland today. Perhaps honourable members are not aware that in Queensland, under the guidelines laid down by the Queensland Housing Commission, it does not matter how high is the rent a person is paying for a home, it does not matter how inadequate the accommodation is, provided a person has a roof over his or her head the Queensland Housing Commission will not even consider that person's need for State rental accommodation from Queensland Housing Commission sources. 
It is necessary for people to arrange eviction orders, to arrange for their landlords to take them to court, and to go through all the traumas of a court appearance or hearing. People must wait out the time during the period when they find that they are unable to meet their rent commitments before the Housing Commission will consider them eligible for listing on its priority schedule. Of course, many people during this time find that it is impossible to meet their loan commitments. But woe betide them if they fail in one repayment as this gives the Queensland 
Housing Commission the letout, that is. the opportunity to turn to such people and say: 'Well, you have not been a good tenant. You have not been paying for the accommodation which you have at the moment. How could we consider you as the type of tenant that we would like to put into the rental accommodation for which you have applied from our sources?' The fact of the matter is that the Queensland Housing Commission has failed to meet the needs of these people. I am very pleased to say that this is one avenue in which the Australian Government may possibly be able to assist through the Australian Housing Corporation. 
There is an acute shortage of rental accommodation throughout almost every town and city in Australia. The responsibility of overcoming this shortage, through the resources of the Australian Government, is one that I know the Minister will be only too eager to assist in. The Australian Housing Corporation, in partnership with private enterprise, will do much to alleviate the problems that exist today in providing housing for Australian families. The Australian Housing Corporation could build dwellings for people in disadvantaged groups. I instance migrants in Australia. 
It has become apparent in recent times through surveys which have been conducted by this Government that the migrants of Australia have been discriminated against by the providers of houses in most Australian States. Many migrant families find themselves unable to obtain accommodation within the price range that they can afford when they first come to this country. A great service could result from the provision of units for these groups of migrants and other disadvantaged groups within the Australian community. This could be done through the provisions of this legislation. Obviously its ability to perform in the areas that I have outlined will be dependent upon the appropriations that are made available to to it at Budget time. But it would be unrealistic to expect that it will overnight overcome all the problems that present themselves. Certainly in the initial stages it will make serious inroads into the problems that exist and have existed for many years- long before this Government came into office. 
I compliment the Minister on introducing this important, forthright and forward-thinking legislation. I am confident that the good officers who are currently operating in various sections of the Department of Housing and Construction- I know some of them associated with the defence service homes in Queensland- will be involved in the implementation of many of these important policy aspects under the new Corporation once this legislation is passed. I have the utmost confidence in the ability of these officers to start to do something to really overcome the problems confronting people today in the provision of housing in Australia. The examples that I have cited demonstrate, I am sure, quite adequately the role that the Corporation will play- a very vital role- in solving the problem of housing the Australian population. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
I take this opportunity this evening to make some remarks about a matter which was raised by the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who was the first  speaker  in the adjournment debate tonight. Surely his speech is another of the continuing examples of the disgraceful conduct of the Opposition which led to the situation which exists in this House and which we saw displayed here last week. We have the gross hypocrisy this evening of a man who was proposed to us not on one occasion but on two occasions to my memory as the ideal man to fill the speakership of this House. He was proposed to us by his colleagues as late as last week as being the ideal man to become  Speaker  of this House. An example of his hypocrisy, showing the attitude of this man to the Standing Orders and to the procedures of this House, has been amply and aptly displayed by the speech that he made. 
Might I also say that, in the closing stages of his remarks, he was prepared to admit that he had not even bothered to follow the normal courtesies of the House by notifying the honourable member for Hindmarsh, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  of his intention to make the remarks that he made here this evening.  His  excuse was the time factor. I am sure that there is no need for me to recount at any great length what led up to the situation that developed in this House last Thursday. That was done quite forcefully and quite credibly today. 
The smiles of approval by members of the Opposition and the smile of embarrassment on the face of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who sits at the table are surely indicative of the guilt that exists among so many honourable members of the Opposition with respect to their conduct in this House over a long period. I refer to conduct not only throughout the life of this Parliament but also throughout the life of the last Parliament. 
As far as I am concerned, not one member on the other side of the House can excuse himself in any way from the guilt that should be shared by all of them because of the way in which over a long period they have shown complete and utter disregard for the Standing Orders of this House. They have completely and utterly rejected the authority of the  Speaker,  elected first following the elections in 1972, without opposition, to take charge of the proceedings of this House. From those days, they embarked on a campaign to destroy the authority of that  Speaker.  If they have the opportunity, mark my words,  Mr Speaker,  the same attempt will be made by them to do to you as they did to the previous  Speaker.  I compliment the previous  Speaker  for the way in which he exercised his authority to the extent of his ability over such a long period without any semblance of assistance from anyone on the Opposition side of the House. They failed to show any respect at all for his authority in this House. Constantly and consistently actions were taken by leading members of the Opposition day after day in this House at question time. 
The corner over there has been described often by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  as cockies' corner. From the mixture of National Party and Country Party people who sit there came the chirps and the squawks. They are at it again tonight. Yet I am certain that they must have some little shame at the actions and behaviour of their Leader in this House last week as a result of which he was dealt with by the  Speaker  for deliberately failing to abide by the rulings of the  Speaker.  This evening we saw the man whom the Opposition sponsored for the position of  Speaker  last week endeavouring to belittle the actions of a Minister on this side of the chamber. 

 Mr Speaker, I am sure that you are well aware that those gentlemen from the National Party, the Country Party or the Liberal Party will once again embark on the same deliberate campaign to destroy the prestige of your position and to destroy the harmony of this House by disrupting the proceedings on every occasion that they have the opportunity. I sound that warning. We will see how long it takes for them to do exactly as I have predicted this evening. I am sure that if it does not happen this week, during the first week of April when the House will again be sitting you will start to see the first examples of it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask the Minister: Has he noted - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property in his capacity as the Leader of the House. I ask the Minister to state whether any changes are proposed to the sitting days of the Parliament, details of which were circulated to all honourable members recently. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Opposition Senators or Members are supplied with Government cars under conditions other than.those applicable to backbench Members. 
What was the total cost of cars used during (a) 1973 and ( b ) 1 974 in each case. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to week-end reports of statements by the Queensland Main Roads Minister,  Mr Hinze,  that the jobs of an estimated 2000 Queensland Government and State local authority employees mainly engaged on road works were in jeopardy as a result of Australian Government policies? Can the Minister say if this statement is correct, or has this Queensland Minister simply now reached the same peak of perfection in mishandling the truth as is so often displayed by the Queensland Premier and other National Party Ministers in that State? 
-We have heard a submission from the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  this afternoon which is typical of this indentikit Liberal, as he has been described by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  He could be described as an identikit Liberal because what he said this afternoon is not new, even though he is a relatively new member of this House. It is the same sort of thing that has been trotted out on many occasions by members of the Liberal Party of Australia when this Government has attempted to do something positive to show some form of national leadership. We heard the same old diatribe again this afternoon from the members of the Australian Country Party. Earlier this afternoon the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  talked about this legislation establishing a fearful commission which will not be answerable to Parliament. The honourable member for Bennelong talked about the legislation establishing a fourth level of government. 
Of course, the reason honourable members opposite hold these knee-shaking attitudes is because their Parties, when in government for about a quarter of a century, were never prepared to show national leadership. They were prepared to weave and wave at the whim and fancy of the various State governments. Of course, on many occasions particularly in recent years those State governments have been led by Premiers more powerful than the former government's Prime Ministers. It is a little difficult for them to understand now that a united Australian Labor Party Government is in power which is prepared to put its policies into effect. This is a Government which has announced policies which have been accepted on 2 occasions in recent years by the people of Australia. Of course, when the legislation to put these policies into effect- legislation such as the Inter-State Commission Bill introduced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)-  is introduced into the Parliament honourable members opposite sit back in wonderment and amazement and say: 'We are not really against the legislation but we would like to have it withdrawn to give us an opportunity to consider it further or to think about it to see whether it is the sort of legislation that we want to support'. 
The honourable member for Bennelong talked about the unilateral confrontation that we are having with the States. I submit that the introduction of this legislation by no means represents unilateral confrontation with the States. Previously in their history the States have been part of an Inter-State Commission. The Minister for Transport when introducing this legislation said in his second reading speech that the Commission will be very limited in its powers at this stage. He went on to say in his introductory remarks: 
However it is not the Government's intention at this time for the Inter-State Commission to operate under those provisions other than in the field of transport. 
During the debate this afternoon we have heard suggestions from Opposition speakers that this will be a fourth level of government and that it will be a level of government that will be unanswerable to Parliament. Of course, nothing could be further from the truth. This legislation is set up under the provisions of the Constitution. It was envisaged quite clearly by the founding fathers in their deliberations and was made clear in the drafting of the Constitution that an InterState Commission would be established and that the role of the Commission would be complementary to that of the Parliament, the Executive and the judiciary. We need the existence of a body such as this with the wide powers it would have to deal with interstate transport problems in the interests of all parties. These problems in transport exist today to a much greater extent than they existed some 70 years ago. But in fact they have never been faced or tackled by previous governments except for the short period of 7 years between 1913 and 1920 when the previous Inter-Sate Commission operated. 
I compliment the Minister on the introduction of the legislation. I think it is high time that such legislation was introduced. I suggest to members of the Opposition that they should have second thoughts about their attitude and that they should devote every effort possible to understanding what the legislation is about and to show some progressiveness as they are suggesting to the nation they intend to do under their recently elected leader, and support this progressive legislation that has been introduced by the Minister for Transport. 
In 1912 powers were vested in the Commissioners of the Inter-State Commission which were of a judicial nature. It is well known that it was because of those powers and the challenge that subsequently was made to those powers as being in conflict with the Constitution, the Commission did not get very far in the 7 years in which it was in office and eventually lapsed. The challenge, of course, was that the Constitution provided that any appointment of a judicial nature should not be limited by years in office but should be for life. The previous Inter-State Commission was wound eventually on this technicality in 1920 on the completion of the original 7-year term. 
I submit that it is not a new idea. Some 7 years after the original Inter-State Commission lapsed a royal commission was held in 1927. The royal commission made recommendations on the Constitution after hearing evidence and considering the revival of the Commission.  Sir Robert  Garran pointed out that the absence of the Commission prevented the Commonwealth from exercising its powers to regulate railway charges which section 102 of the Constitution made an exclusive prerogative of the Inter-State Commission. Reference was made to this very important function of the original Inter-State Commission by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  this afternoon. The royal commission in 1927 recommended the reinstatement of the Inter-State Commission with judicial powers provided by constitutional alteration, but it pointed out that even without those judicial powers the Commission would provide a valuable service. It is quite apparent and obvious, of course- even, I am sure, to the Oppositionthat such an alteration to the Constitution would be most unlikely. Of course, the legislation which has now been introduced and which we are currently considering is proposed to operate without such judicial powers as were included in the original legislation and which led to the downfall of the previous Inter-State Commission. 
Anyone who has considered the problems associated with any aspect of interstate transport today, whether it be by rail, road, sea, or air, would realise that the differences of the attitudes of the various States cannot be solved by the sort of approach that the Opposition has suggested we should be taking. It cannot be solved by simply getting a united effort from each of the States. Each State has its own attitude on these matters. None of the States will in the future be prepared to give up any of these attitudes, to compromise, to co-operate and to overcome the problems that exist in the various transport that I have named. 
This legislation, when passed by the Parliament, will in fact put the Australian Government, through the Inter-State Commission, into a position where it can show the States the leadership which in the past has been lacking in these areas. The Australian Government will be able to show the leadership to the States that will bring them to accept the need for the cooperation and co-ordination of their efforts in these areas that previously has certainly been lacking. I again compliment the Minister for bringing forward this legislation. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should step, even very briefly, out of the 1 8th century into the 19th century and realise that today's problems in the transport field can be tackled and overcome only by the Inter-State Commission. 
Finally, I remind honourable members opposite that if some of the men who represented the States in the preparation of the Constitution had the type of thinking that they are exhibiting Australia would still be made up of 6 separate States instead of being one nation. There is no doubt that Australia, under this Labor Government, will go forward as one nation provided that the Opposition does not put forward in the other place in this Parliament where it has the majority the negative thinking that has been put forward by it in this House, which would have the effect of blocking the passage of this legislation. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Health to my continuing interest in the Australian Government's offer to finance the building of a major suburban hospital in the Brisbane suburb of Mount Gravatt and the prolonged negotiations with the Queensland Government. I ask the Minister whether he can report to me and to other honourable members any further progress in those negotiations. 
-The contribution to the debate by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  did not, of course, contain any surprises, not even when he got to the stage at which he decided to denigrate the job done by the distribution commissioners. Surely the most disgraceful example that any honourable member has ever heard was to be heard when the honourable member said this afternoon in this House that if the Australian Labor Party's candidate at the last election, Clem Jones, had won the seat of Griffith the result of this redistribution would have been different from what it has been. I hope he will be prepared to look at the Hansard tomorrow and that he will realise exactly what he said. 
Further on in his speech he made reference to the Commissioners and said he would not denigrate or criticise them. Of course, very often he says things that he does not even realise he is saying, so free is he with words. We had an example of this this afternoon when he criticised the Commissioners over that particular issue and the abolition of the seat of Griffith. There is one reason, and one reason alone, why he, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and other members of the Liberal Party in this House have determined that they are going to oppose the redistribution proposals. The whole country knows that the reason is that the Country Party in this House is standing over them to the same extent as for years it has stood over them in the Queensland sphere. 
I remind the members of the Liberal Party in this place that when these redistribution proposals were disclosed earlier this year, the Leader of the Country Party in this House and the State Secretary of the Country Party in Queensland did not wait 5 minutes to confer with the Liberal Party before making an announcement indicating the attitude of the National Party in Queensland- as it was then known- towards the redistribution proposals. I suppose that party is now known as the National Country Party, in line with the changes made in the other States. Members of the National Party immediately announced that they were going to vote against the proposals and reject them. The only reason they reject them is that they believe the redistribution would be disadvantageous to their political future and the only way they could save the day for the coalition would be by standing over the Liberal Party and forcing it to toe the line on this redistribution, as they so successfully have done over a number of years in Queensland. 
I remind the honourable member for McPherson that in respect of this redistribution it is just as true to say what he said when the last redistribution was carried out in Queensland. I refer to an editorial in the 'Australian' of 30 March 1971, in which he was reported to have stated that the redistribution was 'electoral injustice at Country Party insistence'. I suggest he might like to reflect on that. If he could come forward and truthfully make the type of speech in this House today that his conscience would dictate to him- that the advantage to his own Party would dictate to him- he would say the same now as he said then. But instead of that, with tongue in cheek and I am sure, very reluctantly, he made the type of speech that he made some few minutes ago, explaining in a very lame fashion why the Liberal Party saw this as an unjust redistribution and why it believed the redistribution should be opposed. 
He said and others have said that it is not time for the redistribution; that it should be done after the next Census. But I remind those honourable members of what happened in 1971 when the Census was carried out. The Country Party stood over the Liberal Party on that occasion and prevented a redistribution from being carried out, correct though it might have been in those days to have a redistribution. The Country Party is standing over the Liberal Party again today and preventing it from supporting a fair, equitable and unbiased redistribution. I refer not only to the redistribution proposed for Queensland, but also to the redistribution proposals for the entire 5 States- the two that were considered yesterday and the three we will be considering today. The decision of the Opposition to oppose the redistribution proposals could not honestly be made on any basis whatsoever. Of course, it has been made dishonestly because of the attitude of the Country Party. 
This is a far cry from the days when the honourable member for Griffith was associated with the Young Liberals. I suppose it would be embarrassing to him if I were to remind him that the acknowledged policy of the Young Liberals in Queensland is, in fact, totally in line with the legislation under which these redistribution proposals have been put to this House. I remind him by quoting from a document that was published in 1973 entitled 'Towards a New Freedom'- I suppose the word 'freedom' does not have much place in the parent Liberal Party in Queensland, even if it means something to the Young Liberals in Queensland. At that time they passed a resolution which said they would include in their policy:  ... the establishment of a continuing independent electoral commission which would distribute seats with an allowable variation of not more than 10 per cent in the number of voters. 
That is an honest approach and it has been put forward by the younger people in the Liberal Party. I hope that before long their position of power and influence in the Liberal Party might be able to change the attitude that currently is presented in this House by the members of the Liberal Party who have spoken on the redistribution proposals. There is no doubt that, long before the Commissioners ever met, the decision was made by the National Country PartyCountry Party, as it was then known- that the redistribution proposals would be opposed every inch of the way. This was despite the fact that when the proposals were announced earlier this year the great suburban daily in Brisbane, the ' Courier-Mail ', came out and said in its editorial: 
The proposed redistribution of Queensland Federal electorates has many sound points . . . 
The Redistribution Commissioners, quite fairly- 
I remind the honourable member for Griffith that, despite what he said this afternoon about the Commissioners, even the 'Courier-Mail', for which he so often gets on his feet in this House and offers words of praise, said in its editorial: 
The Redistribution Commissioners, quite fairly, have put the seats where the people are. The Labor and Liberal Parties favour this principle. 
But this afternoon members of the Liberal Party foresook that principle at the insistence of the National Country Party. The honourable member for Griffith nods his head in complete agreement with me because he is embarrassed by the fact that he is a Liberal member who has been forced to bow to the demands of the National Country Party. I have already indicated the attitude of the 'Courier-Mail'. I remind the honourable member for Griffith, if he is not prepared to accept it already, that some more enlightened members of the Liberal Party in Queensland, including one recently elected to the State Parliament, warned the executive of the Liberal Party recently that a swing against the State Government in the next election could see the Liberal Party being the only party to lose seats. He said this was because the National Country Party had managed to convince people in metropolitan areas that the National Country Party was Queensland 's governing party. The only party to lose in the long term because of the attitude being taken by the Opposition in respect of these redistribution proposals will be the Liberal Party. 
It is a narrow-minded, short term attitude of political expediency that members of the Liberal Party have taken today in allowing themselves to be dictated to by the Country Party. 
We heard earlier that the redistribution would be to the advantage of the Labor Party in Queensland. My colleague, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  reminded the honourable member for Griffith that this was not so. In fact, on the assessment that I have seen of the situation which would result from a transfer of the votes cast in the 1974 election to new boundaries, the Labor Party would hold 6 seats out of eighteen. Might I say that the marginal seats that the Labor Party held prior to the last election and that would be threatened by this redistribution were the seats of Lilley and Wide Bay. They will not be made any easier for us to win back under these redistribution proposals. Some of the seats that we currently holdnamely, Dawson, Leichhardt and Capricorniawill not be made any easier for us to hold in the future under these redistribution proposals. I refer now to the seat of Petrie. It had grand representation in this Parliament for a short period of time by the ex-member for Petrie. I reminded him of the tactics that were likely to take him away from this scene, and they have done so since. That seat is now represented by his colleague who knocked him off in the last preselection ballot in Petrie. The seat will not be made any easier for us to win under the redistribution proposals. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  might have a better chance of escaping the wrath of Marshall Cooke  ii  he supports the redistribution proposals rather than votes against them today. 
Today we are seeing that in the Federal sphere the Liberal Party at last has succumbed to the demands of the National Country Party. The situation that has existed in Queensland is such that the Liberal Party in the State sphere can never hope to gain the position of strength in the Queensland coalition that it should be able to demand according to the number of votes it receives in the elections. It is a well known fact that  Sir Gordon  Chalk regards the Premier of Queensland as nothing more than a bad dream. He hopes that one morning he will wake up and find that the dream has gone. If anything can be done by the Liberal Party in Queensland to overcome the unfair advantage that the National Party has in that State sphere, it should have been done before the last redistribution proposals in Queensland were passed. It is an equally well known fact that the Liberal Party in Queensland will never again be a major party in the State sphere. 
But now on the national scene the Liberal Party under the leadership of the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown that it is prepared to accept from the National Country Party in the federal sphere the same stand-over tactics as it has accepted in Queensland for so many years. Today we have the joint effort of the great partners in the Opposition coalition to vote against these proposals which on no honest assessment could be considered to be anything but the most fair and unbiased proposals that could be put forward by any commissioners. I refer not only to the proposals that were put forward by the commissioners in Queensland but also to the proposals in each other case that we have been and will be considering on this occasion. There is no doubt at all that it cannot reasonably be argued that the Government has not a mandate to initiate these changes. On 2 separate occasions this policy, this proposal, was supported by the people: The result of that support is contained in the redistribution proposals we are considering. It is a reflection on the wishes of the people of this nation that because the Opposition has the numbers in the other House- a House which has no responsibility as far as boundaries are concerned and a House in respect of which the principles that determine the people who will represent the States there cannot be dictated by the House of Representatives- it proposes to reject these proposed redistributions. The Opposition members in this place have got together and said that they are prepared to use the numbers they have in the Senate to reject the wishes of the people, to reject the policy of the Australian Labor Government which was endorsed by the people, and to reject this redistribution. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to statements by  Mr Lee,  the Queensland Minister for Works and Housing, on the operation of the Regional Employment Development scheme in Queensland, alleging that it is necessary to dismiss employees of the State Department of Works through lack of funds and to re-employ them immediately on the same work under the RED scheme? Is there any truth in this allegation by  Mr Lee,  particularly in the part where he claims that the situation has been brought on by pure socialism and centralism? Can the Minister give the true facts about this problem? 
I take this opportunity this evening to place on record my disgust at the paltry attitude of the Queensland Government in respect of the special grants allocated to it by the Australian Government for health projects in Queensland. I refer particularly to several projects in my electorate of Bowman. The position can be summed up only by saying that the State Government Department of Health is pursuing a policy of complete deceit in relation to the grants it is receiving from the Australian Government. 
-The instances that I can give reflect this deceit in a wide variety of different areas. I know that the honourable member for Griffith does not spend much time in the House; but if he likes to spare a few moments and stay in the House I will give an instance of a community health project which is just on the border between his electorate and my electorate and which is a typical example of this deceit. The grants to which I refer are completely without strings. Consequently, the deceit can be attributed only to the acute embarrassment felt by the Queensland Health Minister,  Dr Edwards,  who currently is presiding over the expenditure of more than $1 1.5m from Australian Government sources for these projects. Of course, this current embarrassment will be greatly accentuated next financial year when the Medibank scheme will be introduced. This will channel an additional $50m into the Queensland hospital system. There is no doubt, of course, that this money will be made available. Similarly, of course, there is no doubt that the scheme will be introduced in Queensland, despite the reluctance of the paranoid Queensland Premier to accept the fact that something good can come from the Australian Government. 
The glaring examples on which I want to touch briefly this evening exists in my electorate and, as I indicated, the electorate adjacent to my electorate which included the community health centre at Cannon Hill. Firstly, I refer to the Mount Gravatt Hospital, which has now reached the planning stage. Tenders will soon be called. I understand that the project is due to commence the construction stage early next year. I was given this information by the Australian Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  some weeks ago in reply to a question I asked him in the House. An amount of $96,000 was allocated by the Australian Government in the 1974 Budget for planning and research for hospitals in Queensland which, of course, includes the planning of the Mount Gravatt Hospital. This followed the allocation of $250,000 in the previous year for acquiring the site and for the preparation of plans for the hospital. Yet the Queensland Government, throughout negotiations with this Government, has said nothing except that it did not want the Australian Government to interfere in its overall hospital development plans for the Brisbane area, long drawn-out though they have been. Since the matter has virtually been settled there has been no statement from the Queensland Government. The only reference that has been made to this very important project and to the health needs of all of the citizens, on the south side of Brisbane particularly, has been the statement made by the Australian Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in this House in reply to a question I asked. Of course, naturally, this received no publicity in Queensland. 
The initial stage of the hospital which will be built on a site along Kessels Road, Mount Gravatt, will provide 200 obstetric beds. Another example of the deceitful attitide of the Queensland Health Department and particularly  Dr Edwards,  the Minister, is the recent announcement of a site for a community health centre in Clara Street, Wynnum. This centre is due to open within the next few weeks, following the negotiation of a lease of a property owned by the Bank of New South Wales. But when the announcement was made  Dr Edwards  conveniently made no mention whatsoever of the role that had been played by the Australian Government in the establishment of this community health centre. It is as well for me to remind honourable members and place on record that this project has been made possible only because of the allocation by the Australian Government of $55,650 as the full capital cost needed to establish the centre and a percentage of the running costs in the first 12 months. This project was announced by  Dr Everingham  on 6 February this year. 
The deceit of the Queensland Government goes further as far as community health projects in the Brisbane area are concerned. I can instance one in which the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has displayed his disinterest this evening by not being prepared to listen to the example that I am now about to mention- 
His failure to show an interest in this- 
The project at Cannon Hill was funded by the Australian Government to the extent of $108,915. The Minister for Health made an announcement in this respect in November last year. But so far, very secretively, very quietly and carefully, whatever has been proceeding in regard to the establishment of this community health centre has just been kept very quiet, absolutely quiet by the Queensland Government. It has been kept so quiet, of course, that the people in the area who have been dependent upon this vital need for their health facilities do not yet know when the centre will commence operation. 
When the contract was awarded for the Wynnum Nursing Care Unit, construction of the second stage of which is now proceeding, an announcement was made in the 'Courier-Mail' and much publicity appeared in that and other Brisbane daily papers and the various metropolitan give-away papers in my electorate such as the Wynnum Herald' which is widely sold in a section of my electorate, but again conveniently no mention whatsoever was made of the part that the Australian Government was playing in the development of this aged persons home, which I think is a more correct way to refer to it. The second stage was made possible once again, as has been the case with other projects, by the allocation of funds by the Australian Government. In the case of this project the funds provided by the Australian Government in the last Budget amounted to $1.2m. To add insult to injury, as far as this project is concerned, a very large sign now appears on the street frontage proclaiming that it is being built by the Queensland Government and lauding the great contribution that the Queensland Government is making to the health needs of our elderly citizens. Of course, no mention is made of the assistance given by the Australian Government for this important project. 
My complaint is not that the Australian Government should receive approbation for its assistance. It is not that the Australian Government seeks to receive notoriety about the provision of funds it has given for projects for the health care of the people of Brisbane. In fact we readily admit that, as the Queensland Premier so often acclaims, we are simply giving back to Queensland in many instances taxpayers' money. But I believe that the people of Queensland have a right to know how their money is being spent. I believe it is only fitting and right and just that when Australian Government funds are being expended in these joint projects, particularly in projects where the bulk of the finance is being made available by the Australian Government, the Queensland Government or any other State government should be courteous enough to let people in the area know that funds have been made available by the Australian Government. The recognition of the source of that money is simply common courtesy. We have a situation today in which most of the State governments, particularly the Queensland Government, spend most of thentime telling the people what a terrible government they have in Canberra. Surely the Queensland Government should have a little bit of honesty and decency and throw away the distasteful practices of the past and let the people of Queensland know just how CommonwealthState financial arrangements are working. There is a very happy arrangement in this respect as far as the projects that I have referred to tonight are concerned. 
I wish to take just a few moments to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  He referred to various clauses of the Bill, but summing up the remarks I think it could best be said that what he has sought to do. is to suggest that the problems that exist in shipbuilding today as a result of the efforts of the Government over 2 years can be laid at the feet of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who for the most part during the term of office of this Government has been responsible for that industry. Might I say that the industry was surely in the doldrums in December 1972 when the Australian Labor Party came in to office. In various ways subsidies have been given to the shipbuilding industry since 1947 but never at any time was any genuine and consistent effort made by the previous government to give the shipbuilding yards in Australia any indication that the Government had any desire to see shipbuilding a viable industry. The industry was never really given any chance to develop new techniques. It was never given any assurance that it had a secure future. This is the reason why over a long period we saw so many of the shipyards of Australia fall behind the standard of technology that was available in other shipyards throughout the world. 
This Bill will place the shipyards of Australia on a stable footing. Despite what has been said by the honourable member for Gippsland, this Bill for the first time will give the ship construction industry in Australia a secure future. It is all very well for the honourable member to quote statistics and suggest that what this Government is doing is concentrating in a different way on smaller ships, and because of this the tonnage that is being constructed today and subsidised by this Government does not compare with the tonnage that was being constructed in the latter years of his term of office as Minister responsible. But of course we have sought to increase the range of subsidy, and in so doing we have given some of the smaller yards an opportunity that the Government of which he was a member denied them over the years when the former Government was responsible for this great industry. Let me say that in the provisions of the legislation relating to the phasing out of the bounty, the encouragement is there in very clear terms for the shipbuilding industry over a period to become a viable industry. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
-In concluding the remarks on this Bill that I commenced last evening, I want to speak for a few moments about the current situation at the Evans Deakin Industries Ltd shipyard in Brisbane. I am particularly concerned about the viability of the industry in this shipyard, because it remains the only major yard engaged in ship construction in Queensland and I for one believe that it is most essential that shipbuilding remain in the State of Queensland. However, so far as I can ascertain from the information that I have been able to obtain, there seems to be a lack of interest on the part of the Evans Deakin management in continuing in shipbuilding. Of course, during the many years for which the previous Government controlled this industry it did not at any time give Evans Deakin- or, for that matter, any other shipyard in Australia- any confidence in the future of the industry. Like the previous Government 's policies in so many respects, its policy regarding the future of the industry was a stop-go policy. There was never any confidence on the part of the management or the trade unions engaged in shipbuilding that there was a secure future. 
As I said last evening, when the present Government came into office in December1972, ship construction in Australia, particularly in respect of Evans Deakin, was completely in the doldrums. The position at present is much worse and that position is not in any way, shape or form due to the actions of this Government. I think that that should be made absolutely clear. The management of Evans Deakin has shilly-shallied during the past few years in respect of its own intentions about staying in shipbuilding. As long ago as April1973 the management said in its annual report that if no further orders were forthcoming the shipyard would close in August. However, owing to the actions of this Government at that stage and since then, particularly in securing the contract for the Santa Fe oil rig for that company, it has been able to stay in shipbuilding, but still today the situation is that there has been no clear and definite statement from the management that it wants to continue in shipbuilding or that it has any plans to remain in operation at the shipyard at Kangaroo Point. There has been talk that the company may move the shipyard down the river, but the position as to that also is quite indefinite. The company announced at its annual meeting on 10 October 1974 that it would withdraw from conventional shipbuilding and concentrate on ship repair, offshore rigs andthe servicing of vessels, but since then there have been other statements by the management. It advised the Government that it was still its intention to remain interested in the appropriate types of conventional shipbuilding. 
In early April this year the Trades and Labour Council in Queensland was so concerned about the future of shipbuilding at the Evans Deakin shipyard that it wrote to me- I know that the Council also wrote to the Prime Minister and contacted other Ministers- in regard to the forward program of orders, and expressed at that stage its belief that unless immediate orders were given to the company the yard must close down before many months. Already at that stage the rundown of staff was under way as the Santa Fe oil rig neared completion. Of course, the work force was down to the last100 or so workers and the closure of the yard seemed imminent. I understand that since then, in the past couple of months, no real effort has been made by the Evans Deakin management to secure future shipbuilding contracts. At this stage it is probably too late for the company to secure an order and keep the yard going. There is no doubt at all that the yard will have to reach an almost total closure position even if the company is successful in regard to any of the tenders currently open and being considered. I accuse the management of not being interested in a future shipbuilding program. Because it has not been interested in a future shipbuilding program and has not been prepared to accept the responsibility for that decision, it is trying to blame this Government. 
It would be of no advantage to this Government to see the closure of this yard, yet it appears at the moment that there is no alternative to such a closure within the next few months. In recent years it has been obvious that Evans Deakin has not been able to compete on the open market for shipbuilding contracts. It has even been suggested at times- some sections of the trade union movement have suggested it- that this Government should take action to secure contracts for Evans Deakin, but I would not condone that action for one moment and I am sure that even the Opposition would not suggest that that sort of patronising and protectionist attitude should be adopted by this Government. The previous Government was not prepared to do it. I am sure that members of the Opposition would not suggest that we should engage on that type of a program to secure future shipbuilding contracts for Evans Deakin Industries Ltd when without doubt the management has been incapable of winning contracts in open competition. 
Unless the management is prepared to tackle that problem and to face the keen competition that exists from other shipyards and secure contracts for its shipyard the yard faces inevitable and certain closure within the next few months. It is impossible for the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and this Government to do anything at all to prevent that happening, particularly, I repeat, because of the attitude of the Evans Deakin management in recent years in failing to be definite in its plans and to be absolutely positive in its efforts to compete with other Australian shipyards and to secure contracts for the workers of Evans Deakin and to preserve that industry in Queensland. 
I know that the honourable member for Griffith is very edgy about this. So he should be edgy. The problems that exist at that shipyard were created in the days of his Party's government. The technological needs of Evans Deakin were never brought up to date because the management had no security and no backing from the previous Government to ensure that it would have a secure and viable industry. So it ran down over the years progressively - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to be personally associated with the condolence motion in respect of my late colleague and close friend,  Senator Bert  Milliner. I wish to record my deep sympathy to his widow, Thelma; to his sons, Des and Glen; to his daughters, Valda and Jan; and to their families. Bert came into my office at approximately 1 1.45 a.m. on Monday, 30 June. He went away and returned at about 12.10 p.m. On each occasion, as always, he had a happy and friendly greeting for the girls in my office. He stayed and spoke to me until about 12.20. He talked of current political events. As usual, he was well informed and wise in his comments because, as always, he was intensely interested and involved. Within 10 minutes of his leaving I rushed to his office in answer to a call by his secretary and together we were with him as he quietly passed away, most fittingly, as he had lived for many years, working for his fellow Queenslanders. 
Reference has been made by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the National Country Party to the disgraceful performance of certain sections of the media at the cremation service of  Senator Milliner.  I will say no more than that. As one who was present and, I am sure, like the Prime Minister and so many others, particularly  Senator Milliner's  family, I was disgusted to see how the filming of those events was used, particularly by Channel 2 in its television program that evening. 
It will be a lifelong fond memory of mine that I was regarded by Bert as one of his friends. He was in every sense a gentleman,  strong-willed,  determined when necessary, capable, understanding and tolerant. I could go on and aptly describe him in many other ways as the gentleman that so many honourable senators know that he was. I conclude by saying that a great number of his fellow Queenslanders, particularly those in the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party which he served for so many years, will always look back in the knowledge that our lives have benefited in many ways from  Senator Milliner's  efforts during his life. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Following the representations which have been made on several occasions recently by myself and my colleague the honourable member for Brisbane, is he in a position to indicate to honourable members any action which the Government may have initiated in regard to the present situation with shipbuilding in Queensland where Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has decided to terminate the operations of the Kangaroo Point shipyards? I remind the Minister of suggestions which I have made to him and which have been in line with the Government taking the initiative to develop a new shipbuilding complex at the mouth of the Brisbane River. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister advise whether (a) the Australian Commissioner to the International Whaling Commission in 1974 voted to support a quota of 300 of Fin whales in the North Pacific Ocean at the plenary session, (b) this motion was carried, as reported in the press, (c) a motion for a zero quota on this stock was lost at the plenary session, (d) the Australian Commissioner voted against the zero; if so why, (e) the Soviet delegate had made it known he would support a zero quota, as reported by a conservationist adviser on the American delegation (f) the Fin whale was recommended as an endangered species in 1973 and (g) the Australian Commissioner voted in 1973 to bring about a cessation of Fin whale killing. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. I ask: Do the guidelines for the community health programs recommended by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and adopted by the Australian Government as policy, clearly envisage that local communities should be involved in the planning, initiation and management of community health centres? If so, could the Minister inform the House of the funds made available to the Queensland Government for community based health services, the extent of community involvement in Queensland community health centres and particularly whether the Queensland Government is adhering to the Australian Government policy of community involvement in community health centres? 
I must say that I was not surprised to hear the attitude taken by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I know that he has always taken a fairly responsible attitude in these matters. I know that he has been doing everything possible to influence his Liberal colleagues in the State Parliament to take an equally responsible attitude on this issue. I was delighted to see that two of the Liberal members-  Mr Hewitt,  the member for Chatsworth and  Mr Kaus,  the member for Mansfield- who represent State electorates in my electorate were men of principle who had the decency last week to support the attitude that the man to be endorsed for the casual vacancy in the Senate should be  Dr Colston,  the Labor nominee. They were two of the three Liberals who indicated such support. It has been suggested by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  today that this motion is a waste of the time of the House. I would say that it is not a waste of the time of the House. It is a pity, of course, to think that the need existed for such a motion as the one before us to be debated in the House today. This motion seeks to give honourable members the opportunity to endorse a fundamental principle of our democracy, to support our Constitution and the accepted convention which has in recent times been rejected by one State Premier and now stands threatened by another. 
Today honourable members will be given the opportunity to support the principle that casual Senate vacancies should be filled by a person of the same political party as the late or ex-senator whose seat is vacant. It conforms basically to a similar resolution debated in the Senate on 12 and 13 February of this year following the disgraceful decision of the Liberal Premier of New South Wales to appoint what he falsely tagged as a 'political neuter' to replace retired Labor senator, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, who was appointed to the High Court On that occasion the Senate carried the resolution unanimously. I hope, and I would believe from what has been said here today, that this chamber will do likewise. 
The fact that there has been a need to debate this matter in the Parliament is regrettable. However, it is vitally necessary to do so because of the political and biased attitudes that have been stated publicly by the Premier of Queensland in the latest of his paranoid rantings and because later today the Queensland Parliament for the second time will consider the filling of the casual vacancy caused by the sudden death of  Senator Bert  Milliner, my late colleague on 30 June. The often quoted but nevertheless valid words uttered by William Pitt in the House of Lords in 1770 that 'power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely' are significantly true of the situation in Queensland today. There is no doubt that because of the evil influence of the Premier of Queensland the situation exists whereby unless the Labor nominee,  Dr Mai  Colston, is endorsed by the Parliament this afternoon a non-Labor senator will be sent to represent Queensland in this Parliament 
To summarise the attitude taken by the power drunk Queensland Premier, it is important to reflect that within hours of  Senator Milliner's  death he took the attitude that he would keep his options open. In his first public statement he clearly equivocated in regard to the replacement of the Labor senator by a new Labor senator from Queensland. The double standard that he has adopted in this matter can be clearly illustrated from 2 letters, copies of which I have in my possession and which were quoted by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  today. I will quote them again to make it abundantly clear that the Queensland Premier takes a different attitude when it is a Labor vacancy from the attitude which he adopts when the vacancy occurs within the ranks of the coalition parties in Queensland. 
He might have good reason, but it is up to him to illustrate that reason clearly and to show why he adopts this double standard. Perhaps his only reason is that that is the type of man he is. We cannot trust him in issues such as this. When honesty and decency are called for it is left to the Leader of the Liberal Party to show that he is prepared to take a decent and honest approach. But that is not the case with the Premier. Perhaps that is his reason. It is for turn to answer. I refer to 2 letters written by the Premier, the first to the then Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament. The letter, dated 3 1 May 1971, was signed by the Premier and was addressed to  Mr Houston.  It said: 
As you know, the accepted practice when a casual vacancy of this nature occurs is for the new senator to be of the same political party as his predecessor and I have asked the Queensland Division of the Liberal Party of Australia to advise me, as quickly as possible, of the name of the person they wish to nominate on this particular occasion. 
The double standard is shown in 1975 when a Labor man is required to fill the casual vacancy in the Senate. On 17 July the Premier wrote to the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bums,  and said: 
The generally accepted practice when a vacancy of this nature occurs is for the new senator to be of the same political party as his predecessor. 
That point has been made today. It has been suggested that that obligation and undertaking will be fulfilled this afternoon. But I will illustrate in a few moments that that cannot possibly be so unless the Labor nominee is appointed by the Queensland Parliament In that letter of 17 July  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  went on to say: 
To this end therefore, I should appreciate your advising me as soon as possible the names of 3 persons whom your Party would be prepared to nominate for the election of one of them by the Parliament to fill the present casual Senate vacancy. 
For the benefit of honourable members, in accordance with what I believe to be the ready agreement of the honourable member for McPherson, I seek leave to have the full text of these letters incorporated in  Hansard. 
There is no doubt that the present attitude of the Queensland Premier, his demand that the Labor Party submit more than one name for the vacancy, is part of a double standard warranting the most severe condemnation by this House. This motion seeks to give all honourable members the opportunity to do that. It seeks to give members of the Liberal Party an opportunity to support the stand taken by the State  President  of the Liberal Party,  Mr Moore,  who said yesterday, and I quote from the Brisbane  Telegraph  of yesterday afternoon:  . . . the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  was damaging the coalition parties over the Colston affair. 
The motion gives him an opportunity to show his concern for the damage to his Party and to the coalition Party in Queensland. It gives the Liberal and National Country parties an opportunity to disown the attitude taken by the Premier of Queensland who seeks to create the impression that it is his intention to recommend that a Labor senator replace the late  Senator Milliner  in this Parliament and yet who puts upon the Labor Party and the Parliament such conditions which, if met, would mean that only one man could come here as a Labor senator. 
It gives the Liberal Party here, and particularly its members from Queensland, an opportunity to support the Liberal Leader in the State Parliament and  Deputy  Premier of Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. I congratulate him on his clearly stated attitude right from the time when the first public statement was made by the Premier of Queensland who, as I have illustrated, left his options and the options of his Party open.  Sir Gordon  Chalk was prepared to say right from the start that he believed that convention should be followed and that a Labor nominee should be appointed to fill the casual Senate vacancy. Whilst I pay tribute to  Sir Gordon  Chalk, I believe that he should have gone a lot further than he has been prepared to go. He has given his Party members a free vote on this issue but he should have been prepared to show the quality of leadership that we could have expected from him at one time before he became completely subdued by the Premier. He should have ensured that there was a Party vote from the Liberal 
Party in the State Parliament to support the decent attitude that he has declared publicly he intends to adopt. 
Time does not permit me to mention the disgraceful performance of a young Liberal member in the Queensland Parliament who abused parliamentary privilege. In the debate in the Queensland Parliament last week he took the opportunity, being in possession of lettersperhaps he came by them in an underhand or illegal fashion- to assassinate the character and perhaps to destroy the political future of  Dr Colston.  It is worth while mentioning that the only notable State politician who has been prepared to support him has been the Premier of Queensland. He has not been supported by his own leader, understandably enough. This morning it was stated on the radio that the Premier of Queensland thought that  Mr Byrne,  the Liberal member for Belmont, had taken a correct stand last week and was to be commended. He said that he had the utmost respect for  Mr Byrne.  I am afraid that not many of his colleagues share that respect. I am sure that  Mr Byrne,  young as he is, will ultimately realise the damage he has done to his own political career. 
It must be clearly understood by aU honourable members before they vote on this issue today that, if they intend to stick by the principle that has been expounded by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who suggested that the Queensland Premier wishes to send a Labor senator to replace the late  Senator Milliner  in this Parliament that can be done only by members in the State Parliament and by themselves here today supporting the election of  Dr Mai  Colston. I will explain it this way: Only one Labor senator can come to this Parliament to replace the late  Senator Milliner.  No other Labor member or ex-Labor member can be endorsed by the Queensland Parliament to come to this Parliament as a Labor senator. Even though anybody who may be endorsed by the Queensland Parliament may have been a member of the Labor Party, even though he or she may currently be a member of the Labor Party, every member of that Party in Queensland knows- as does every member, I am sure, of the Queensland Parliament as enough publicity was given to the decision when it was made- that no genuine Labor person can accept nomination against the choice of the Labor Party, in this case  Dr Colston. 
Furthermore, the Party has made it quite clear that should any person be forced or persuaded by the Queensland Premier to do so, that person would no longer be considered to be a Party member; that person would be automatically expelled from the Party and would cease to be a member of the Party. That would occur simply by the acceptance of the offer to put the name of that person forward in the Queensland Parliament. So, at the time when such a nomination was being considered by the Queensland Parliament, the person nominated would have ceased to be a member of the Australian Labor Party and could not then come to this Parliament as a Labor senator. 
There is no doubt about that fact. Let it be made perfectly clear. Let it be understood by all members here that that situation cannot exist. No person other than  Dr Mai  Colston can be selected by the Queensland Parliament as a Labor senator to replace the late Labor senator, Bert Milliner. With that in mind, I suggest that honourable members will see the situation with clarity, Will note how ridiculous is the amendment moved by the Leader of the National Country Party and Will take the opportunity to show that they are men of principle by supporting the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Opposition Senators or Members are provided with facilities by the Government other than those provided for backbench Members. 
What are these facilities, including staff, offices, equipment, furniture and all other relevant details, and what was the cost of these items during 1 973 and 1 974 in each case. 
3 ) Where are the various offices situated in each case. 
What was the (a) area, (b) rental per unit square and (c) total annual rental in 1 973 and 1 974 in each case. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I ask: Is there strong supp'ort in the community for the concept of wage indexation? Does the Government adhere to the belief that wage indexation will assist in stabilising inflationary pressures? Can he say whether there has been any concerted opposition to the Government's policy on wage indexation from any particular source or from any combination of interests? 
-In the few moments left to me I should like to pass some kind remarks and thank the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for the affectionate way in which he spoke about my electorate. I know the affection he has for my electorate and the amount of time he spends there and in the electorate of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  He has the same affection for his electorate. It is a pity the people in his own electorate do not see a bit more of him. But of course we forgive him. I appreciate that he has a large electorate and it is difficult for him to cover. It is much more enjoyable for him to spend his time in the places that he is able to get around more readily and enjoy himself. 
There are some important and interesting sporting facilities in my electorate that he desires to attend. He reminded me of that today. I do not take it from him. He is welcome to those facilities at any time he likes to attend them. However, I think it must be brought out that it is rather hypocritical of him to speak in this chamber today as he did about a redistribution that in all fairness seeks to give the people of Queensland equal representation. It seeks to take away the type of distribution of Federal electorates that exists in Queensland at the moment. Of course I am sure that we all admit that that type of distribution is not quite as blatant and as gerrymandering - 
-The reference made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to the situation in Queensland brings me to a point which it is as well to make on this occasion, as we were reminded by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  we are discussing the Federal redistribution in Queensland. The point I want to make in respect of that redistribution is that the Liberal Party in this Parliament is being led by the nose by the National Country Party of Australia in exactly the same way as it allowed itself to be led when the redistribution to which the Minister was referring took place in Queensland in 1 97 1 . In 1 97 1 the Liberal Party in Queensland, after a valiant effort by 8 members, finally allowed itself to be completely submerged - 
I am drawing a comparison between the situation in Queensland in 1971 when the Liberals- it was acknowledged by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who nodded his head - 
-On that occasion, exactly the same thing happened as is happening in this Parliament. The Liberal Party has been prepared to allow the Country Party- perhaps I should say the National Country Party, or the National Party in Queensland, to bring up to date the term now being used to describe that Party and its new image today- to stand over it with the result that it will reject these redistribution proposals even though members of the Liberal Party know that the redistribution is fair to their Party. The redistribution proposals as they affect Queensland would give the Liberal Party a better opportunity than it has at the moment of representing more seats than the Labor Party. Members of the Liberal Party know full well that in respect of Queensland this redistribution is a fair, honest and reasonable one. 

 Mr Speaker, there is no question of this fact: The National Country Party announced its attitude to this redistribution before the distribution commissioners were appointed. The National Country Party said that it knew that the basis of the redistribution was too fair for it and that the adoption of those proposals would lead to a reduction in its representation in this Parliament; therefore, it would not have any part of the proposals and would not make any submission to the distribution commissioners. Members of the National Country Party made up their minds before any action was taken that would result in new boundaries being set that they were against the redistribution because they were opposed to the fair rules set for that redistribution. 
The Liberal Party kept its options open. It said that it would see what happened when the redistribution proposals were brought forward. In all honesty, the Liberal Party made a valiant effort for some time to resist the pressures of the National Country Party led by the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony).  Those pressures were exerted not only by  Mr Anthony  but also by the paranoid Premier of Queensland, who was the architect of the Queensland gerrymander. He forced his gerrymander onto the Queensland Liberals in 1971. On that occasion, the Queensland Liberals threw away all future chances of being seriously considered as a credible political Party which would ever form a government in its own right in Queensland. For political expediency, Liberal Party members in this House are now prepared to fall into exactly the same trap as their Liberal colleagues in the Queensland Parliament fell into in 1971. 
Let me remind the honourable member for McPherson of what he said about the effects of the Queensland redistribution in 1 97 1 . The same may be said of the present position. He said: 'It is electoral injustice at Country Party insistence'. On that occasion, according lo one report:  !The Country Parry attitude concerning the redistribution Bill was one of political survival', the Liberal Party State  President, Mr Eric  Robinson, said yesterday. 
I know that if the honourable member for McPherson were given the opportunity to express his true and honest opinion and if the Liberal Party executive in Queensland were given the same opportunity to express its true and honest opinion in respect of this redistribution, they would support it. If they had been free of the pressures of the National Party in Queensland, if they had been free of the pressures that the National Country Party exerted on them on this occasion, as that Party did with respect to the Queensland redistribution proposals, in similar circumstances, they would support the redistribution. But they cannot because the National Country Party once again calls the tune. 
The National Country Party says: 'We will lose seats if this redistribution is agreed to. We will not be in any position to benefit from these redistribution proposals. Despite the fact that the proposals are fair, reasonable and honest, will not disadvantage any Party and will give reasonable representation as close as possible to the principle of one vote one value, we cannot allow you to support the redistribution'. Members of the Liberal Party have allowed themselves to be submerged and subdued by the pressures of the National Country Party on this occasion. Now and for evermore members of the Liberal Party have forsaken the opportunity in the Federal sphere of ever having any credibility as a political party able to govern in its own right, just as the Liberal Party did in Queensland. Members of the Liberal Party have acknowledged the fact that, in the future, they can never govern in their own right in this Parliament. If they want the chance to return to this side of the Parliament they must accept that they will be led by the nose by the National Country Party. There is no doubt that that is an absolute desecration of democracy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
-Last week, as we all well know now, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took yet another step in his continuing efforts to take this nation back to the past, with the political ideals of the long outmoded 1950s. He has the misconceived belief that because Australians have indicated some difficulty in absorbing and understanding the monumental advances made by the Government towards a new way of life- despite the Government's facing with the rest of the world in the last 3 years some of the most difficult problems that have ever been encountered- the Australian people want  to  return to the dead hand of ultraconservative Liberalism which they unceremoniously rejected in December 1972. There is no doubt that, now that the ill considered contents of his Federal-State relations policy have been revealed and publicly questioned and condemned, the hastily arranged meeting of last week would never have taken place had he realised the consequences. 
Since the Fraser fantasy on federalism policies has now become a document on which the Opposition hopes to gain office it is important that we all clearly understand its disastrous implications. It has been condemned in most of the well read and opinion-forming national newspapers. As recently as this morning the  Canberra Times,  in a headline to an article by its economics writer stated: 'Opposition document notable mostly for what is left out'. The article stated:  ... the policy document was simplistic to the point of effrontery ... the paper and the circumstances in which it was presented evoked nothing so much as the thoroughly unpleasant suspicion that the Opposition believes it is about to win government by default, that it is not the electoral approval of its policies which matters, but electoral disapproval of the Government's policies. 
The document was published in a fashion that has brought condemnation from people who have examined it, not, as has been suggested to me, by people who have not read it. Let me remind honourable members that criticisms have not been limited to Labor politicians. The most outspoken critic in Queensland of the meeting of Premiers with  Mr Fraser  and his colleagues in Melbourne last week was none other than the Treasurer of Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. The  Telegraph  of 29 September published an article carrying the headline: 'Chalk is Unhappy on Taxes'. The article stated: 
The Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, today criticised the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria in the growing row over the Federal Opposition's new tax scheme. 
He clearly rejected a claim by the Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  that the new tax scheme could reduce Queensland taxes. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen stands condemned by his own Treasurer, a man who has the financial expertise as far as Queensland is concerned and a man who often has been held up by all sections of non-Labor parties in Australia as one of thenleading experts in the financial field. It is important that these things be fully understood. 
I want to make some reference to the dishonesty- that is a word that today we all clearly understand is almost inseparably linked to the attitude of the Queensland Premier in almost every regard- of the Queensland Premier in the advertisement that he ran in the  CourierMail  on 25 September, the day following the conference that was held in Melbourne. No doubt the advertisement was prepared before the conference took place. In the advertisement he said that more and more effort was being made by the Australian Government to force grants on State governments under section 96 of the Constitution. The advertisement said: 
The Federal Labor Government has misused this power by trying to make more and more State money available only as section 96 grants with socialist strings attached. 
Of course  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  can get away with that because he is a politician. He can get away with that because he has no standards of ethical conduct or decency in anything that he does. If he were running a business concern he would be charged under section 52 of the Trade Practices Act for misleading and false advertising. 
Honourable members should note the efforts that have been made particularly since this Government came to office by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  to put some semblance of decency into the operation of political parties in the national sphere in respect to campaigning and publications. This has been rejected continually by the Opposition. 
Let me remind honourable members that the facts of the matter are that the Opposition policy document claiming that specific purpose funds now dominate State revenue is quite incorrect. In fact, the Opposition is over-rating the importance of specific purpose payments to States. In 1975-76 more than half- 53 per cent- of the funds available to the States from Australian Government payments and Loan Council programs will remain untied for use by the States as they see fit. Further, the Australian Government's specific purpose assistance in 1974-75 was estimated to amount to only 29 per cent of the total funds available to the States, including funds available from their own resources. This, of course, clearly condemns and scarcely shows any approval or support for the Queensland Premier's claim of being dominated. 
In respect of the disclosures made by the Leader of the Opposition in his new document, 'Fraser's Federalism', there is no doubt that should this policy be inflicted upon the Australian people we would see such a ridiculous situation with the collecton of tax and the administration of a dual system of taxation that not only would people be paying double taxation, as was clearly explained by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  yesterday in answer to a question, but also in some instances people could be paying 3 lots of taxation. Consider a taxpayer who works in more than one State in any financial year. There would be difficulties in determining the claims by various States on the taxpayer's income. Various ways of dealing with this problem could be devised, but new legislation would probably be needed and there would be considerable administrative troubles in clearing up the problem for that unfortunate individual. Very many people would be affected by that problem. 
The implications of the proposal by the Opposition are vast and are frightening when it is considered that members of the Opposition expect the Australian people to be prepared to accept their ill-considered, ill-conceived document, and they expect the Australian people to give them an opportunity to put such a document into effect should their style of government again be inflicted upon the people. 
Might I say that it is important for the Australian people to remember that the man who proposes this document is the man who in recent years was prepared to destroy 2 party leadersthe Leader of the Opposition in recent months, and previously, while the Opposition was in Government, his Leader, the Prime Minister of that day.  His  style of operation is unworthy of the democratic, decent way of life that is expected of politicians in this country. Now, of course, he links up with the National Party Queensland Premier, who in recent times has used his influence on the Leader of the Opposition and who by his very actions in the appointment of a senator to replace my late colleague,  Senator Bert  Milliner, seeks to destroy our democratic system of parliamentary elections whereby the people can determine the party that will govern them for a period of 3 years. 
-From listening to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and for that matter to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  one would believe that aU the problems associated with housing Australian families eventuated in the last 3 years. They soon and easily forget that for over a generation they were responsible for overcoming the problems of housing Australian families and that their attitude constantly was that it was the responsibility of the private sector. I can remember one occasion since I entered this Parliament in 1969, a Minister for Housing in b.e Liberal-Country Party Government, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  at one stage being asked about a survey to forecast housing needs of Australian families.  His  reply was that the conducting of such a survey must be the responsibility of the private sector. He looked to the Master Builders Federation to conduct the survey. He did not believe it was the responsibility of the Australian Government. Yet today, after the Australian Labor Party has been in office for 3 years, the Opposition seeks to tell the Parliament and the Australian people that all the problems associated with the needs of housing 
Australian families have occurred in the last 3 years. That is as far from the truth as are many other things which the Opposition proposes. For argument's sake, the fantasies of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  here today and his valiant efforts in the last few weeks to propose something in an effort to con the Australian people into believing are almost equal to the fantasies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
In the short time available to me I want to refer to the dishonest approach that has been adopted by the Queensland Government in respect of the amount of funds available to it this year for welfare housing in Queensland. The Queensland Government has claimed that the amount this year is down by about 29 per cent. Of course, that is not true. The amount that has been allocated this year in the Budget- $3 lm- is exactly the same as the amount that was allocated in the last financial year. In fact last financial year $37.4m was allocated and spentthe $31m that was allocated originally plus $6.4m that was given to the Queensland Government on 1 1 June this year. At the time it was given, the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  advised the Queensland Minister that the funds that were to be made available for Queensland- and Western Australia, which received additional funds at the same time- were advances out of the next year's Budget allocation. That was clearly understood by the Queensland Housing Minister and it is recorded in the conference transcript. If the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  is seeking to find it, let me tell him that it is on page 84. In that transcript it can be seen that it was clearly laid down by the Minister for Housing and Construction that that was the position. It was agreed to very meekly and mildly by the Queensland Minister for Housing. He said: 'We do thank the Commonwealth for giving us $6.4m.' On 23 June in a letter the Queensland Minister made the same point.  Mr Jon  Petersen, the Queensland Premier, who is often quoted by members of the Opposition, should perhaps appropriately be quoted on this occasion as saying that the funds provided by the Australian Government were very much appreciated. The Queensland Government on this occasion this year has also complained that it has not received the same amount of money that it requested for welfare housing. It asked for a sum vastly greater than that allocated by the Australian Government and complained that Queensland's position in the field of welfare housing in comparison with that of South Australia was such that it was being unfairly treated. It said that Queensland got less money than South Australia although South Australia had a lower population, being in the vicinity of 62 per cent of that of Queensland. 
It is interesting to see the statistics and to compare the effort made by South Australia in the field of low cost welfare housing over a great number of years. In South Australia, not only under the Dunstan Labor Government and the previous Labor Government but also under governments as far back as the Playford Government, a real effort has been made. But that is not the case in Queensland and that is something that the Minister for Housing in Queensland might like to explain. I want to refer to the comparative figures for the last few years. In Queensland in 1972-73 the total number of dwellings in the welfare housing field that were completed, under the arrangements of the State housing authority and the home builders account, was 1973. In the same year the number of completions in South Australia totalled 3802, almost double the figure for Queensland. What does  Mr Lee  say about this? Where was the real effort by Queensland in 1972-73? 
In 1973-74 the total in Queensland was 1398, less than the number for the previous year, while in South Australia 3983 dwellings were completed. The comparison on that occasion is more odious than the previous comparison. In that year South Australia completed almost three times the number of houses in the low income welfare housing area than Queensland did. Referring to 1974-75, it might be argued on the figures that Queensland made an effort and had lifted the total housing completions. The final figures for that year are not yet available but the estimated number to be completed is 2300. But even so, in comparison with the figures for South Australia, that figure is miserably low, South Australia having completed 3370 dwellings in that year. The figure for Queensland in that year is somewhat up on that for the previous year and is due in no small measure to the advance by this Government which was made, as I explained, with a clear understanding on the part of the Queensland Government that it was to be taken from this year's allocation, the advance of $6.4m made in June this year. 
Why is it that the Queensland Government seeks to deceive? Why is it that with gross hypocrisy it puts forward these figures and maliciously says that the Australian Government has cut the allocation to Queensland by 29 per cent? If it had any semblance of honesty in its reasoning and its public statements it would accept the fact that the figure this year is the same. Admittedly it would be nice to see an increase; that would be very welcome as far as Queensland is concerned. However I doubt that the Queensland Government could live up to its claim that it will complete in the vicinity of $80m worth of housing in the welfare housing field this year. On the figures I just gave to the House, based on last year's effort, it would seem most unlikely that Queensland could greatly exceed 2300 to 2500 dwellings this year. 
The Queensland Government has received a very fair deal in welfare housing from this Government. It has received a very fair deal when compared with the figures made available to Queensland by the previous Government. It is interesting to note that in the last 10 years of Liberal-Country Party administration at the national level the amount made available to Queensland was miserable in comparison with that made available by this Government in the first 3 years that it has been in office. The Queensland Government has received $92.2m from this Government which is nearing the end of its first 3 years in office, and that is $500,000 more than the State got in the last 10 years of Liberal-Country Party administration. 
I see that honourable members on the Opposition side are taking note of these amounts, and so they should. They should bring them up in their party meetings and show their leaders the hypocrisy of the statements they are supporting. It is interesting to see the Opposition Whip taking notes; I hope he has the figures right. The sum of $37.4m that Queensland got in 1974-75 and will get in 1975-76 is $4.3m more than it got- the honourable member might also like to note that it got it without question and without complaint- in the last 3 full year allocations in this sphere by the Liberal-Country Party Government. Advances for welfare housing for Queensland per head of population have increased under this Government from $8, when this Government took office, to over $15 in this Budget. The hypocrisy of the Queensland Government and the Queensland Premier, supported in equally hypocritical terms by spokesmen on the Opposition side, has been effectively shown by the figures I have given to the House. 
-Earlier this evening my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  mentioned the lack of concern for migrants once they were settled in this country. It was a significant feature of the immigration policy under the previous Government, to such and extent that by the time we of the Australian Labor Party came to office in December 1972 some 25 per cent of our annual migrant intake was being lost by wastage of migrants returning to their home countries. Realising the need to reverse this trend and to develop a policy of post-arrival and settlement concern, several actions were taken very quickly by the labor Minister for Immigration,  Mr Al  Grassby. Among those valuable initiatives was the decision to appoint a committee of the Immigration Advisory Council to inquire into and report upon the extent of discrimination and exploitation of migrants, with particular emphasis on their use of community resources. The Committee has presented its interim report to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland).  It was tabled in the Parliament in August 1974. The final report of the Committee has been completed. It will shortly be in the hands of the Minister and I would expect before the end of this session it will also be presented to Parliament. 
In the interim report the Committee put particular emphasis on several aspects of community concern for migrants and highlighted several areas in which discrimination was practised against migrants. Some of the recommendations made in the interim report, which is in fact a document in its own right, have received the attention of the Government. Several others are in the process of receiving the attention of the Government. I think it is important to reflect upon these recommendations and I want to mention just a few of them tonight so that they can receive fresh attention by the Minister and by the Department responsible for their implementation. 
The recommendations of the Committee in its interim report included one numbered 25 which was to the effect that training institutions should offer facilities for the training of skilled interpreters to enable the formation of a cadre of professional interpreters available for employment in government departments, private enterprise, hospitals, courts, prisons and in the community generally. Substantial progress has been made in the establishment of interpreter training courses at tertiary level institutions in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. One of the major unfulfilled needs of the migrant communities in Australia is for the services of interpreters. The decision of the Public Service Board to allow officers in Government Departments to undertake full time interpreter courses at full salary and for the Department of Labor and Immigration to pay allowances made under the National Employment and Training scheme to certain categories of students enrolled in these courses is a positive step forward. 
It remains to be seen whether there has been acceptance by courts, police, hospitals and other bodies in contact with the public of any obligation to provide trained interpreters to facilitate their dealing with migrants. There is still much to be done by the Australian Public Service Board and the various boards responsible for the employment of public servants in the various Australian States. These bodies are responsible for determining the conditions of employment and should ensure that interpreting skills are adequately rewarded and positive action is taken to ensure that positions as interpreters are provided for the students now under training at universities and colleges of advanced education. 
While it will be maintained that there are limits to the possibilities of introducing studies migrant languages and cultures into professional training courses in Australia, the Committee in considering the needs decided that it was important to emphasise that there would be value in exploring ways and means of introducing such studies into the professional training of teachers, social workers, doctors and lawyers and other professionals working in contact with migrant communities. 
Another important recommendation of the interim report of the Committee was recommendation 13 which dealt with the fundamental human right of a migrant without an adequate knowledge of English to have an immediate and absolute right to the choice of a skilled interpreter in every interrogation by the police and in all courts of law. This has been of serious concern to those interested in the welfare of migrants. There have been many blatant examples of justice having been denied to people over some of the most simple offences against the law simply because of the inability of the person charged or accused to understand the English language and to communicate with the law enforcement officers charging or accusing him. 
Recommendation 28 of the Committee suggested that official letters and documents issued by local government authorities and government departments offering services to the general public should be stamped in a number of the major migrant languages with the sentence: 'If you need this translated please indicate the language required and return'. There again in that particular area there have been numerous cases where, simply because of the inability of the migrant to understand his rights and entitlements from government departmentsthis could apply particularly in relation to the Department of Social Security- he has been denied those rights. It is as well for the Government to remember that it has a responsibility to ensure that rights to every citizen, to every worker, are not denied simply because of the inability of the worker, being a migrant, to communicate in the normally used English language. 
The interim report supported proposals that the criterion restricting eligibility for permanent employment in the Public Service should be reviewed. The National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has endorsed this specific recommendation and has expressed the view that where any nationality requirement is justified it should be restricted to that of Australian citizenship. It is understood that the National Committee has included a recommendation to this effect in its submission to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. Until such time as action is taken to revise the present nationality criteria, non-British migrants are being discriminated against in that they are cut off from obtaining permanent employment in Government services in some circumstances. 
There, of course, we must be prepared to accept the fact that something is being done. It is unfortunately a fact that it is most unlikely that any action will be taken to overcome this problem effectively until such time as the Royal commissionreport's. But I believe that it should be regarded by the Government as a matter of urgency that this one area of discrimination against newly arrived migrants should be eliminated by the positive action of the Government to give equal employment opportunities in the Public Service to all Australian citizens regardless of their ability to handle effectively the English language. Bearing in mind of course that there could be some reason in some particular positions where it would be absolutely necessary for persons to be fluent in English, there would be many positions that they could fill because of the skills that they naturally possess and with which they came to this country. But at the moment they are discriminated against because of the fact' that they are not able to handle the English language. 
Having had the opportunity to take part in the deliberations of this Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Walter  Lippmann, representing the Australian Jewish community from Melbourne, I must compliment the work that he undertook as  chairman  of the Committee and recommend to all members of the Parliament the value of this report. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Has any concern been expressed by representatives of the building industry about the effects on the industry of the Senate refusal to pass the Budget? If so, is this concern justified and does the Government have any plan to maintain the industry if the Budget is not approved? 
