I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: In respect of the amnesty for illegal immigrants presently in operation, how many illegal immigrants have come forward as a result of the amnesty? What proportion of them are likely to be allowed to stay in Australia? Does the Minister's Department have any information on how many further illegal immigrants are likely to be in Australia but have not come forward? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as I rise to speak for the first time in the House may I add my congratulations on your election as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees to those honourable members who have preceded me. I also ask you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Snedden  on his election as  Speaker.  You may recall that I was a member of  Mr Snedden  's staff in a previous government and it is a matter of some pride and pleasure to me that I am a member of a House of which he is the  Speaker.  As most honourable members know, I represent one of those outer suburban electorates which is very diverse in composition. It is made up of many growing outer metropolitan suburbs. It is one of those areas which have changed with changes in government in recent years, as have a number of other electorates in recent years. In fact the 2 previous members for my electorate each held their seats for a period of approximately 3 years. I trust that on this occasion that record will be broken. I believe that it will be broken following the application of the Government's program which was outlined in the Governor-General's Speech. I was particularly pleased to note in the Governor-General's Speech one statement of general principle- of philosophy- which I believe is fundamental to the main thrust of any government's program, particularly this Government's program. The long term objective is 'to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways which they decide '. 
I believe that those words are most important. Nowhere are they more important than in the ability of people to choose the sort of occupation they want to follow and to have some meaningful role in the company or business environment in which they find themselves. It is an essential part of freedom and independence for a person to have the ability, whatever level of industry or commerce he might find himself in, to choose meaningful employment, and having chosen that form of employment, he must then thave the capacity to influence his work environment and gain satisfaction from what he is doing. 
Several aspects of the Goverment's program contribute towards that objective. I refer principally, of course, to the desire to get away from the trend for the transference of resources from the private sector to the government sector of the economy. The redirection of resources away from the government sector towards individuals and towards the private sector is vital to freedom of choice in this country. It is only with a strong, vital and competitive private sector that people can have a real choice of the occupation they want to follow. Indeed, it is only where you have that strong, vital and competitive private sector that people can decide to chance their arm in their own business venture if they so wish. 
I want to concentrate on the problems of those who choose to work in large organisations because this is an area in which I believe I have some expertise and about which I wish to make a contribution in this Parliament. Those who work for a wage or a salary in a large organisation need to be able to participate meaningfully in what they are doing. We live in a world dominated by many large organisations, many large impersonal bureaucracies. When I refer to impersonal bureaucracies I do not mean just government departments; I mean many large companies as well. Too often the trade unions which are there to represent the interests of employees are themselves large and impersonal bodies which are unable to look at the interests and the needs of individual members within their ranks. The concepts of worker participation and job enrichment have become very important in modern day industrial relations. I am concerned with the ability of a person to play a meaningful role rather than be a mindless tool in the industrial machine. Therefore I want to see us look at the experiments that have been going on in many organisations which have tried to promote aspects of worker participation, worker control and job enrichment. 
I refer to some of the experiments that have been conducted in this country and overseas in worker participation by way of shareholding by a number of employees or by way of the creation of autonomous work groups, such as in the Volvo and Philips establishments. These experiments have been designed to introduce people to a wider range of responsibilities and a wider range of areas of decision-making within their work environment and not make them subject to a simple repetitious and mindless process. If we are to achieve this result in our industries and our commercial establishments we need to develop much more flexible attitudes to employer and employee relationships. I refer to attitudes on the part of managements as well as on the part of unions. 
Managements too frequently take the attitude that they make the decisions and other people cannot or should not contribute. But many of the most successful organisations in our modern economies are showing that they can be more profitable and more successful than their competitors if they give a greater degree of responsibility to people working at the levels where decisions have to be made in a plant or in an office. These are the developments that we have to promote. But as well as changed attitudes on the part of many managements we need to see changed attitudes in the part of many union managements because it is in many of the trade unions that we find some of the most restrictive trade practices, if I can put it in those words. Union demarcation disputes do tend to militate against productivity improvement. They do tend to limit the extent to which people in the work environment can participate in a broad range of tasks, in a broad range of decisions, instead of concentrating on the one thing. 
I believe that what we need in our entire industrial set up, in our industrial relations system, is a less rigid attitude to the development of work patterns and employer-employee relations. The industrial relations system in our country has been a good one. It has led us to have a much more successful record in industrial relations and in solving industrial disputes than almost any other country. In recent years there has been a major upsurge in the number of industrial disputes and in the number of working days lost as a result of industrial disputes in this country. The reasons have been canvassed in some other speeches and, I am sure, will be canvassed in further speeches. 
I make the point that there is often in the industrial relations system too legalistic an attitude towards the solution of industrial relations problems. There is too often on the part of parties to a dispute a tendency to go for the legal solution in terms of a rigid application of an industrial award or an item of industrial legislation where perhaps what was needed was the ability on the part of those parties to the dispute to sit down and talk out the problem or even, in some cases, someone to take the initiative and bash 2 heads together to try to reach a solution. Therefore I believe that we need a better system of consultation between unions, employers and government authorities concerned with industrial relations matters. 
In that respect I am particularly pleased to note the policy of the present Government to reestablish the National Labour Advisory Council as a statutory body, to give it a more meaningful role in industrial consultation and a more meaningful role in bringing parties together. I realise that that body is not intended to solve disputes once they arise. It is intended to bring together the employer bodies, the unions and representatives of government in a tripartite organisation that can talk out the ground rules by which industrial disputes can be solved. I was privileged,  Mr Speaker,  while on your staff, to sit in on one session of the National Labour Advisory Council as it then existed. I saw some of the work it attempted. It was concerned with a number of matters dealing with the recognition of overseas professional qualifications, Technical and Further Education and the development of related facilities, safety legislation and some matters dealing with the long term development of our conciliation and arbitration system. It is proposed that that body be re-established on a more meaningful basis and be given the opportunity to peruse every item of proposed industrial legislation and to be able to comment on it. I believe that by bringing the 3 parties togetheremployers, employees and government representatives- we will achieve a much better understanding of what our industrial relations system is about, what it is attempting to solve, and will reduce the possibility of friction in future. 
In talking about the National Labour Advisory Council, I mention very briefly the matter of technical and further education. I believe that this is one matter which requires a great deal of attention in this country. I noted in the Governor-General's Speech reference to reports by 4 education commissions. It stated that the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission would be among those required to report by the end of March, giving recommendations for the triennium 1977-79. 1 wish to deal with the area of technical and further education and with adult education generally because they are matters of increasing concern to a society 'which is seeing rapid change. For the past 3 years I have been employed in management consultancy, from which employment I have happily resigned in more recent months. That gave me a valuable perspective of what has been happening in the employment market. It is trite to say that we live in times of severe unemployment. I know from my experience in servicing the needs of client companies that, despite record unemployment, in many cases there are shortages of trained staff in certain areas. Many times one would advertise a vacancy on behalf of a client and receive forty or fifty applications. On interviewing the applicants and examining their appplications one could not find a person who measured up to the training, the experience and the personal qualities specified by the client. Accordingly, many companies preferred not to make an appointment in what they regarded as a quite vital position rather than to appoint someone whom they believed was inadequate. So we have this imbalance in the labour market- on the one hand record unemployment, on the other hand many companies complaining regularly that they could not get people of the training, experience and qualifications that they desired. In recent weeks I have been touring a number of major factories in my electorate, particularly the southern part of it which tends to be industrialised, and I have had that comment from almost every one of the chief executives of those factories. 
Part of the solution to the problem lies in a new attitude to further education. Technical education can enable people to keep up with technological change. It can enable people to be trained in new disciplines if their old occupations are displaced by technological change or by changes in the economy. The Kangan report with which you,  Mr Speaker,  will be familiar spoke of education as a lifelong affair and pointed to the fallacious attitude to education in many people's minds. Many people think it is something for the early stage of one's life; then one moves into employment and forgets education. That is an attitude which we can no longer afford. I believe that one of the major problems which we will have to tackle in respect of technical education is the matter of mature age entry to many trades. I realise that in times of excessive unemployment to suggest mature age entry to many trades will be regarded as premature. I realise that many young people want to get an apprenticeship, but they cannot find one at this stage. What I am speaking of is perhaps something for a later stage, but at least we ought to develop attitudes towards it. In some trades, such as the bricklaying or furniture trades, there can be mature age entry. In the vast majority of trades- I refer particularly to the metal trades- it is not impossible for a person with some work experience who develops an interest in that area of work to enter at a later age. If he has not made the decision by the end of his school life or during the middle of his school life it is too late for him. I believe it is a tragedy. As I said earlier- in another respect- it is a restrictive trade practice of the worst kind. I believe that the flexibility of our economy would be greatly improved if there were a greater opportunity for people to enter a trade or profession later in life if they discover from experience that something else suits them better. I commend to the Government that it take steps in this direction. 
Another area which I believe needs attention in the area of later age education is the role being played by many of our tertiary training institutions. I have been disturbed by the number of technical institutes that are trying to become universities. I believe that in the efforts that many of them are making to expand their range of courses and their range of faculties into the humanities and social sciences they are spreading their resources too thinly. They are finding difficulty recruiting appropriate staff to manage and to teach those courses. 
I believe that there is a danger that we will end up with too many second rate universities in this country rather than a number of first rate universities and a number of first rate technical training institutions. I hope that in the consideration that is being given to the future funding and organisation of tertiary education we will see the need for excellent technical training institutions. I hope that we will try to discourage the belief amongst many educators that in order to have a tertiary institution of some standing and status in the community they must try to cover the whole range of disciplines that are normally covered by universities. 
These are some of the matters on which I wish to concentrate in my period in my first Parliament. As I have said, I anticipate that there will be a second Parliament for me to participate in because I believe that the policies of this Government which have been so ably outlined in the Governor-General's Speech will work and will gain general community approval.  Sir, I  am happy to be a member of this House and I thank you for the opportunity of speaking. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the new work test which is applied to people receiving unemployment benefits. Can the Minister say what has been the result of the new work test as it has been applied by officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service? Have there been many complaints about the operation of the work test? Can the Minister outline the avenue of appeal open to any recipient of unemployment benefits who feels that he or she has been disadvantaged by the interpretation of the work test by an officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service? 
-It is very difficult to understand the logic of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  when he asserts that this Government has reneged on its promise in relation to civil aviation made during the election campaign. The provision contained in the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill is in fact for an increase in air navigation charges of 15 per cent, which is within the limits provided in the 
Airlines Agreement of 1973. In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made it clear that, in respect of the previous Government's policy to increase air navigation charges, in some areas by up to 300 per cent, we would not be proceeding with those sorts of increases and that we would be conferring with various sections of the industry to see what sorts of increases were appropriate in various circumstances. The 15 per cent increase provided for is in line with the general level of inflation, which has been promoted under the previous Government. 
I would remind the House that transport costs are a major element in the Australian economy, and therefore we have to be very careful when we add to the costs of goods and services by increasing transport costs. Transport costs are a major element in the final price of the goods and services that we buy in the shops or that we purchase from various suppliers. I believe it would be fair to say that the previous Government had not thought out adequately its proposed imposts on the civil aviation industry. The Minister again in his second reading speech pointed out that under the measure now before the House the industry will have to find another $3.9m. Under the Budget proposals of the previous Government the industry would have had to find $25m, and that is a very substantial difference. I believe that it is a necessary sort of measure in these days of high inflation to restrain the growth of government charges as much as possible. 
I point out that the policy of the previous Government was very badly received by a wide range of people, not just by the airlines, as one would expect, who have to find the money, but also by the unions involved in the airline industry and by the aviation Press. Let me quote a representative sample of views expressed by those various interests in the civil aviation industry. The thirtieth annual report, 1974-75, of Trans-Australia Airlines, which was only recently circulated to members of this Parliament, says this in respect of the proposed Budget increases for 1975-76: 
The likely effect of the tariff increases necessary to achieve the rate of recovery decided upon by the previous Government, together with the increase already granted since the end of the 1974-75 year and others necessary to cover predictable cost increases not allowed for previously, might well be to stultify the growth of air traffic completely. This halting of growth may well result in a significant shortfall in the recovery by the Government of the desired proportion of costs. 
Furthermore it may well be found that only the major city networks could bear 70 per cent of the costs attributable to those networks. There would seem to be little prospect of achieving the desired level of recovery on routes where there  is less traffic. Some further recognition of the part played by the airlines in national development should be given if a serious contraction of the Australian air transport system is to be avoided. 
The October 1975 issue of the magazine  Aircraft  described the proposed measures as 'a killing dose of . . . medicine'. The editorial in that magazine stated: 
Announcing in his Budget speech that the Government's . . . 1973-74 aim to recover 80 per cent of 'the costs of providing and operating airport and airway facilities within five years had made 'very little progress'  Mr Hayden  said: 'action will be taken to increase the recovery rate of 70 per cent this year' with 'increases in air navigation charges substantially greater than the 15 per cent annual increase referred to in the 1973 Airlines Agreement'. 
At a slightly later stage I shall be dealing with that matter of the proposed increases above the 15 per cent rate which the previous Government had in mind. To indicate to the House that the views expressed are not just the views of commercial vested interests I shall quote from a report prepared by the unions involved in the airline industry. The unions are as follows: the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers Association, the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, the Federated Clerks Union of Australia- that is a bunch of silvertails if I have ever heard of one!the Airline Hostesses Association, the Australasian Airline Flight Engineers Association and the Flight Stewards Association of Australia. In a report dated 1 October of last year they stated the problems as follows: 
The Australian civil aviation industry is currently at a critical stage with its future viability doubtful. 
The tragedy of this, is that it has occurred not merely because of the general economic downturn existing todayalthough the pressure of this cannot be over estimated with an industry whose sensivity to economic cycles is high. Nor has it occurred because of the industry 's own mistakes- aviation is Australia's most efficient form of transport. It is the result of government action- the cost recovery program, the effects of which have recently been compounded by a separate decision to increase the price of turbine fuel to international operators. 
They are savage, arbitrary and simplistic impositions for the costs are heavy. The reasoning behind them have no sound basis, they are prejudicial and reveal an appalling lack of thought given to the value of the services provided by civil aviation to Australia 's economic welfare and development. 
That, I suggest, is a most reasonable statement of the situation from the unions involved in the industry. 
The action proposed by the previous Government would have been in breach of the 1973 Airlines Agreement which the previous Government itself brought in. I shall point out the way in which under the previous Government the Airlines Agreement was modified. The 1961 Agreement provided: . . . The Commonwealth . . . will not - 
increase the rate of air navigation charges payable by the Commission and the Company by more than ten per centum in any period of twelve months; 
The major amendment that was made to that in the 1973 Agreement was that the maximum increase in charges allowed in any one year was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. The Agreement also included provisions that the Commonwealth will increase the rate of charges to international operators by the same percentage as any increases payable by Ansett and TAA. Further, it provided that the Commonwealth will consult annually with the airlines on departmental activities with a view to reducing costs and minimising charges. It is one of the sad facts that having introduced that Agreement in 1973 the previous Government quickly set about trying to breach the Agreement. In fact the imposts suggested in the 1975-76 Budget would have exceeded the 1 5 per cent limit stated in that Agreement only 2 years previously. It seems from all that we have been able to gather that the increases would have applied only to the domestic operators, not to the international airlines. This also is in breach of the Agreement. 
I realise that air navigation charges are only part of a total cost recovery program and that there are a number of other charges and expenses involved as well. But I believe that we have to consider very carefully the nature of any charges that are imposed on this industry. I want to state a few views on the sorts of considerations we should have in mind when discussing with the industry what increases in charges, if any, are appropriate. I suggest that in Australia we need a system of aerodromes and navigational aids as a national necessity- a basic social cost. Of course there is an obvious defence need. There is a need for developmental services, particularly in some of the more isolated areas of the country. I think in particular of some of the great developments going on in Western Australia. There is a need for a wide range of services for rural communities. There is a need for emergency communications and relief work in respect of such institutions as the Flying Doctor Service and aircraft which bring in flood relief. 
All of these sorts of things need to be provided in this country. They are a social necessity. We should not look at the industry merely as being an industry which has to meet the full cost of providing all of these social necessities. We tend not to look at roads and railways in those terms. We believe that it is necessary to put a road through to an isolated community and we do not insist that that community, through its traffic along that road, should meet the entire cost of providing that road. Somehow or other the previous Government picked out civil aviation as an industry on which to impose this cost recovery program. I think that we are not looking at the civil aviation industry in the right way if we take that attitude. 
I want to conclude by making one small point about the attitude that a number of areas of general aviation are taking to these sorts of increases. Concern is felt in some areas of general aviation, and in sporting aviation in particular, that the attitude of the previous Government especially, and of the Department of Transport, towards them is one of, if not hostility, then at least non-co-operation. Unfortunately in general aviation a view has developed that it cannot expect much co-operation from the Department of Transport. I think that in some respects this attitude is not well-founded, but there is no doubt that it is a widely held view in general aviation. It is something to which the Minister for Transport should turn his attention because there will be a lack of co-operation if there is this feeling in general aviation that it is being singled out for rather repressive treatment. I support the bill and urge that the Minister take note of some of the thoughts that I have put forward on the sort of considerations which we should have in mind in formulating future policy. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has he seen reports of yet another hang gliding injury over the weekend, this time through a young man making his first gliding attempt by jumping on a 33 metre cliff at a Victorian beach? Does the Minister recall that the last annual report of the Department of Transport stated that an Air Navigation Order specifying conditions for the operation of hang gliders was being drafted? When will such an Air Navigation Order be promulgated so that this apparently simple but potentially dangerous sport can be supervised properly? Will the Minister consider requiring that those who wish to participate in this sport must undergo some appropriate training in basic disciplines such as aeronautics and meteorology? 
I rise to support the motion by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to establish a standing committee on road safety. The committee has in its terms of reference 4 main headings: Firstly, to inquire into the main causes of the road toll; secondly, to investigate the most effective means of achieving greater road safety; thirdly, to look at the particular aspects of the problem to which all concerned could advantageously direct their efforts and, finally, to try to assess the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia. In view of a reply that the Minister gave to me yesterday I am almost tempted to try to have the safety of hang gliders included in the terms of reference. It seems that they are not to be regarded as aircraft but perhaps since they spent more time on the ground they could be regarded as land vehicles! However, I will not try to do that. 
I note that the second paragraph of the motion specifies that the committee should recognise the responsibility of the States in matters of road safety and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. That is, of course, an important clause because matters relating to road safety are matters basically within the powers of the States. However, it is increasingly the case that there is a national responsibility in that our transport system is becoming more national in character and there needs to be a great degree of co-operation, co-ordination and, in many respects, standardisation between the States and the Territories of the Commonwealth. A committee established by the national Parliament can have a valuable role to play, I believe, in several important respects. The first one, of course, is to look at the matter of standardisation between the States on road signs and traffic regulations which, as I have already said, is a matter or more importance since we are evolving an increasingly national transport system. 
Secondly, I believe that such a committee can play a valuable role in evaluating the legislative initiatives which have taken place in various States to see whether they ought to be implemented in other States. I instance the Victorian seat belts legislation of 1970 which at that stage was a very controversial piece of legislation. It was hotly debated in the community and indeed within the Victorian Liberal Government itself. That legislation has now been accepted as a standard for other States, and many overseas countries are sending people to Victoria to see how that legislation is operating. Various items of breathalyser legislation have been tried, or at least mooted, in various States. These have been accompanied by controversy as to their effectiveness and as to the degree to which the legislation infringes on personal liberties. It is one of those important matters where the needs of road safety have to be balanced against infringement of personal liberties. I believe that by looking at the effect of various initiatives in various States one can come to a view as to what is an appropriate measure to be introduced in other States. There have been either enacted or mooted other pieces of legislation relating to spot checks for the roadworthiness of cars, driver training systems and road design features. All these should be evaluated so that there can be a proper exchange of views throughout the Australian communities and to ensure that the initiative started in one State is not limited to that State. 
That leads me to the third major point I want to make; that is, a parliamentary committee of this type can play a great role in the promotion of public debate. Some matters concerning road safety are matters that can be dealt with by legislation. A great many matters are subjects that really are not appropriate for legislation but are appropriate for public education, debate and a greater public understanding. For example, if we look at the public's attitude to the drunken driver on the road quite often there is some attitude in the community that such a person is regarded as a cause of mirth- "Look at old Fred getting behind the wheel of his car and winding away along the road"- whereas it ought to be a subject which causes great concern in people and which causes them to put some social pressure on other people not to behave in that way. Secondly, the seat belts legislation in Victoria can be enforced by the police force to a certain extent but to a very large extent it can be implemented properly only if there is a general acceptance on the part of the public that seat belts ought to be worn. In this important respect there is a need for the creation of public debate and a public awareness of a problem. The final example I give in this respect is the need to make certain motor vehicle design features more acceptable. Certain design features could be put on motor vehicles which I believe would make them much safer, but in many respects they would destroy what people now refer to as the aesthetic qualities of motor vehicles and people would be inclined not to buy vehicles with those sorts of features. A greater public debate on this sort of matter could achieve an acceptance of necessary design features. 
The road toll in Australia is presently running at an annual rate of more than 3 500 deaths and about 90 000 injuries. If similar numbers were killed or injured in a war there would be mass demonstrations. If such numbers were killed or injured in earthquakes, cyclones or some other form of natural disaster it would be a matter for an urgent relief program. Road accidents, however, tend to be a privately felt loss rather than a matter provoking public outrage. Even if the committee does not bring down reports, and of course it will, it is a valuable committee to have merely to provoke the sort of discussion which is needed. The mere fact of people giving evidence and obtaining publicity for that evidence is valuable. The knowledge that members of Parliament are inquiring into problems forces people to take notice of those problems. 
I believe also that it is an appropriate matter on which to have a parliamentary committee because road safety is not really a matter of party political debate. There are not great conflicts of Party philosophy. Therefore it is a subject in respect of which members from both sides of the House can play an important role and can come to a large measure of agreement without any substantial conflict of Party philosophy. I recall that at the time of the introduction of the seat belt legislation in Victoria, in 1970, there was more disagreement within my Party on that subject, in terms of the balance between safety and individually liberties, than there was between the parties. This is the type of issue that we find in road safety. I understand that before the dissolution of the last Parliament the previous Committee had partially written a report on vehicle design. One of the main jobs of the newly constituted Committee will be to continue that work and to bring that report to completion. I believe that that alone is enough to justify the formation of this Committee. Therefore I support the motion. 
I rise to support the 5 Bills before us which provide for the payment of grants to the States for various aspects of post-secondary education. In my remarks I will not be dealing so much with the first 2 Bills which deal with universities but rather with the 3 other Bills which relate to advanced education and technical and further education. I regretted that in the 1975 Budget there was a break in the triennial funding program for post-secondary education. Accordingly, the Bills now before the House are to provide finance for this year, before the recommencement of the triennial funding program. Whilst I regretted that break in the triennial program, I believe that it does have the compensating factor of giving us an opportunity to re-examine where we stand in the development of post-secondary educational facilities in this country so that the new triennial program can be embarked upon with some sort of evaluation in mind. 
I want to make some remarks which are related to the role played in this country by colleges of advanced education and to some of the factors that ought to be considered in respect of future funding programs. In recent years there has been a remarkable spread of colleges of advanced education. Many of these colleges have provided many worthwhile initiatives in education. They have provided an avenue for many people, who otherwise would not qualify in the normal universities to gain a post-secondary education. Some of the worthwhile initiatives shown by the colleges have been in the development of courses which have filled gaps not covered in courses in the standard institutions which existed previously. Let me give a few small examples of the sorts of gaps that have been filled by various institutions of this nature. The Canberra College of Advanced Education has developed some very useful courses on local government administration, which is an increasingly important area of public administration in Australia. The College has provided for that need in a way that I believe no other tertiary institution in Australia is. 
In my own capital city of Melbourne, the Caulfield Institute of Technology has developed some very useful and very pertinent computer courses. The courses can be used by managers in various businesses who may not have had the opportunity to become familiar with computer technology in the days when they undertook their initial education. Such people would include managers of businesses who must learn something about modern management information systems which employ computer techniques, accountants who must become familiar with the increasingly common systems of computerised financial reporting, and production managers who need some training in modern computerised methods of production control. The initiatives that have been taken are very useful, and no one would doubt that the money spent in developing the courses has been very well spent indeed. The Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology has developed some very useful management diploma courses of a type that are not provided in the university Master of Business Administration programs which often require people to attend for a year of full-time study at some stage during the course. The RMIT courses provide for the young business executive who must devote a great deal of time to his occupation but wants to gain some extra skills and insights by way of this type of study. The Caulfield Institute of Technology also has developed some very useful courses in administration. 
However, there are developments in the colleges of advanced education which I believe give cause for some concern. There seems to be an increasing desire on the part of many of the colleges to develop a wide range of courses and a wide range of faculties which would turn them into copies of universities. I think we have to evaluate this trend and consider the extent to which we are getting value for our money in this development. It seems that many of the colleges of advanced education want to become universities. They want to offer a wide range of degrees or diplomas in the liberal arts or general studies. I fear that in seeking to staff these courses the colleges are spreading their resources too thinly and may not get the appropriate staff to develop courses of an adequate standard. I appreciate that the courses have a great value for many people who are coming back to education at a later stage in life- people who perhaps left school at a very early age and need to regain the habits of study. Many of the courses that have been developed by the colleges of advanced education are designed to cater for that sort of student who needs a gradual introduction to the methods of study so that he or she can then embark on a more rigorous vocational training of some sort in a rather more well-defined discipline. But I fear that a number of the courses are becoming courses for people who want something to do with their time, and perhaps we ought to be looking at types of facilities other than colleges of advanced education. If the resources of those colleges are spread too thinly many of the courses could become amorphous, do-nothing courses. 
I mentioned that there is a search after status on the part of many of the colleges, and that is evidenced by the extent to which they seek to become degree-granting institutions. In seeking to grant a large number of degrees over a wide range of disciplines, I fear that the colleges could be in danger of debasing the value of those degrees in the long term. If a college of advanced education is offering a course which provides expertise in a particular subject, such as the local government area which is a specialty of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, then a qualification in that subject or that discipline at that particular institution will be valued and regarded very highly throughout the community. But, if there is a proliferation of degrees in general studies, the liberal arts or whatever they might be called, I fear that in the long run they will be regarded as fairly worthless bits of paper. I recall that some years ago it was a fairly standard joke to talk in the American context about a Ph.D. who had been to one of the second rate institutions in America and had taken out his Ph.D. after 18 months of part-time study, or something of that nature. I am not suggesting that we are going to that length in this country, but I feel that our tertiary institutions of education ought to be careful when developing their range of courses, that they do not debase the value of the qualifications they issue. 
I should like to make passing reference to something the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said in the second reading speech on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Amendment Bill 1976. He said: 
The Bill also amends the schedules to show changed names for some colleges and incorporates a number of approved transfers of funds . . . 
The change of name in the case of a number of these colleges indicates the sort of search after status that is evident. Every technical college becomes an Institute of Technology, and I do not object to that to any great extent. But if one looks through the schedule of names of the various institutes one finds that the longest name is that of a particular institution in Victoria. In Queensland the Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers College is still called the Kindergarten 
Teachers College. In New South Wales the Sydney Kindergarten Teachers College is still called the Kindergarten Teachers College. But in Victoria the old Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College- -MKTC as it was known- has now become the State College of Victoria- Institute of Early Childhood Development. I am not quite sure who evolved that name, but it seems to me that we have got into the habit of looking for grandiose names for our institutions. I make that only as a passing reference as to the way in which we seem to be searching for status in so much of our tertiary education. 
Another factor in the development of colleges of advanced education has been a growing debate on the role of research in those institutions. When advanced education was reported on by the Martin Committee it recommended that increased opportunities in post-secondary vocational education were important for Australia's future needs. The basic philosophy behind the formation of colleges of advanced education was that these institutions would provide genuine alternatives to universities for vocationally oriented students. I gather it was not anticipated that colleges of advanced education would have a great role to play in research. That was seen to be the university's role. I have not made up my own mind on the role of research in colleges of advanced education, but I do believe that it is a subject that needs a great deal of consideration before we go much further in the development of this form of educational institution. 
I would commend to the House an article written by Beresford Stock, a senior lecturer in the School of Pharmacy at the South Australian Institute of Technology which can be found in the  Australian Journal of Advanced Education  of October last year. It is a very sober analysis of the factors for and against having research activity in colleges of advanced education. Beresford Stock comes out on the side of having research activity in colleges of advanced education on the basis that to attract the sort of staff you need you must be able to provide that community of scholars in which research can take place. I agree that that is a valid consideration. However, I just raise the question about the extent to which we ought to be encouraging research in colleges of advanced education and whether here we have another case of these institutions spreading their resources too thinly. I commend that article to the House as being a very useful contribution to the debate on that subject. 
Of course there are some types of research which one can see are relevant and valid for a college of advanced education to undertake. In certain disciplines it is impossible to teach those disciplines unless you are really involved in the work of developing a body of thought on them. In the technical area, for example, the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology has an organisation called Technisearch which can undertake contract research for commercial clients. This is a very useful inclusion in the total program of RMIT because it enables people within RMIT to see their training put into practice while they still have the opportunity within that institution to evaluate it and to see what sort of result it can have. That is obviously a very useful teaching aid, if I may put it in those terms. Also, in the business administration schools that we have in both universities and colleges of advanced education there is usually a requirement or a recommendation that lecturing staff in those courses should undertake some outside business consulting work so that they are kept in touch with the business world. This means that they are dealing with real problems rather than teaching students from the point of view of an academic ivory tower. There may be other avenues of research that are also valid but I raise the question as to the extent to which research has a part in colleges of advanced education. 
I want to deal with a couple of other relatively small matters, in terms of the time that I will spend on them, that are marginally related to these Bills, and that is why I will spend only a small amount of time on them. I noticed recently in the newsletter of the Technical and Further Education Commission mention of the Commission's research and investigation program which included some work that was being done on adult migrant education. I do not know what the long term plans for migrant education are or just who will be co-ordinating migrant education in this country. I think it is fair to say that a number of different programs of migrant education have been developed by various bodies- by the Department of Education in the Commonwealth sphere, by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and by other various State bodies- which do need some coordination. Let me give an example of where coordination is obviously badly needed. I have drawn this to the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs because I think it is of concern to him in the ethnic affairs part of his portfolio. 
In my electorate is the Eastbridge Hostel where, as honourable members may know, a number of Vietnamese, Cambodians and Laotians have recently arrived. That hostel, as do other Commonwealth hostels, has an Education Centre. The structure of that education centre is as follows- I gather that it is not just limited to Eastbridge and that there is a similar situation existing in other centres: Firstly, the Language Training Supervisor in charge of that centre is employed by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The teachers who have to teach the various courses with her are supplied by the Migrant Education Branch of the Victorian Education Department. The buildings and furniture which they use belong to Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. The teaching equipment is supplied by the Commonwealth Department of Education. I think honourable members can see that there are the seeds of lack of co-ordination at the very least. I have pointed this out to the Minister and suggested that someone has to control because if the language training supervisor determines in her best judgment that a certain type of course ought to be designed and the Migrant Education Branch of the Victorian Education Department takes an attitude that the teachers should not be teaching that sort of course in certain hours, there is obviously a source of some conflict. I believe it is just symptomatic of the situation of adult migrant education in this country. As I have said, that is marginally related to the Bills, so I will now move off that subject. 
On the matter of adult education in the community I want to develop the thought that perhaps a number of the general courses which are being offered by colleges of advanced education could be offered by other sorts of institutions. It may well be that we do not need to have a college of advanced education for some of these general courses which are used by people as a way of updating their educational skills, learning the habits of study, perhaps even just doing something to involve themselves in the community such as getting out of the house and meeting other people. There may be all types of motives for undertaking a course and perhaps what we need to do is to develop some of the secondary technical schools, for example, in a way that enables them to be used to a much greater extent for adult classes rather than just the teenage classes which tends to be their emphasis at the present time. It may well be that we can find a good use for the facilities that already exists in the community or that are being developed for use at a limited time of the day. Perhaps we can get some extra usage out of them during the evenings. I have indeed made that suggestion to a group of people in my own electorate in Croydon who are presently putting together a submission to the State Minister for Education to try to convince him to develop a new co-educational technical school in the Croydon area. I have suggested that in planning for that school the authorities ought to take into account the lack of adult education facilities in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is he contemplating any further overseas visits this year? If so, what plans does he have to limit the extent and costs of his overseas travel in comparison with the practices of the former Government? 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in his blustering speech against the Government mentioned that this is the second occasion on which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has made a statement relating to unemployment benefits. The honourable member omitted to say that the first statement which the Minister made in January was in fact the result of a review which was initiated by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he was the Minister for Labour and Immigration in the previous Government. Therefore one wonders why the honourable member for Hindmarsh did not come in for some implied criticism as well. Perhaps that partly explains why he was removed from his office as Minister for Labour and Immigration to another position in the previous Government. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also said that dole cheats are an extremely small percentage of those on unemployment benefits. The Minister has readily conceded that. The Minister in his statement to the House pointed out that the 3 surveys conducted between May 1975 and January 1977 covering 112 000 people showed that about 30 per cent of those receiving benefits were not entitled to do so. This does not mean that all of those people were dole cheats, although some of them were. But the results of the surveys indicate that there is a need for tightening up the administrative procedures to ensure that so many people cannot receive unemployment benefits when they are not entitled to do so. The Minister's statement is in fact a very moderate one. It is a balanced statement which seeks to tighten up the administrative procedures without in any way disadvantaging those who have some claim to unemployment benefits. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand went on to make a number of claims about what the Labor Government had done for the unemployed. But he forgot to mention- and it is strange that he did so- that the Labor Government created most of the unemployed of this country. While we have crocodile tears from honourable members opposite they seem to forget that the last Labor Government during its period of office created the highest level of unemployment since the depression. It implemented, for example, a precipitate, acrosstheboard tariff cut of 25 per cent which created in decentralised areas major pockets of unemployment which should never have occurred. It never would have occurred had the then Government taken the advice of many of its trade union leaders and practical businessmen who knew exactly what would be the result of those policies. With one stroke of the economic theorist's pen the Labor Government created drastic unemployment in many areas. It destroyed or crippled large parts of the private sector and discouraged private investment. That is one of the major reasons that many school leavers had difficulty in finding employment at the beginning of this year. Members of the Opposition have criticised every move we have made to try to restore confidence in the business sector and to restore private investment. One would have expected some contrition, some statement of regret from the other side. Instead we heard bluster to hide their own lack of performance in the past. 
We on this side of the House concede that we have contributed to unemployment in only one respect. I and other members on this side of the House are proud to say that on 13 December we added to the unemployed a number of redundant Labor politicians. The people, as the shareholders of Australia, recognised that Labor politicians represented a wasteful and unnecessary overhead in an Australia made near bankrupt by their management. That certainly was one of the major reasons for the level of unemployment. 
The criticisms made by the honourable member for Gellibrand indicate that he, and I assume other honourable members opposite, have not read the Minister's statement, which was a balanced statement with an eye to reasonable administrative efficiencies and carefully considered safeguards for human rights and dignity. It is part of the continuing process of the evaluation and review of the work test and the associated guidelines. For example, in early 1973 the former Government announced a number of new provisions for the work test and guidelines. In April 1974 the provisions were reviewed, the rules were changed or refined and anomalies were corrected in the light of experience and the circumstances of the time. Another review took place in May 1975 in which again some anomalies were corrected. In that month the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who was the Minister at the time, asked the interdepartmental working party further to examine the work test and guidelines. The changes announced by this Government in January of this year arose out of that very review. So it is not right to compare this Government's actions with the previous Government's actions as if everything was fine under the previous Government and everything is black under this Government. We have seen a continuing review being conducted. It is quite proper that this should happen. The Minister in his statement made in the House last week said that the Government had decided: 
The definition of 'suitable work' be amended to allow the CES to extend the range of jobs to which beneficiaries may be referred after they have been in receipt of benefit for a reasonable period; 
The honourable member for Gellibrand was not too specific about many of his criticisms. He accused us of trying to create some atmosphere of resentment against so-called dole bludgers. In terms of actually analysing the statement he was light on for facts. I ask the House: What is wrong with the Minister's statement that I have just read out? 
-As the honourable member for La Trobe says, there is nothing wrong with it at all. It is reasonable to make sure that people who receive unemployment benefits are in fact those who cannot find any other form of suitable employment. The Minister in his statement went on to explain: 
In the future, where after a reasonable period it has not been possible for a person to obtain employment in his usual occupation or work of an equivalent kind, the range of suitable jobs to which he or she may be referred will be extended to all which are within the person's capacity and available to him or her even though a change in status or wages may be involved. 
What is so terrible about that? If that provision is to be criticised, I point out that many people who have lost a job in fact readily accept other work. They do so because they want the income, they want to keep busy and they do not want to get into a state where they are losing the work habit. They want to keep involved in the work force. In my experience when interviewing many such people I have found that those who are more choosey about the sort of employment they wish to fill are often resented. The people whom I have interviewed felt that in some way those people who are a little more choosey are taking advantage of people who are prepared to accept other forms of work. 
There are many benefits to be gained by requiring people to look at alternative forms of employment perhaps beyond their own narrow preferences. They can learn something of other jobs. They can develop new interests which in many cases lead them to take up new occupations. In many cases temporary stop-gap work leads to fulltime employment within a company and to a higher position when the employer has seen that the employee can really produce, the goods. In many circumstances there can be advantages in people being required to go back to the grass roots of their profession. For example, a systems analyst can benefit by being required to do some computer programming work. Often people in this profession can get out of touch with the sort of work done by those who have to implement the systems that they design. Similarly an architect can be advantaged by having to do some drafting work from time to time because architects quite often get out of touch with the sort of work that the people under them, the people who have to construct the buildings they design, have to do. So there are many benefits that can flow from this requirement, and it is not reasonable do decry every instance of a person's being required to accept work which perhaps does not accord with his initial rather narrow preferences. I should point out that there are safeguards in the Minister's statement. It is not an absolute requirement. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government has decided that a period of 6 weeks after registration for employment will constitute a reasonable period. 
That is a reasonable period to find work directly within the area of preference specified by that person. 
However, this period may be extended up to 3 months in total where to do otherwise would be detrimental to the person finding employment in his usual occupation. 
In that circumstance, someone who has been looking actively for work and has had an interview and perhaps been placed on the short list for a job within his area of preference and is going for his final set of interviews in a week or two obviously could put that forward as a reason why he should not be required to take some other form of work. He ought to settle that job application first. I believe that there is ample flexibility in the Minister's statement to allow people to look around first and canvass the market properly to see if a job is available within their area of personal preference. I instance the example of a woman who came to see me recently. She was a Sri Lankan who had just arrived in the country and her husband had found very good employment. However, this woman wanted a job to take her mind off some personal problems relating to her family in Sri Lanka rather than for economic reasons. She expressed great surprise to me that she was able to go to the Commonwealth Employment Service and be referred to a process working job in a factory which initially she felt was well below the teaching job she had had in Sri Lanka. However, realising that jobs were scarce, she accepted that employment and started work the next Monday on $140 a week. I think that is a highly responsible attitude. Surely it is better for many people to take $ 140 a week for a job which they may not prefer in the first instance but which does keep them active in the workforce and provide them with a more than adequate income, certainly more than the unemployment benefit. 
The Minister in his statement also referred to those who resign voluntarily from their work and then seek other employment. I believe it is reasonable to say that such people should be required to wait for a few weeks before receiving unemployment benefits. After all, a person who resigns from a job in order to seek other employment surely has taken into account that he or she will have to look around for two or three weeks, go to a few interviews, find a few job possibilities and then perhaps wait for another few weeks before having final interviews and organising a starting date. I believe it is reasonable to say, as the Minister pointed out in his statement, that people who resign their jobs because they feel they would like to try something else, that another job would suit them better or that the circumstances in their present employment do not suit them, do so in the knowledge that in all probablilitythere is going to be a gap of several weeks and they take the decision with that in mind. I do not believe that it represents any hardship on such people to require them to wait 6 weeks before being paid unemployment benefits. 
I should refer also to what the Minister had to say about school leavers and the fact that, unless there are special circumstances which can be considered, unemployment benefits will be paid only at the commencement of the new school year. It is one of the facts of life that students before they leave school are advised now to register for unemployment as soon as they leave. Indeed, it is often put around the schools that if a student intends to go back to school the next year he ought to register for unemployment benefits so that he can get the extra money over the holiday period. I believe that we are facing a situation where school leavers are being encouraged to look first to the Government for support and not to their own efforts. The Minister's statement is a balanced one which prevents that misuse of the system but provides that unemployment benefits can be paid to those who are genuinely seeking work and cannot find it. I will give another example of a school leaver who came to see me who was actively seeking work but if he could not find it, was going to go back to school for another year. When filling out the form provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service, in answer to the question: 'Will you be going back to school next year?' he wrote: 'No, unless I cannot find a job.' Of course, he was ruled out of unemployment benefit. Friends who he knew full well were going back to school, but had not stated so as honestly as he, had obtained unemployment benefits. He was penalised for telling the truth. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs would be aware that recently a group of more than 200 refugees from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam arrived at Eastbridge Hostel in Nunawading. Is the Minister aware that staff members of the nearby Mitcham High School have expressed concern about likely problems with the influx of nonEnglish speaking migrant children into the High School? Can he say how many children are involved? Also, can he say what steps are being taken to ensure that such children have a smooth transition into local schools? 
-The speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  indicated that the Opposition still has a great deal to learn about the hard facts of economic life in this country. The business bashing of which honourable members opposite were guilty while they were in power still continues, it seems, and they still have not come to any realisation of the effect that that had on the employment situation in Australia, on our national income, on workers and on the consumers for whom the Opposition expresses such sympathy. It is a fact that regulatory mechanisms in our commercial life are necessary. Any government in a modern community would appreciate that fact and seek to implement effective trade practices legislation and other complementary legislation. But regulatory mechanisms in commercial life also have their costs. If they are applied with inconsistencies and conflicts they add to the costs of the business world. They require additional staff in order to sort out the accounting and legal problems involved in making submissions and satisfying the various regulatory tribunals. So we have to look very carefully from time to time at the way in which the regulatory mechanisms in our commercial life are operating. 
I suggest that the very basic, very simple amendments which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has introduced in the form of this Bill which we are discussing at present constitute a very reasonable approach to some very necessary amendments which have been pointed up by the experience of the legislation's operation. Let us look at the major amendments which the Minister has proposed in this Bill. Firstly, it is proposed that the public interest, as represented by the Government view, should be able to be put to the Trade Practices Commission in any matter which it has before it. The honourable member for Port Adelaide did not have anything to say about that. In fact, he did not really seem to be opposing the provisions of the Bill at all. He used a blustery speech to make a few political points and at the same time he was saying that he was not really pressing his Party's opposition to this Bill very strongly. He did not give us any details of what the Opposition saw as being wrong with the Bill. I must admit that it was very hard to listen closely to what he had to say. Surely in applications under consideration by the Commission we should ensure that the public interest is represented. In these sorts of activities where matters can be the subject of cosy discussions between accountants and company lawyers there is a danger that the public interest- the consumers' interest- for which the Opposition professes to have some sympathy- will not be heard. So that simple amendment has very profound implications in terms of consumer protection. This measure is in fact a consumer protection measure. 
Secondly the Bill would discontinue the special treatment which is now available to foreign companies in takeover activities. It is not right that foreign companies should be excluded from the provisions of the trade practices legislation as they apply to takeovers. Under the present provisions foreign companies have an advantage over Australian companies when it comes to the bidding and jostling involved in takeover activity. I would have thought that that again was a simple but rather profound change in the legislation which would have the agreement of all sides of this House. 
Thirdly, the Bill gives power to the Industrial Court to make declaratory judgments and to issue prerogative writs. This is something that has been pointed out by the experience of the operation of the trade practices legislation. In his second reading speech the Minister pointed out that these sorts of writs have been taken out in courts other than the Industrial Court. In view of the fact that so much of the operation of this legislation has an impact on the Industrial Court it is appropriate that the Industrial Court ought to have this authority so that we keep it in the one jurisdiction in the area where the judges have to develop some expertise. 
The fourth change which was mentioned specifically by the Minister in his second reading speech was the change from the references in the old legislation to 'Attorney-General' to the references in the amended legislation to 'the Minister'. I think that this has some important philosophical significance although perhaps it is not a major change in terms of the operation of the legislation itself. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has taken over a new portfolio which brings together a group of regulatory mechanisms available to the Government and to interested parties in the commercial world to use in their negotiations and in making business decisions. I think it is appropriate that all these regulatory mechanisms should be brought into the one portfolio so that the one Minister can look at them with some consistency to ensure that each regulatory body is not operating against another. 
From time to time there have been complaints from people in the business world that they have to satisfy different criteria in respect of different regulatory bodies. For example, some businessmen will tell one that in respect of submissions that they have to make to the Trade Practices Commission they are told that they have to compete, that they cannot get together with their competitors and come to certain arrangements, whereas when they go the Industries Assistance Commission they are often told that there must be greater rationalisation in the industry if assistance is to be granted in the way of tariff protection. That is the sort of difficulty that businessmen are faced with in making decisions in this area. Therefore, bringing those regulatory bodies under the one Minister and ensuring that there can be some consistency in policy formulation is a highly desirable move. The change in the wording of the Bill in this respect gives effect to that philosophy. 
I believe that there are many good reasons why we ought to look at the operation of the trade practices legislation from time to time. I am aware of the way in which some aspects of the legislation have operated in recent time actually to increase company costs. From time to time the Trade Practices Commission has required a great deal of detailed accounting information, as has for example the Prices Justification Tribunal, another body for which the Minister has responsibility. That has required an enormous amount of expense in terms of new, highly paid staff- cost accountants, corporate lawyers and so on- who have to satisfy the often very detailed instructions and requirements for the provision of information to these regulatory bodies, and, as I have already mentioned, sometimes supply conflicting sets of information or overlapping sets of information that have to be calculated in a slightly different way. 
The companies have to go through the process once for the Prices Justification Tribunal, again for the Trade Practices Commission and sometimes to go through it in another form again for the Industries Assistance Commission. I hope that the Minister will be looking at a number of the practical effects of the legislation concerning the regulatory bodies that he has responsibility for in his portfolio and ensure that in the coming review of the trade practices legislation and any other reviews he might be conducting of other regulatory bodies, he will seek to ensure that they are acting consistently and in the best interests of efficiency and the welfare of the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer to the review of the Cadet Corps and the Air Training Corps being carried out by the Minister and his department. Is the Minister aware of the sterling efforts by parents of boys in cadet and ATC units in keeping the units running on a voluntary basis? Is he further aware of the difficulty in maintaining the interest of many corps members because they do not have access to basic training aids such as training manuals? Can the Minister say when he will make a clear statement of the Government's intentions with respect to the Cadet Corps and the Air Training Corps? 
I wish to air the matter of the undercurrent comment and speculation surrounding the position of  Dr Jean  Battersby the Executive Officer of the Australia Council.  Dr Battersby  has been the subject of a cowardly and anonymous whispering campaign conducted by people who are not prepared to come out into the open. They choose instead to run a campaign of rumour and innuendo through the columns of the newspapers. I know Jean Battersby personally. I first met her about 9 years ago, although it would be about 4 years since I last saw her. She is highly intelligent, resolute and principled. From that brief association, I believe that she combines an artistic expertise with high administrative competence- a rare combination. In the current underground campaign being conducted within the Australia Council she has been accused of being abrasive and of riding roughshod over others. Is it not strange how we criticise successful women in such terms? A Margaret Thatcher becomes 'the Iron Lady'. A Margaret Guilfoyle becomes 'the Iron Butterfly'. Behaviour which represents commendably strong leadership and resolve in a man is seen as unladylike and unacceptably dictatorial when exhibited by a woman. I venture to suggest that, whatever faults Jean Battersby has as an administrator- she might well have faultsshe would not be subject to the same criticism if the name was John Battersby 
The complaints about her administrative style must be seen in the context of the peculiar difficulties of arts administration. I am in no position to comment on the truth or otherwise of any specific complaints. What I want to do is to point out the difficulties confronting an arts administrator. The first difficulty is that of resolving the conflicts and tensions that arise between the need for efficient administrative and financial control on the one hand, and the artistic temperament on the other. Indeed, some people would say that the term 'arts administrator' is a contradiction in terms. Many artists, by temperament, feel constricted by the need to observe the accounting and administrative procedures usually required where taxpayers' funds are at stake.  Dr Battersby  herself has been quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald- a  newspaper which has given more than average coverage to the problems in the Australia Council- as saying: 
The field of public administration of the arts is a fairly turbulent area compared with the administration of housing ... Or perhaps, it just seems this way to me from where I sit. 
I suggest that a recipe comprising a mixture of money, administrators and artists, garnished with a social gadfly or two, has a very low boding point. 
The second major difficulty, as I see it, is the problem of establishing some measure of success or failure, when trying to evaluate the work of the Council. In a commercial enterprise, profit is one measure. In many non-commercial operations, one can establish various measures of cost effectiveness. But what measure of cost effectiveness can one use with respect to grants to the arts? How does one conclude that the work of a young artist applying for a subsidy will contribute to the social good in a way that justifies a contribution from taxpayers' funds? I am not opposing such grants; indeed, I support them. I am merely pointing out the lack of clear definition in this area, a lack of clear definition which enables those who have unsuccessfully applied for a grant to find some basis for any resultant hurt or disaffection they might feel about the Australia Council and to find some supporters for their view. The Australia Council has become well known and has attracted an increasing number of applications for assistance to various artists or artistic groups. It seems inevitable that resentment will build up among the increasing number of applicants to whom the Australia Council must say 'No'. 
I would make this appeal to those who would criticise  Dr Battersby  in their anonymous but personalised way: If you must make criticisms, have the courage to attach your name to the criticism, or be silent. If you do have criticisms, put them forward in a way that helps us to evaluate the progress and contribution made by the Australia Council, so that informed and responsible policies can be evolved. There have been specific criticisms of the 1973-74 accounts of the Australia Council made by the Public Accounts 
Committee of this Parliament. Those criticisms must be noted and assessed. But that was, in many respects, a transition year for the Council. What we must have now is some calm and informed comment on the development and activities of the Council since that time. I invite the anonymous critics to undertake that task. 
-The House is debating amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are brought into the House pursuant to the industrial relation policies of the Liberal and National Country Party Government. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  gave what I thought was a fairly half-hearted opposition to the measures which are before the House. In saying at the beginning of his speech that these measures are 'harmful to industrial relations' in this country, 1 think he is indicating just how out of touch he and his colleagues in the Australian Labor Party have become with the views of ordinary, moderate rank and file trade unionists throughout this country. I have been amazed at the way in which unionists have come to me as a Liberal member of the House to express their views on the industrial relations legislation which we proposed to introduce. I know that a number of other honourable members on this side of the House have found exactly the same thing. It seems to me that more and more moderate trade unionists in this country are detaching themselves from their formal links with the Labor Party and trying to establish good relationships with people on this side of the House. I for one am very thankful and grateful that this trend is occurring. I believe that it is a very healthy trend for the industrial relations system in this country. 
The Bill will give the Government an opportunity to express a view as to whether there should be an appeal or reference to a full bench of the Australian Industrial Court in the public interest. The Government already has the right to intervene in the public interest in matters once they come before the full bench. But we all know that quite apart from those hearings before the full bench there are many occasions on which decisions made by lesser tribunals have very significant flow-on effects. They do have pacesetting effects or they can lead to leap-frogging between various groups in the community, with one award which is granted in one place leading to higher awards for other groups in the community. It is, I think, a reasonable measure that the Government should be able to express its firm view on whether such decisions ought to go to the full bench for a further hearing. 
I will not deal with that aspect at length. What I do want to say is that the present Bill must not be construed in any way as an attack on the authority of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commission is not in a position to inform itself as to the public interest, and economic matters are complex. Its role in the context of the Government's overall economic strategy must also be appreciated in the wage-fixing process. Tribunals of this nature, which operate on the adversarial system, depend very heavily upon the submissions of the parties before them. The Government has the information and the expertise at its disposal to provide the relevant economic information and the necessary information as to the techniques of economic management which the Government is employing. 
The Act presently provides that the full bench of the Commission must take into account the state of the national economy and the likely effects of any award that might be made. Clause 6 of this amending Bill widens this provision to require full benches specifically to take account of the likely effects on the level of employment and on inflation. The idea is not a new one. Let me go back some years to what the former Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, the late  Sir Owen  Dixon, said in the railway case of 1953. He said: 
While an arbitral tribunal deriving its authority under an exercise of the legislative power given by section SI (xxxv) must confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes including Wilt is incidental thereto and cannot have in its hands the general control or direction of industrial, social or economic policies, it would be absurd to suppose that it was to proceed blindly in its work of industrial arbitration and ignore the industrial, social and economic consequences of what it was invited to do or what, subject to the power of variation, it had actually done. 
I only wish that the  Hansard  editors had been able to get to that sentence before it was committed to paper because they might have broken it up into two or three different sentences. 
In these days when we talk increasingly of a social contract in industrial relations, of arriving at some general agreement between government and trade unions on what should be the general level of wage increases in the community, of what could be the total package in terms of things like taxation measures, tax indexation, wage increases and various economic measures that might be introduced, it is even more necessary that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should be required to take into account matters of direct relevance to the economy. It is therefore appropriate at this time to specify that the Commission should take particular account of the likely effects of its decisions on the level of employment and on inflation. Those 2 mattersemployment and inflation- are matters which are concerning us very greatly at this time, not only in this country but also in many other countries. We cannot hope to have a workable, viable industrial relations policy and a wage fixing mechanism unless we can look at wage fixing and look at industrial relations matters in the context of their effect on employment and industrial relations. 
I move on to the matter of secret postal ballots. The honourable member for Gellibrand described the Government's measures before the House as being provocative. He then went on to make some remarks which I felt were fairly halfhearted. It seemed to me that he was just putting forward some opposition for the sake of recording opposition on behalf of his Party. I cannot imagine that he really had any great objection to the measures contained in this Bill. 
Under these provisions the unions will have a choice. They may have their elections conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office free of charge. Alternatively, they may run their own elections, but in that event the costs will have to be met by their members. In a large union this can run into hundreds of thousands of dollars. Let me refer to some of the costs involved in conducting union elections. In 1975 some 31 elections conducted by the Electoral Office, which required postal ballots or expenditure by the Office, cost an estimated $144,727.68. That estimate does not include the cost of the ordinary salaries of those handling the administration. I will take some particular cases. Elections involving the Australian Railways Union were estimated to cost $40,248, elections involving the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation were estimated to cost $34,643, and elections involving the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union were estimated to cost $22,195. Savings of this scale to organisations would in anyone's language be significant and, if for no other reason, should commend the present proposals. It also would be clearly to the members' benefit if resources presently being spent on elections can be used henceforth for legitimate industrial purposes. It should be emphasised also that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act already provides for the Australian Industrial Court to hear a challenge from any member of an industrial organisation who believes that there has been any irregularity in an election. Where an irregularity is proved, the Court may order a courtcontrolled election where it is considered to be warranted. 
The Government, through the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  is committed to genuine and constructive consultations with employers and trade unions on its industrial legislation. In the amendments now before the Parliament the Minister has demonstrated his willingness to listen to wellargued views of both employer and employee representatives. The legislation reflects that flexible approach. Further measures are planned by the Government to ensure the fullest possible participation by members of unions and employer organisations in the election of their office bearers. This will be the subject of further examination. As a result of the Government's initiatives, the Australian Council of Trade Unions has agreed to take part in wide-ranging discussions with the Government on the state of the economy, with particular emphasis on wages policies. Wage restraint, as most people in the community recognise now, is essential for economic recovery. The Government has given evidence of its good faith by introducing tax indexation and by taking full account of union views in amending its industrial legislation. We now seek the co-operation of the trade union movement in bringing inflationary costs under control. Such co-operation is vital in the interests of the Australian community. 
The Bill before the House provides for certain exemptions from the secret postal ballot procedure. The ballot would still have to be secret, but there are certain ways in which a union can have an election by other than a postal ballot. I refer to clause 13 of the Bill. It provides for a new section  133AA.  Sub-section (3) of new section 133AA states, in part:  ... the Industrial Registrar may . . . exempt the organisation, in respect of an election, from the application of this section if he is satisfied that the conduct of the election in accordance with those rules- 
is likely to result in a fuller participation by members of the organisation in the ballot than would result from a postal ballot; and 
will afford to members entitled to vote an adequate opportunity of voting without intimidation. 
I believe that the measures that the Government is introducing take account of the situation that may be faced by particular unions in particular circumstances. They are flexible provisions which can take account of the environment in which people work and the industries in which unions operate. If, for example, a union has most of its workers employed in three or four sites in the country and they are not spread through many small factories, in that case it could be quite appropriate for the ballot to be conducted by way of polling booths at those three or four limited sites where 90 per cent or 95 per cent of the union membership might be found, and for there to be a supplementary provision whereby people could apply for a postal vote if they so wished. The intention of the Government's legislation, therefore, is not to impose any rigid, dogmatic, doctrinal view of how industrial relations ought to be conducted but to ensure that whatever means are used gain the highest possible proportion of union membership participation in those ballots. That is the basic aim of the legislation that the Government is introducing now and that the Government may have occasion to introduce later this year. 
I want to deal very briefly with the collegiate system which the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech. The Minister gave notice that he was postponing for the time being the introduction of any legislation relating to direct voting and the collegiate system so that he could hear a wider range of views on this matter. I have been trying to come to grips with this rather difficult problem because I find that one is the target of representations from many people in the union movement and in employer organisations who have a wide variety of views to put. One cannot really categorise those views according to a certain view that belongs to those who are of the left and another view that belongs to those who are of the right. It seems that there is an extraordinary crossing of lines amongst unionists and people involved in industrial relations on this matter. 
Earlier I said that the intention of the Government was to try to ensure the greatest possible participation by rank and file members in union affairs. With that in mind I believe that one can look at other than a direct voting system. I must say that on my first approach to the problem I did think that a system of direct voting for all members for the election of all office bearers of a union would provide the maximum participation by the rank and file membership. But if you consider the situation faced by the rank and file union membership of a large national union where every member of the union throughout the country is required, or is given the opportunity, to vote, for example, for the national  president  or the secretary of the union, you can see the potential problem that the average unionist faces. How does the unionist in some far flung corner of the country really know anything about the candidates whose names he sees on the ballot paper? How can a candidate, representing a moderate group within the union- a group that perhaps does not have great organisational or financial resources behind it- conduct a campaign which would require him to organise support throughout the factories and to send through the post how to vote information and literature on himself and his policies to every union member throughout the country. 
One can see that a candidate standing for election in that sort of system could face the problem of having to run a campaign costing $20,000, $30,000, $50,000 and perhaps more in order just to get his name across, in some superficial sense, to every member of the union. So there might be difficulties in many unions in the proposition that direct voting in fact allows the rank and file members to have a meaningful say. It could well be the case that a better system in such a union would be to have an election for office bearers at a regional or State level where the campaign would not be so costly. It would be more likely that the average rank and file unionist would want to offer himself for election, and where it would be possible for him to become known and for members of the union to express a meaningful vote. Then, officials having been elected at that level, in turn national office bearers could be elected. That is the view I am coming to on this matter of whether there ought to be direct or collegiate systems of voting in union elections. I am happy to leave it up to the unions to decide which system they want, but I do believe that a form of collegiate voting, as it is called, ought to be open to unions to apply if they so wish. 
Let me make one final point. It is rather a matter for regret, I think, that we have come to use this term 'collegiate system'. I wish I could find another term to use, but there is nothing surprising about a collegiate system. There is nothing unusual about it in this country. The Parliament itself represents a form of collegiate system. The electors throughout the country do not directly vote for the Prime Minister. They elect members of the House of Representatives, who, in turn - 
Well, they have the chance to know them because at an electorate level individual candidates do have some ability to get around their electorates and to explain their own policies and their parties' policies. What I am saying is that this Parliament represents a form of collegiate voting system. The Senate is possibly a better example of some form of collegiate voting systems because there is found equal representation from all of the States to ensure that the smaller States have an adequate say. 
Also, the party organisations which preselected every one of us who now sit in this chamber represent forms of collegiate voting systems. In our own party organisations- and I will speak of my own Party's system- we elect people at a State conference or State council level who in turn elect the members of a State executive. That State executive elects delegates to a federal council which in turn elects a federal executive. In each of the major political parties in this country there is a multi-tiered form of a collegiate voting system. Therefore, I think it would come strangely from members of this Parliament to require of other organisations in this country that their elections should be conducted wholly and simply on a direct voting system. I think that we do need a more flexible approach. We certainly do need safeguards on the collegiate system. But I think the option should be there in any future legislation that we introduce for unions to conduct their elections by a collegiate voting system. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Can the Treasurer tell the House whether Budget outlays for the current year are likely to be higher or lower than estimated at the time of the Budget last year? 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the Victorian Premier has expressed concern that a proper balance should be maintained between restraint in Government spending and stability in four major fields of Government activity, namely, housing, sewerage, roads and urban transport? Can the Prime Minister outline in what way the Commonwealth Government has preserved a balance between the public and private sectors? 
-I wish to make some observations about attitudes to the census which is going to be conducted in Australia shortly. There has been a great deal of Press comment on the census. There have been a great number of allegations that the questions in it constitute an invasion of privacy. I share many of the misgivings that people have expressed over the questions contained in the census. With that in mind I asked my research assistant and secretary to conduct a survey among some people in my electorate to try to find out what were the attitudes that were being reflected in the community. I am not going to suggest that the survey, of which I shall give some details, was conducted in a strictly scientific way. 
One hundred people were interviewed in the Ringwood and Mitcham shopping centres, and some were contacted by telephone to try to broaden the sample. They were shown a list of new questions on the census form, which I suppose are sociological questions rather than traditional demographic questions which we are all used to. The people interviewed were firstly asked: 
Regarding the new questions on the census form, do you regard these as an unwarranted invasion of your privacy? 
Seventy-two out of the one hundred said yes, twenty-six said no, and two were not sure. The second question was: 
Regarding these new questions, do you intend to answer them? 
Fifty-four said no, that they had no intention of answering the questions, thirty-one said yes, and fifteen were not sure. Unsolicited remarks from those who were not sure included some doubts about the legitimacy of the question relating to mental health and doubts about the overall necessity of the census. Some people asked whether the information could not be derived from other sources anyway. Comments voluntarily made by those who considered the new questions were an unwarranted invasion of their privacy and who intended not to comply were along the following lines. Some said the new questions were unnecessary because the information was held elsewhere or because it could be gathered more effectively from other sources. Some said that the question on mental health was too subjective. One elderly working woman said that she would be quite happy to do time for non-compliance and have a holiday. 
It is interesting to see that some of the people who said they would comply seemed to fall into particular categories. It did seem from the very limited information from the very limited number who were interviewed that a large proportion of those who said they would comply identified themselves as low income earners or people who were in receipt of welfare payments in some way, or could be in receipt of welfare payments, and who believed that the purpose of the census was to allow the Government to get better information on which to base policies which would be of help and assistance to them. That is a quite reasonable view. I just want to put that forward as perhaps suggesting that there might be some people in the community who have an abhorrence of the questions that are going to be asked and who as a group will not comply. One wonders about the validity of any results that will come out of it. 
I am somewhat critical of the non-attempts that have been made to persuade the Australian people that the census is a desirable instrument or gathering information for Government policy making purposes. There does not seem to have been a great deal of effort to tell the people why a census is necessary. In these days when people are questioning privacy matters much more, when there is for example a reference to the Law Reform Commissioner on this very matter of privacy, I think a greater public relations effort would have been justified. I wonder whether we should not be looking at alternatives to the traditional census form, perhaps a sampling for the detailed information on a voluntary basis backed up by a brief demographic census. Perhaps there ought to be a separate slip for the name and address of the person answering the census put in one box and the census form in the other so that the identity of the person answering the question is separated from the information supplied. I believe that we have to think out this matter a great deal for future censuses, and I hope that we will learn from the experience of this coming census. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  has taken out health cover with Medibank Private, rather than through the private health fund with which he was previously insured? Was this option open to him under the Labor Government's Medibank arrangements? Can the Prime Minister explain why he himself has taken out health cover through Medibank Private? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-A number of members of this House have had drawn to their attention instances in which certain trade unions are now disciplining union members who exercised their right to work on 12 July this year; that is, the day of the Medibank strike- the national stoppage. July 12 was the first occasion in Australia on which a national strike was called, and that strike was on a political issue. In recent years there has been a disturbing development in Australia of the use of the political strike. Let me differentiate the political strike from the industrial strike. An industrial strike is one in which the union has particular industrial objectives in mind for its members such as improved wages and conditions or the settling of some other dispute with an employer. A political strike is one in which the union uses the strike weapon to cause such dislocation to the economy or inconvenience to the population that the elected government is under great pressure to concede the political decision that the union is urging upon it. 
No one in this Parliament would deny the right to strike on an industrial issue. We may as individuals criticise the way in which particular industrial disputes are conducted, but no one here would deny that a union member is entitled to withdraw his labour in pursuit of a legitimate industrial objective. I believe firmly in a strong industrially orientated union movement. Employees should have strong representation in any discussions about how the fruits of productivity should be carved up. I believe in people joining their unions and playing a part in them. A strong union movement is vital, in my view, to a healthy economy. But we on this side of the House believe that it is improper for a union to use its industrial muscle in pursuit of political ends, which are the legitimate responsibility of the elected members of this Parliament. To use industrial muscle for political ends is industrial blackmail. 
Public opinion polls indicate that the people support this view. A recent gallup poll showed that 75 per cent of those polled disagreed with the national stoppage over Medibank, whatever might have been their personal views on the issue of Medibank itself. Even more significant for honourable members opposite is the result of a poll published in the  Bulletin 2  months agowell before the Medibank strike. It showed that only 22 per cent of union members and 26 per cent of Australian Labor Party supporters approved of political strikes. Spokesmen for the ALP have been ambivalent, to say the least, in their statements on this matter. It is surprising, therefore, that the pressures inside the Australian 
Council of Trade Unions were such that it supported a national strike on a political issue. The ACTU had never before supported a national strike. It had never before supported a political strike. Last month it showed its lack of judgment by supporting both at the one time. That lack of judgment is now being reflected by certain union bodies which are proceeding to discipline union members who exercised their right to work on 12 July. If there is a right to strike, surely there is also a right to work? 
A good example of what has been happening can be seen in what occurred at the Ringwood Post Office, which is in my electorate. On 12 July, the day of the national stoppage, a number of Post Office employees at Ringwood reported for work as usual. The next day they were visited at the Ringwood Post Office by an official of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, after someone had telephoned the union office to report that certain members of the union had not observed the strike. The union official told the postal employees concerned that they would be fined $20 for not striking the day before. I understand also that other employees of the Ringwood Post Office, those who observed the strike, were told not to speak to the employees who had turned up for work. In other words, they were to be sent to Coventry for their action. Fortunately most of the employees at the Ringwood Post Office were too sensible to indulge in such childish behaviour. These events were reported to me later that day, Tuesday 13 July. Subsequently, the employees concerned received a letter dated30 July from one F. J. Bourke, Victorian Branch Secretary of the APTU. I will read the text of that letter 
-I rise to support the Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and to reject the amendment to the Budget moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The speech by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  confirms that the Labor Opposition has no real alternative budgetary strategy of its own. In fact, we on this side of the House found the most important aspect of the honourable member's speech to be his advocacy of uranium sales overseas because he did say that we should enrich uranium in Australia before selling it overseas. The basic assumption behind that statement is that we should in fact be selling our uranium overseas. Perhaps he should speak to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  just to confirm that that is an official attitude. We on this side of the House would be interested in some clarification on that point. We, of course, take the attitude that we will not make a final decision before the Fox Inquiry has reported, but the honourable member for Hawker has committed himself on the matter at this stage. 
The honourable member for Hawker supports it. He confirms that and we are grateful to him for doing so. The shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  spoke earlier in the evening.  His  comments on the Budget were as negative and as erroneous as those of the Leader of the Opposition earlier in the week. The Labor Party's grand economic design apparently is to rest on the abolition of the investment allowance as well as other business incentives and to use the resultant savings for so-called selective stimulatory expenditure, as he called it. In other words, the Labor Party believes that incentives for investment in employment producing plant and equipment should be abolished in favour of funds for make-work schemes. The honourable member for Adelaide also advocated a modest increase in the deficit to underwrite a higher level of government spending. Such a policy could lead only to higher interest rates or, alternatively, add to inflationary pressures. The Labor Party has once again demonstrated that it has no answers to Australia's economic difficulties and that it has learnt nothing from its past mistakes. Having spent its way into economic problems it can now only advocate that we should try to spend our way out of them. 
The shadow Treasurer made a number of comments which indicated further the Opposition's shallow attitude to the Budget. He alleged that the new stock valuation proposal would discriminate in favour of some companies. I point out to the House that the stock valuation proposals will, in fact, correct a discrimination against some companies. Inflation discriminates against certain companies- manufacturers and others who have to carry high levels of stocks. 
Inflation positively discriminates against them. The measure announced by the Treasurer, therefore, will not be discriminatory in itself but it will correct an existing discrimination brought about by high levels of inflation. 
We on this side of the House also take the view that tax indexation is a necessary reform in circumstances of inflation. Tax indexation keeps governments honest. It makes sure that if governments want to raise additional taxes they have to legislate to raise those taxes. They do not gain a windfall in taxation receipts merely by the effect of increases in money wages pushing people into higher taxation schedules. Tax indexation ensures that governments have to legislate in order to put people into higher tax schedules. The new family allowances constitute a major social reform which the Opposition has still not recognised. Professor Henderson has noted that there are many low income families with children who constitute a major proportion of the poor in this country. The best way to assist them in most instances is to put money into the hands of the mothers of those families. There have been too many occasions on which efforts to assist the poor in the community, and low income families in particular, have resulted in additional salaries being paid to middle income professionals. The new family allowance is a measure which will ensure that those who need the assistance will get it in the most direct way. 
This evening I particularly want to speak about education. The Budget which is before the House restores real money growth in education along with, of course, the re-introduction of the principle of triennial planning in education. I mention in particular the increases in expenditure that have been made in the technical and further education area. The Budget indicates that there will be a  VA  per cent increase in expenditurethat is, a real increase in expenditure- on technical and further education in the next year. The Technical and Further Education Commission has been told that it can plan on a basis of a minimum increase of 5 per cent per annum in real terms in the succeeding 2 years. I emphasise 'a minimum increase' because we hope that as the economy recovers we will in fact be able to allow a greater increase than that. I believe that this is one of the most important areas of education. I agree with some of the comments made earlier by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that a great deal more needs to be done in this area of education. The 7 1/2 per cent increase in real terms which I mentioned is the greatest increase out of all the increases for the various educational commissions, but one must admit that the technical and further education area is starting from a lower base and needs that greater increase in order to catch up. 
I put to the House that many people in universities and colleges of advanced education may actually find more satisfaction and courses that suit them better in technical and further education institutions. Let me indicate some of the costs involved in supporting people at universities and colleges of advanced education. I have some figures here for universities. Admittedly they are rather out of date but they are the most recent I could obtain in the short while I was able to look through the Parliamentary Library with the assistance of the research staff. I have an article by C. Selby-Smith printed in  The Australian University,  volume 11, No. 2 of September 1973, entitled 'Faculty Costs in Australian Universities'. A survey was taken of 10 faculties at 5 universities. The survey showed that the total cost in 1 969 of keeping one student in the veterinary science faculty was $4,374 per annum. That figure included capital and recurrent expenditure and was the highest figure out of the 10 faculties. The figure went down to as low as $1,334 an economics student per annum. Some figures compiled by B. R. Williams in 1973 were published in 1975 again in  The Australian University.  They indicated that the total recurrent costs, that is, without capital expenditure added, for a veterinary science student was $5,676 per annum and for a law student it was $1,109 per annum. They are very high levels of expenditure. 
I suggest that if there are people at universities doing courses for reasons other than vocationalperhaps they are doing them for the social intercourse which university study allows; perhaps for the opportunity to get out of the house and to catch up on some things that they might have missed out on in their earlier life- we have to question whether this level of expenditure per student can really be justified and whether we can continue to support the high levels of increases in expenditure on universities and colleges of advanced education that have been occurring in recent years. 
I believe the institutions involved with technical and further education have a very great role to play. I think that that is being recognised more and more. I notice, for example, reports in recent weeks that the Victorian Government will investigate bringing Victoria's universities, tertiary colleges and teacher training institutions under the control of one new statutory body. In particular a great deal of criticism has been levelled at the duplication in colleges of advanced education and in colleges of the Victorian Institute of Colleges. The suggestion has been raised that these bodies should be brought under the one controlling authority. This has led to some further comment along the same lines in a letter to the editor in the  Age  on 31 July.  Dr Bob  Bessant, senior lecturer at the School of Education at La Trobe University, had this to say: 
SIR,- It is to be hoped that the proposed inquiry into tertiary education in Victoria will not be confined to the problems created by the absorption of the State colleges within the Victorian Institute of Colleges and the establishment of a statutory committee to co-ordinate tertiary education in Victoria. 
In recent years similar inquiries in other States and at the Federal level have all studiously avoided any examination of the functioning of the universities. 
One gets the distinct impression that these institutions at the top of the tertiary status stakes have been carefully protected from public scrutiny while the spotlight has been turned on the colleges. 
Later on he said: 
Universities should not escape from critical scrutiny. 'Accountability ' is a dirty word in our universities, but it is one of those facts of life that university finance comes directly out of Treasury funds and out of the taxpayer's pocket. 
I give those examples to indicate that there has been a growing debate on the sort of expenditure in some post-secondary areas of education. Technical and further education, however, has been operating on a shoestring budget. There have been some major increases in expenditure but, by and large, I suggest that the institutions involved in technical and further education have been operating economically, have been making maximum use of community resources and have been providing courses that meet community and individual needs. I was therefore interested to note that the Australian Education Council which met in Cairns in July 1 976 said: 
Council is concerned at the difficulties being faced in providing funds to cope with the demands of technical and further education. These include the maintenance of programs commenced as a result of Commonwealth initiatives. The Council pressed strongly for a higher level of funding by the Commonwealth Government. 
Although there has been a large increase in expenditure on technical and further education, we have a body of Ministers urging that there be further increases. 
I give the example of the Box Hill Technical College. It is not completely within my electorate. In fact, it is based in the neighbouring electorate of Deakin, but it probably takes as many, or even more, students from my electorate as it does from the electorate of Deakin. Box Hill Technical College which operates at 4 locations in Box Hill, with an annex in Mitcham, makes maximum use of its facilities. It conducts courses at all hours to meet the convenience of a wide range of people, whether they be working people or housewives who want to pick up a few extra subjects. It evolves courses that are of interest and of use to people. If people have difficulty because of a lack of education in reading and writing in their earlier life, they run adult literacy programs in order to equip people to undertake various certificate level courses which the college offers. I believe that this is very desirable. 
In urging that we ought to give continued and further attention to the area of technical and further education I think we have to avoid some of the mistakes that have been made in universities and advanced education. We must avoid making institutions offering these types of courses entirely dependent on government financing in a way that allows them to lose touch with the community. While it is regrettable that many technical and further educational institutions have been operating on a shoestring budget, this has a major compensating feature. It requires them to keep in touch with the community because they cannot survive without community and industry support. They must find out what companies in their areas want and the sorts of skills they need and provide courses accordingly. They must rely greatly on the goodwill of the community from which they draw their students. Therefore, it means they have to maintain relevance in all that they do. This is a desirable feature which we must work to retain in technical and further education in this country. I applaud the increases in this area of the Budget and I hope we will be giving further attention to this area in future budgets. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the call in recent days by  Mr R.  J. Hawke and other Australians urging the Government to support a non-aligned foreign policy, to oppose military alliances and thereby abandon the ANZUS Treaty. Will the Minister dissociate the Government from those demands? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the Government's announcement earlier in the year that it would accept for permanent residence up to 800 Indo-Chinese refugees who had some special relationship with Australia or with Australians. Can the Minister tell the House how many people have been approved for permanent residence under this program? Are any additional Indo-Chinese migrants being accepted? What criteria must additional applicants satisfy to be approved for permanent residence? 
I share with honourable members who have already spoken in this debate the concern about the needs of young people seeking employment. However, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  when introducing this matter for debate provided some confirmation- unconscious confirmation perhaps on his part- that the previous Labor Government made at least some contribution to the problems we are facing at present in regard to youth unemployment. He said that many young people did not leave school last year because they feared they would not find a job. Therefore they stayed on in the education system. We will face the problem of coping with them when they leave school at the end of this year. Why, I ask, did they not leave school at the end of last year? It was surely because of the economic circumstances which were brought about by the previous Labor Government. We, for our part, now have to cope with the problem which will come on to our plate. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  made a few comments about the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the efforts of the Prime Minister as a local member in his own electorate to find employment for people who come to him with problems. I think that the honourable member for Burke would be well advised not to be critical when he is vulnerable himself. I shall quote what the honourable member said in this House on 18 February last in a speech in the Address-in- Reply debate: 
Only today I had a telephone call from one of my constituents, a man who is almost at retiring age, who is able to negotiate his retirement and who is willing to do so provided his son can have a job in the Public Service. This man has been told quite loudly and quite clearly that if he negotiates his own retirement he can go into retirement but the vacancy caused by his retirement cannot be filled by his son. 
The attitude of the honourable member for Burke to the question of employment is conditioned by the jobs-for-the-boys mentality of the previous Labor Government, as demonstrated by that quote. I remind the House that this Government took over an enormous problem. The economic policies pursued in previous years resulted in a transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector. The previous Government used the public sector as a pace setter in wage determination. This had the effect of raising the cost structure in Australia and reducing the ability of private business to invest. There was a 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut which severely hit many industries, particularly industries in decentralised areas where there are now severe pockets of unemployment, partly or even largely the result of that action. So there were a number of policies which reduced business confidence and which raised the cost structure of Australian industry in comparison with industry overseas. I shall quote what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  had to say in this House earlier this session when he pointed to the level of the wage rises that had occurred in Australia in previous years: 
In the 2 years to the December quarter 1974, real male award wage rates rose by the staggering figure of 1 6 per cent Bearing in mind that the long-term annual average is approximately 3 per cent, it is evident that the equivalent of a little over 5 years normal growth in real award wage rates was crammed into two. 
As one former Minister for Labor in the previous Government said, one man's wage increase is another man's job; and that is the situation that we face in Australia today. We have become uncompetitive compared with many overseas countries. I refer not merely to Asian countries such as Taiwan and South Korea where many manufacturers have established manufacturing facilities. But compared with many industries in the United States, we have become uncompetitive. So let us not hear the Opposition now cry crocodile tears for the unemployed who cannot find a job largely as a result of the policies that it pursued in the previous 3 years. 
There is a particular reason for many employers not wanting to employ juniors, and I agree with many of the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand in this respect. He pointed to the fact that wage rates for juniors are now higher, compared with the adult wage rates, than they were a number of years ago. This means that many employers prefer employing a mature person, someone with training and experience, rather than taking on a junior employee whom they have to train and from whom they do not get the productivity of an older employee. I have been speaking to a number of retailers recently and it is evident in that field. The large retailers still want to take on young people. Large retailers such as the Myer Emporium Ltd or David Jones Ltd or John Martin &amp; Co. Ltd want to take on young people every year to ensure that they have people moving through their training programs to provide their supply of future managers, future departmental supervisors, and so on. But some of the smaller employers in the suburbs, smaller retailers who just want to employ a couple of people and do not want an enormous training program that they have to maintain, much prefer to employ a mature woman coming back into the work force, in terms of her attitude to her work and her attitude to the customers, than to take on a young person fresh out of school and have to train him or her from scratch. So the measures that this Government has implemented have been designed to try to improve the productivity of the young employee to employers. 
We have introduced this special extension to the National Employment and Training scheme called the special incentive for youth employment training, which reduces the initial cost to the employer by providing a subsidy of $58 a week. It gets the young employee into industry and commerce and gives him or her practical training and work experience in skills that will be of direct use. We believe that this is the sort of constructive attitude which must be at the base of any scheme to provide work for school leavers and the young unemployed. Make-work schemes of a type which simply find something for people to do while providing them with a small wage may get them off the unemployment rolls and make the figures look better, but they do not in themselves remedy the problem and provide people with real work skills which they can take into another job in industry and commerce. We have to ensure that people are trained in skills which are of real use in the productive work force and which will be of benefit to those people in succeeding years. We have not only introduced the special incentive for youth employment training; we have also extended the NEAT scheme in other areas and made improvements to the scheme which apply to in-plant training. 
It is significant to note that the young unemployed is not taken into account in the wage fixing system in Australia- certainly not to the degree that he or she should be taken into account. There is no union to look after the interests of the young job seeker before the industrial tribunals in Australia. The unions that presently exist are there to a very large extent to represent those people who are presently employed. They represent the adult worker, not the person seeking work. So we are seeing the development of some groups of young unemployed in the community who are getting together to work on co-operative projects that will provide them with work and with an avenue for discussing their problems. So I think that in the long term we have to look at the role being played by wage fixing tribunals and the extent to which the system of wage fixation is militating against the best interests of the young person seeking work, who must have some period of training, some period of relatively unproductive employment before he is a fully useful member of the work force. 
There must also be a review of post-secondary education, and I am pleased to note the comments made in this regard by the Prime Minister recently. I believe that there has been an imbalance in the development of post-secondary education in Australia which has led to many of the structural problems that we face. Our educational institutions are turning out people who cannot be employed properly in the work force. 
-I am sure all honourable members were interested to hear the remarks by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  about people crowding into his electorate in order to get decent representation in this Parliament. We all enjoy the sometimes facetious remarks of the honourable member. Perhaps I might just as facetiously point out to him that the reason that people are flocking from the inner suburban electorates like Wills and Melbourne to the outer suburban electorates like Casey and La Trobe is so that they can get even better representation in this Parliament. However I do not expect that the honourable member for Wills will agree with that statement. 
I congratulate the Government on seeing fit to increase expenditure on education in a difficult' budgetary year. This Government came to office when the economy was run down. There was little opportunity for real growth in public expenditure in this Budget yet despite the dire predictions of many people who said that this Government would cut expenditure in this Budget in both real terms and absolute terms, it has seen fit to increase expenditure on education. That is a creditable performance in this difficult year. 
I want to refer to some of the problems that need to be dealt with in the Victorian education system because there have been some developments in that State which have been out of line, perhaps, with developments in other States. In Victoria we have had a very marked improvement in teacher/pupil ratios in our schools. In the past 4 years, for example, the Victorian Education Department has taken on one extra teacher for every 2 additional pupils so we now have one of the lowest teacher/pupil ratios in the world. It is the lowest in Australia. That certainly is a creditable performance but it is not without its cost. It has meant that in Victoria there has not been the expenditure on the capital side that one would like to see. I believe from my inspections of schools in Victoria as against schools in other States that many of them do not have the same quality of construction as schools in other States. I believe this is the next priority to be dealt with in terms of overall expenditure in the Victorian education system. 
I believe that there has to be some effort to resist the industrial demands made from time to time by teacher unions further to decrease this ratio and to spend more money on more teachers who teach for fewer hours per week. I could point to individual schools and particular classes where there are problems and I do not deny that there will be particular areas where we need to improve the teacher/pupil ratio but overall one of the major problems to be dealt with in terms of overall expenditure is this problem of the capital requirements of the Victorian education system. 
The Schools Commission in its report this year pointed to that particular problem. One can see that the problem arises because of the type of growth, the pattern of growth, which has occurred in Victoria. While there will be only 8000 additional children in Victorian schools next February the Victorian Department of Educationothers will be in a similar situation- will have to provide 30 000 new places. There seems to be a remarkable discrepancy- 8000 additional children as against 30 000 new places that will have to be provided. However the reason is the rapid expansion that has taken place in the outer suburban areas in particular, such as the suburbs in the Casey electorate, whereas in many of the more established inner or mid-suburban areas there have been declines in school populations leaving them with some surplus space but we cannot chop a couple of classrooms off one school and simply transport them to another which needs additional classes. Because of the imbalances of growth we have had there has been a great strain on the capital resources of the Victorian education system and I hope that when future allocations are made particular attention will be paid to this problem. 
I want to turn to a couple of particular aspects of the estimates for the Department of Education in which I have some interest. I refer in particular to the bilingual education program. While it might not appear to honourable members that the bilingual education program has much application to my electorate I would point out that in my electorate there is the Australian headquarters of the Summer Institute of Linguistics, the academic arm of the Wycliffe bible translators. This organisation is deeply involved in bilingual education programs not only in Australia but throughout the world. I think it is fair to say that it has played an initiating role in developing bilingual education programs in various parts of the world. The need for bilingual education programs in Australia has been recognised in recent years for the Aboriginal population in the Northern Territory in particular but it does have applications in other contexts as well. Of course, the idea behind the bilingual program is that the child who has learnt to speak another tongue- in the case of Australia, a tongue other than English- needs to be taught initially how to read and write in that language before making the jump into the English language. There is great difficulty in making the jump from a spoken language which has no literature immediately into the English language and being able to cope with the English literature involved. If that person can be taught to read and write in his or her own language the emotional and intellectual jump involved in then transferring to the English language is much easier to manage. This is the idea behind the bilingual education programs. 
In many cases, as far as Aboriginal communities are concerned, this has meant sending people out to actually put a language on paper in the first instance. Often this has involved moving among tribes in the situation in which they have lived for many years and starting from scratch to develop a literature for a few hundred people who speak that dialect. As a result great advances are being made in the teaching of English in Northern Territory schools. The role which the Summer Institute of Linguistics has played has not been limited to its particular religious attitudes and aims. As a group of people committed to a certain purpose or cause arising out of their religious beliefs they have been more prepared than most other people to commit themselves to spend 2, 3 or 4 years with a particular community in order to commit that language to paper. So it is that many governments throughout the world have seen fit to finance the Summer Institute of Linguistics in its activities in order to provide government agencies with the basic literature on which they can conduct bilingual educational programs. 
I can only applaud this move and hope that the good relationships which the Summer Institute of Linguistics has developed with the Department of Education and with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs will continue to grow and develop because there is mutual benefit in a cooperative relationship of this kind. I believe we can do a great deal more to apply the principle of bilingual education to many schools in the community other than the Aboriginal communities of Australia. In schools where there is a high migrant content the idea of a bilingual program has a great deal of merit. It seems to me, from my own inquiries, that in many instances a teacher coming out of a teachers college and who has more than one language- say a person of Greek background who has both Greek and English- is not likely to be posted to a school with a high concentration of Greek migrants. It seems that such teachers are posted anywhere but to a school with a concentration of Greek migrants. I believe there would be great advantages in ensuring that teachers with these skills are put into schools where they can be used to explain to school children in their own language the concepts involved which the education system is trying to impart. This would enable children to make the jump to the English language. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to raise a matter concerning refugees in Thailand from Indo-Chinese countries. Last week I asked a question of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar). 
Yes, it was a good question and the Minister gave me a good answer too. In it he indicated or at least strongly hinted that the Government was considering bringing in another group of refugees from the refugee camps in Thailand. He said:  the Government is concerned about its responsibilities in relation to refugee applications. These nominations are being gathered together. I am hopeful that in the not too distant future we will be in a position to make a further announcement in relation to additional refugees, particularly from the Indo-China area. 
The Minister in his answer quite properly pointed to the problem involved in sending people into the refugee camps in isolated areas of Thailand in order to conduct the necessary interviews and the health screening tests. He indicated that it was not possible to treat the nominations of these people in quite the way one would treat the nominations of people who were within easy reach of an Australian embassy in another country which had a more orderly system. 
I believe that Australia has a great responsibility to make a special effort to bring out greater numbers of Indo-Chinese refugees. A number have come into Australia already. Some of these people have passed through the Eastbridge Hostel in my electorate. I can assure the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Government generally that they have proved to be extemely good migrants. They have settled in exceptionally well. I have spoken to the staff of the local Mitcham High School, which is the school that takes most of the children at the hostel who are of secondary school age. The staff reports that compared with most other migrant groups these school children are showing an exceptional ability to settle in and adapt to Austraiian cultural patterns despite the fact that one might think that they come from a rather different cultural background and that this might hamper them in their integration into the Australian community. In fact, that does not seem to be so. 
I would simply make the point that whatever the rights and wrongs of Australia 's participation in the Vietnam war- and that can be argued at great length in this Parliament- I believe that no one in this Parliament should argue that Australia does not have a great moral responsibility to take additional numbers of these people from their refugee camps in Thailand. We cannot expect that the Thai Government will look after their interests to the maximum extent. There are troubles in Thailand already. In recent days we have read in the newspapers about the civil disturbances that have occurred in that country. Therefore I believe that we ought to take steps at the earliest opportunity, before there are any further civil problems which might hamper entry into Thailand and the remote areas in which the refugee camps are situated, to send a team of migration officers and health officers into these areas in order to bring out further numbers of people. I have in mind in particular the relatives of people who are already in Australia, people who have passed through Eastbridge and no doubt through other hostels as well. I have in mind people who have lost track of relatives, some of whom they last saw when Saigon airport was closed and have not heard of since. In many cases they at least have the information that their relatives escaped to Thailand. I have been passing on to the Minister the names and the last known addresses of many such people who have been brought to my attention by constituents and by Indo-Chinese migrants staying at the Eastbridge Hostel. I know that the Minister is considering those nominations together with all of the nominations he is receiving from all sources. 
Again I would simply try to urge as strongly as I can that the Government should take note of the plight of these people and recognise the particular responsibility that Australia has to them despite the problems that we have in some respects in settling people into Australia and problems of unemployment. Despite all of those problems, we have a responsibility to the people of the Indo-Chinese countries. 
-It is difficult to describe the sense of personal loss which I feel at the passing of Ivor Greenwood. I served on his personal staff from 1971 to 1972 when he was responsible for the portfolios of Health and Attorney-General. I also saw much of his work in the Liberal Party organisation, particularly during his period as Vice-President before he entered the Senate. I say, as one who was very close to him particularly in those 2 years on his personal staff, that I did not agree with all the views which he held but I always admired his commitment to his principles. As has already been said, publicly he was a stern, an uncompromising figure. Privately, those of us who knew him well knew him as an open minded person with a deep appreciation and interest in the views of others. He had a firm commitment to the principle of law. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has already commented, he expressed his views in the 1951 Communist Party dissolution referendum in a way which opposed the principle that was then being advanced and which led him into conflict with many people in his own Party. He subsequently became  President  of the Young Liberal Movement in Victoria. I am advised by some of the older hands in the Party that at the time there were cries of horror at the thought of this young radical being made  President  of the Young Liberal Movement in Victoria. 
We have seen many examples of the way in which he stood for his principles and the way in which, despite his public image, in a private sense he pursued the rights and liberties of the individual. I recall one incident, when I was working with him late at night in his office, of a young man and his wife coming to Parliament House looking for a lawyer who could witness a document that they had to sign and lodge with a particular departmental office in Canberra by 12 noon the next day. They were told somewhere down the road that about the only place they could find a lawyer in Canberra at that time of night was Parliament House because Parliament House was full of lawyers. The only lawyer working in Parliament House that night, it seemed, was the Attorney-General himself I met the young couple in Kings Hall and ushered them into the Attorney's office. The Attorney, on reading this form, did what most good lawyers do- he went back to the statute to see that they did have to fill in that sort of form. He discovered some errors in the way in which the form was made out. He corrected them and initialled the corrections before signing the form. Subsequently he gave instructions to his departmental head to ensure that the form was redrafted in accordance with the statute. He spent some time in a busy schedule attending to that personal matter, something that was of importance to someone who came for assistance. 
I also recall one occasion of which I cannot speak in great detail because it was a matter of a private conversation between him and me. He was concerned about the way in which he thought a particular Cabinet decision was going. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  might not know how close he came to losing his Attorney-General on that occasion. Fortunately the Cabinet made the right decision at the last moment. I am quite sure that the strong principles which Ivor Greenwood held and expressed would have been carried through to their logical conclusion on that occasion had the decision not been in accordance with those principles. 
Despite the views which Ivor Greenwood often expressed publicly, those of us who discussed matters with him privately often knew of the doubts and qualifications that he had about particular issues. Quite often he discussed matters with his friends at great length, involving us in the role of devil's advocate to try to knock down ideas and to put up other ideas. At the end of a long discussion he would come to a view that perhaps this was the right course of action, not without qualification in his own mind, but on balance and that this was the view he should take or the Government should take. Publicly he would bring to bear all of his powers as an advocate to express and espouse that view. Perhaps it was one of his faults that very rarely would he allow himself to express some of the doubts and qualifications he felt about many of the views he was expressing so firmly and so unequivocally in a public sense. 
So I have a great appreciation of the time that I spent with Ivor Greenwood and a great respect for his ability, for his integrity and for the contribution that he made to this Parliament and to the nation. I join with other honourable members in expressing my condolences to his widow Lola and to his children John and Deidre. 
-Does the Minister for Transport recall that earlier in the year I asked him a question about the safety of hang glider operations? Has he noted with concern the number of fatal or serious accidents involving hang gliders in recent months? Can he inform the House whether he has any plans to deal with the situation? 
-The Bill before the House seeks to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in a way which would allow the option of the collegiate system to be used in union elections. The 2 Opposition members who have spoken in the debate, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  have made a number of disparaging comments about the motives of the Government in introducing this amendment. For example, the honourable member for Gellibrand said that Government members should be ashamed to be associated with this legislation while the honourable member for Burke accused the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  of hypocrisy in his second reading speech. I am interested in those remarks because I would have thought in view of the system under which honourable members opposite operate that they would be ashamed to be associated with the remarks that have been made in this House because of the hypocrisy contained in them. 
I have with me an interesting document entitled the  Victorian Branch Constitution of the Australian Labor Party.  It makes fascinating reading because in it I find that the 2 honourable members who have recently spoken in this debate from the other side of the House owe their pre-selection to a collegiate system, not merely a one-tier collegiate system as would be permitted under this Bill but a 3-tier collegiate system. Let us look at the way in which that collegiate system is constructed, remembering that those honourable members said that collegiate systems can be open to manipulation. Federal members of the Australian Labor Party are pre-selected under a system involving a body of 70 people at a preselection convention. That 70-member body is made up of 40 members from a Public Office Selection Committee and 30 members from the Federal Electorate Assembly. The 40 members of the Public Office Selection Committee are chosen from 100 members of the Public Office Selection Committee who in turn are elected by a State Conference of the Labor Party. It in turn is made up of delegates from the branches and affiliated unions of the Labor Party. So between the membership of the Labor Party and the members who are pre-selected we have 3 tiers. 
However, in the case of the 30 members of the Federal Electorate Assembly the situation is not so bad because those 30 people are at least selected by the branch members within a federal electorate area. If we have a major portion of that body elected under a 3-tier collegiate system it ill becomes honourable members opposite to complain about this Government introducing the option of a one-tier collegiate system into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I have a second very interesting document in front of me called the  Rules, Platform and Standing Orders of the Australian Labor Party in South Australia.  It is another most interesting document although what it contains is perhaps a little more reasonable from the point of view of honourable members opposite because it provides for only a onetier collegiate system in the State body. People who are pre-selected for public office are selected from the State convention which is made up of delegates from the branches and affiliated unions. So the system involved in the document setting out the State constitution of the South Austraiian branch of the Austraiian Labor Party conforms with the principles of the amendment that the Minister has introduced into the House but not with the principles of the Act as amended by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  a South Australian member, in 1973. So let us not have talk about hypocrisy from honourable members opposite. I also was pre-selected under a pre-selection system involving a one-tier collegiate structure and I have no complaints about that. 
It was an excellent result in Casey. It was a good choice and it shows how democracy can work and produce excellent results. I make the point that no one system of union elections, whether it be by direct ballot of all members or by a collegiate system, in itself guarantees democratic control of that union. Both systems are open to manipulation in the hands of people with the wrong motives. Already we have had quoted the example of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union of which only 1.8 per cent of the membership voted in the ballot ibr the federal chairmanship. It is definitely the case that in many large unions where we are trying to implement a direct voting system it is enormously difficult for members of the union to have sufficient knowledge of the likely candidates to be able to cast a meaningful vote. So we get in the case of the AMWU a 1.8 per cent turnout. The disadvantage of the collegiate system is that where we have several tiers, such as the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party has in its pre-selection system which the honourable member for Burke has just recently survived by 2 votes, there can be manipulation by various interest groups. We know how members of the socialist left take over the 40 members of the Public Office Selection Committee who go on to pre-selection bodies in the Victorian Australian Labor Party. We know how that does occur. 
Manipulation by a few people can mean that there will be a self-perpetuating clique in a collegiate system. So there is no absolute right or wrong about either system, that is, direct voting or the collegiate system. What we have to ensure as far as possible is that the most appropriate system is used, depending on the circumstances of a union. 
We are giving them the choice of having either a direct system or a collegiate system, the collegiate system having built into it several safeguards. One safeguard is that the collegiate system which is proposed in the Bill would be only a one-tier system. In other words, the electoral college which will elect the senior officials of a union must itself be the subject of a direct vote of members of the union. So we cannot get a situation as we can in a multi-tier system whereby the senior officials of a union can be divorced by several steps from the rank and file membership of the union. However, having at least a one-tier collegiate system means that the difficulty of members not being able to campaign for office because of the expenses involved can be overcome. Imagine the problem faced by a moderate member of a union who wants simply to offer himself for election to office in a union with about 100 000 members. If he wants to make himself known to all the members of the union he will be faced with an enormous mailing campaign to get a piece of literature to every member of the union. He will be involved in expenditure to organise people, transport and all the sorts of things that go with an election campaign. At least in an electorate such as those represented by honourable members in this chamber one has some sort of geographical compactness within which to work. It is relatively easy, in metropolitan electorates at least, to letterbox' people and make sure that they receive some information telling them about oneself and one 's policies. 
In a national union with a membership spread throughout the length and breadth of 6 States and the Territories of Australia it is enormously difficult for any union member to become known in order to offer himself for election. A collegiate system with adequate safeguards contained in it would allow such unions to have a more democratic system of election of union officials than would a direct system. Also, it must be remembered that there is always the safeguard in section 140 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which allows members to challenge union rules which they believe are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust. A great deal of case law has already been built up in the Australian Industrial Court involving consideration of union rules that are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust. If a union seeks to implement union rules, governing the election of union officials, which do not accord with the general principles laid down in the Act, whether it be a direct system of election or a collegiate system union members can always challenge those rules in the Industrial Court. 
I believe that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is a reasonable man. Therefore, I will make an attempt to convince him by reason that the action of the Senate late last year in refusing the Budget was appropriate and a proper use of the Senate's powers. Let me quote some constitutional experts with whom, of course, the honourable member would agree. I refer to  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, Q.C. Let me quote his own words. The Leader of the Opposition at some stage in the past said in this House: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy this Budget and to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
Surely that was not the present Leader of the Opposition speaking! It was indeed. The date was 25 August 1970 when this House was debating the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1 970-7 1 . 
He was younger then and seemed to know his constitutional law at that stage. He would have tried to force a double dissolution if he had been able to obtain concurrence in his proposed action from the Australian Democratic Labor Party. There is no doubt that he sought to obtain that DLP concurrence. Let me give  Mr Whitlam  another 'fair go' to state his view. On 12 June 1970  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The Labor Party believes that the crisis which would be caused by such a rejection should lead to a long term solution. Any government which is defeated by the Parliament on a major taxation Bill should resign. 
Those are his words. Let us give him a third chance. I quote his words again. On 1 October 1970 he said: 
We all know that in British parliaments the tradition is that if a money Bill is defeated, as the receipts duties legislation was defeated last June, the Government goes to the people to seek their endorsement of its policies. 
Let us turn now to another constitutional expert. I refer to a former Attorney-General in the previous Government,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, who is now  Mr Justice  Murphy. As reported in  Hansard,  he said on 18 June 1970: 
The Opposition will oppose these measures. In doing this, the Opposition is pursuing a tradition which is well established, but in view of some doubt recently cast on it in this chamber, perhaps I should restate the position. 
He continued: 
The Senate is entitled and expected to exercise resolutely but with discretion its powers to refuse its concurrence to any financial measure, including a tax Bill. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers, excepting the limitations imposed by discretion and reason. 
He went on to say: 
The Australian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure wherever necessary to carry out our principles and policies. 
Is it not amazing that in those days honourable members opposite, including the present Leader of the Opposition, saw with such clarity the constitutional principles involved? It was only late last year that some new light suddenly shone in their consciousness and they were able to recognise some other principle. We on this side of the House can only assume that the difference was that in 1970 they were in Opposition and were trying to defeat the then Liberal-Country Party Government. When they were in government they were prepared to use whatever means and whatever tactics were available to them to stay in power, including putting pressure on the private banks to provide funds, which was suggested at one stage. We look with interest at the record and the record shows that honourable members opposite have supported the principle that the Senate has the power to refuse Supply and that if it does that an election should follow. 
-Can the Prime Minister say when local government authorities in Victoria can expect to receive payment of the general revenue assistance grants which will flow to them as a result of the passage of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill? 
-When the Labor Government first came to office it inherited an unemployment rate of about 135 000; when it left office the rate was 328 000. Again, when it came to office the rate of unemployment amongst young people under twenty was 80 000; when it left office that figure had risen to 1 52 000. 1 suppose we have to give Labor Party members some credit in this debate. They are experts on creating unemployment so they ought to be able to talk about that subject to some extent. In their 3 years in government the rate of youth unemployment doubled. I suggest that the answer to the problem of youth unemployment is not in more and more government spending as honourable members opposite often tend to suggest. That was the solution tried by the Labor Government when it was in office. The huge increases in government spending, together with the high wage explosion that was brought about at least partly through the use of the Public Service as a pacesetter in wage fixation, and the consequent lack of competitiveness of Australian industry, led to the high rate of unemployment. It was that very lack of competitiveness of Australian industry which largely brought about the recent devaluation. That devaluation has in fact saved the jobs of 400 people at Mount Lyell in 
Tasmania. I was interested to note the comments of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that devaluation would not save jobs. He should tell that to the Tasmanians. They certainly will not accept that for a moment. Many other jobs will be saved as a result of devaluation. 
Most of last year's school leavers have been employed. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  said earlier in this debate that 95 per cent of last year's school leavers have found jobs. I suggest to the House that the major difficulty in youth unemployment is not so much with the school leavers but with the young person who perhaps left school at an early age without obtaining a high degree of skill and who has had two or three  jobs  which he has lost for either good or bad reasons. As a result that person looks a very bad prospect for any potential employer. That person would look to be a potentially unstable employee. I suggest that it is in that area of youth unemployment that we have the major problem; it is not so much with the recent school leaver. Most employers will give the recent school leaver a chance at least in his first job. It is when he develops some record of instability, combined with a lack of skill and a lack of qualification that he becomes, in an employer's eye, a bad risk. 
I want to tell the House what has happened under the special youth employment training program which this Government introduced. I think it must rate as being an outstanding success by any measure. Some 2300 young people have now been placed in training under the program. It has been particularly pleasing to note that almost half of the trainees have been placed in New South Wales where previously it had been extremely difficult to obtain vacancies for young people. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  would be quick to tell me that Tasmania has had the best pro rata achievement with respect to this program. In Tasmania alone 153 young people have found jobs under this program. In  Victoria  385 people have found jobs under the program. In New South Wales the figure is 818 people. This is the largest number in any one State, as I mentioned earlier. The honourable member for Gellibrand also said, as I understood him, that the careers guide was not being printed. I want to inform him and the House that the careers guide is being printed in Tasmania, Victoria and South Australia. Next year a national careers guide will be printed with supplements for each State. The project is definitely going ahead. 
It is being printed. 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand was saying that it was not going to be printed. To continue with my own remarks, I would like to say a little more about the work that this Government is doing in offering vocational guidance to young people. Again I thought the honourable member for Gellibrand was quite scathing in his criticism of what was happening in that respect. Through the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service the Government provides not only job placement assistance but also job information and counselling. I would like to quote what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said on 7 September in a debate on a similar subject. It is to the discredit of the honourable member for Gellibrand that he apparently did not take any notice of what was said on this occasion. The Minister said: 
In relation to job information, career reference centres have been established in all capital cities and some major provincial cities throughout Australia. Over 200 000 inquiries were made at career reference centres in the last financial year. 
The offices of the CES also have several hundred counsellors who visit schools through the year with advice and information on careers. In the last financial year over 140 000 school leavers received such information and advice. Both the employment offices and the regional offices are equipped with trained psychologists, who provided vocational guidance to over 24000 people in the last financial year. 
It may be argued that more could be done. I do not quarrel with that proposition. I assure the House that a considerable amount is being done. I think more is being done than the House was led to believe earlier by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
The Government believes that, in its measures to assist the young unemployed, it should concentrate on programs which give them real job experience in a real commercial and industrial environment. I suggest that one of the problems with programs such as the former Regional Employment Development scheme is that job creation programs can too easily become job replacement programs. Quite often these programs do not necessarily give the people employed a degree of skill which will make them an attractive employee to a potential employer. The programs keep them busy for a while. Such a program may keep them occupied for several months or even longer depending on now long the project lasts, but it does not necessarily impart any skills that will be of continuing use to 
I know of some municipal authorities which used the RED scheme not to create additional jobs for unemployed people but which, in fact, used the scheme as a way of getting their maintenance work done on the cheap- replacing the work that would have been done by other fulltime council officers. I think we need to consider the disadvantages of a scheme such as the RED scheme. Let us not examine the short-term solutionsthe short-term palliatives- but try to introduce schemes which will give to the unemployed real job experience. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, will be relieved to know that I rise to support the Government and oppose the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr 
Cohen). I think the concepts which were put forward by the honourable member in respect of worker participation are rather inadequate. I suggest to the Committee that, to write into the legislation at this stage a provision which requires a representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staffs Association to be appointed as a Commissioner, is, at the very least, premature and probably runs counter to a proper concept of the role of the Commissioners. Let me discuss very briefly concepts of worker participation. That phrase has been bandied about a lot. It refers to a number of things, according to the ideas which people have. The first idea which is often meant by worker participation is some sort of financial participation in the enterprise such as a staff shareholding in a company or a profit sharing arrangement. The best known example of staff shareholding in Australia, I suppose, is Fletcher Jones and Staff Pty Ltd where staff shareholding is part of the structure of the company. Of course, financial participation does not apply to public corporations or commissions such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
The second idea which is often meant by worker participation is representation on boards of directors or commissions. There are a number of disadvantages to be considered in this form of representation, as well as a number of advantages. But let me point to some of the problems. One problem is that representation on a commission or a board of directors by, say, an elected representative of the staff or employees of an organisation can mean mere tokenism. The commission or company can ensure that it has one representative of the staff as a director. It appoints 8 other people in a manner which 6 ensures that the one representative of the staff is outvoted eight to one every time. This does not necessarily mean a great deal in terms of real participation by the staff of an organisation in the decision making process of that organisation. 
Another problem which sometimes arises is one of conflict of interests between the role which a person has to play as a member of the commission and his role as a representative of the staff. Let me point to a commission which is within the Minister's portfolio and which I think provides a very good example of this situation. I refer to the Postal Commission. A member of that Commission is  Mr George  Slater. I know he is an appointed member and was not elected by the staff. But in a sense he is a representative of the union concerned because he is the general secretary-treasurer of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union.  Mr Slater  was in the interesting position of being a member of the Commission at the time of the Medibank strike. As a member of the Commission I presume that he, with his fellow commissioners, expected employees of the Commission to turn up for work on the day of the declared Medibank strike. Post Offices were kept open in order to receive anyone who cared to turn up for work. But as an official of the union he had some responsibility for the action which the union subsequently took in disciplining members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union who in fact turned up for work in breach of the decision of the Federal Executive of that union that there should be a strike on that day. So  Mr Slater  had this rather impossible conflict of interests. I suggest that this is one of the problems that has to be resolved about formal staff representation on commissions of this nature. 
The other point I make about representation on boards and commissions concerns the role commissioners are expected to play. By and large, ABC commissioners do not represent outside bodies. It seems to me that the present staff elected commissioner is the only person who is, in some sense, responsible to an outside constituency to whom he reports. The General Manager of the ABC,  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton, is not a member of the Commission. He has to walk out of Commission meetings, which he is usually allowed to attend, when the Commission decides that there is something too confidential for the General Manager to hear. But the representative of the staff is able to sit in the Commission. So, that is one problem, I ask: If we have commissioners who are in some sense representative of outside bodies, do we have an elected representative of the consumers- Auntie 's Nieces and Nephews or whatever organisation we might have? Do we have a representative of the management, such as the General Manager? Do we have a representative of government in a formal sense who formally reports to government? 
We have seen how the present incumbent, the elected staff representative, in fact reports to his constituency. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  earlier read out excerpts of a public report which that representative made lining up the 'goodies' and the 'baddies' on the Commission, as far as he was concerned. So I believe an important matter of principle has to be determined here. Are members of the Commission to be appointed to represent some outside body or are they to be people appointed in their own right because of the expertise they have developed in various areas and perhaps representative of a broad range of interests, not necessarily of a specific group. 
My objection to the legislation in its initial form was that it seemed that it required some people to be removed from the present Commission. I believe that people ought to be allowed to serve out their existing terms. That was something on which I had a strong view. Nonetheless I think it would be a mistake to write into the legislation a provision requiring a staff elected representative on the Commission. This Government very clearly is not against union representation on various boards and commissions. 

 - Sir John Egerton is in such a position.  Mr Hawke  is on the board of the Reserve Bank of Australia. No one suggests that he goes out of the Reserve Bank board meetings and reports to the executive or the congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on what has transpired at those Board meetings. I think that honourable members on both sides of the Committee would be horrified if confidential matters, discussed on the Reserve Bank board, were reported outside in that way. There is a great deal of merit in ensuring that there are suitable trade union representatives on various government boards and commissions. I suggest that writing into the legislation the provision in the form which has been suggested in the amendment is not the best way to go about it. 
The third thing that is meant by many people when they talk of worker participation is the idea of job enrichment, job enlargement and consultation throughout the whole of an organisation. I suggest to the Committee that the Government's legislation makes provision for a very substantial move in the direction of worker participation. The legislation provides for the setting up of a joint consultative committee which would bring together representatives of the Commission and of officers and full time employees of the Commission. If ABC staff members are genuinely concerned about having a real say in the affairs of the Commission it would be to their advantage to ensure that they make the most vigorous representations possible on the structure of this consultative committee and the way in which information from all sections of the ABC staff will be fed into it. In that way every section of the staff- the administrative, technical, creative and artistic staff- can make sure that at the appropriate level of the organisation they are able to have their say and to inject some element into the decision making processes of the ABC. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs. With the recent international success of films such as  Caddie  which received financial assistance during the International Women's Year, can the Minister inform the House whether anything further is being done to ensure a continuing contribution by women to the Australian film industry? 
I support the 4 Bills which propose amendments to the Constitution. Many Australians may find it rather strange that politicians from both sides of this Parliament can agree on a number of important measures that are put before us. In a sense, this is a non-debate in which we are engaged. I was, however, rather interested in a statement which was made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he took up one point in the Bill which relates to the filling of Senate casual vacancies. He said that he hoped that one clause of that Bill could be strengthened and spelt out somewhat. He referred to that part of the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill which states that a senator who is appointed to fill a vacancy should be a member of the Party of the senator who is deceased or has been appointed elsewhere. He said that he wanted to see that strengthened to provide that not only should that replacement senator be a member of the same Party but he should, in some way, be officially approved by that Party. 
I appreciate the reasons for his saying that, but I point out that later in the same Bill there is a provision that if the new senator, before taking his seat, ceases to be a member of that Party, he shall be deemed not to have been so chosen or appointed, and the vacancy shall again be notified in accordance with section 21 of the Constitution. That effectively provides the political Party concerned with the power of veto of a particular appointment if that political Party feels that the State Government has not done the right thing and has chosen someone other than a person who would be approved by the formal endorsing authority of that Party. In the case of  Senator Field,  for example, who was a member of the Australian Labor Party and was known as a trade unionist, the Labor Party in that State would have had the option, as indeed it did, of expelling him. By expelling him before he took his seat it would therefore be able to prevent him taking his appointment. 
The member for Kingsford-Smith, I think, was probably not satisfied with that provision. He wanted to see, as I understand it, some more formal system of ensuring that the person appointed to fill a casual vacancy was approved in some official way by an appropriate authority of that Party. I suggest that the way in which this Bill has been drafted steers a very skilful middle course. It has been very skilfully drafted to avoid some evils which could occur at either end of the spectrum. It is one thing to have a convention that a casual vacancy should be filled by a member of the same political Party and for the State Parliament, under normal circumstances, to appoint the nominee of the relevant executive body of that Party. It would be another thing, I believe, to give formal constitutional recognition to the role of executive bodies of political parties. It is appropriate to acknowledge the principle that a member of the same political Party should fill the vacancy, as the Bill does. The system of proportional representation is maintained by adherence to such a principle. It is appropriate that a political Party should be guaranteed a voice in the process of selecting that nominee. I hope I have indicated that in this Bill there is a guarantee of that political Party having a voice in veto of a nominee that it does not like. 
The Bill falls short of requiring that a political Parry's nominee should be automatically accepted, and I believe wisely so. The Bill leaves the power of appointment in the hands of State parliaments. It would, I think, be inappropriate to have a constitutional measure which leaves the power of appointment formally in the hands of some executive authority of a political Party. Parliaments are identifiable constitutional entities. I suggest that State Party executives are not necessarily identifiable and certainly are subject to drastic change from time to time. The names of parties change. They collapse, they re-emerge, they split, they amalgamate, they re-form. 
Let me give a few examples of cases in which it might be difficult if we were required to follow a strict provision that the endorsed candidate of a Party executive body should be accepted by the State Parliament, which would effectively remove any discretion from the State Parliament. Let us take the example of a Party which splits some time after an election. Certain members of the Party in the Senate go with the minority Party that might be formed as a result of the split. Subsequently one of the members of the minority Party dies or is appointed to some position outside the Senate. The question would arise as to whether the State executive of the Party whose endorsement he bore when he was elected should have the right to nominate someone to succeed him or whether the State executive of the new Party which was formed as a result of the split should be able to nominate someone to succeed him. I believe that in that sort of case there would be a dispute between those 2 parties, which may be subject to judicial review. There would be effectively taken out of the hands of the State Parliament any discretion to decide on an appropriate way of filling the vacancy. 
Let us look at the reverse case, where there has been not a split but a reunification. Assume that  Senator Steele  Hall was run over by the proverbial bus and had to be replaced. Who would claim the right to nominate his replacement? Would it be the Liberal Party, or would it be the Liberal Movement which still continues in South Australia under  Mr Robin  Millhouse? I think the Liberal Movement might want to put forward a nominee as replacement. 
I am suggesting that there should not be an automatic requirement on a State Parliament to accept the nomination of a State executive or some endorsing authority because I believe that it is difficult, in constitutional terms, to define the appropriate endorsing authority of a political Party. Even where a recognised Party authority nominates someone as an endorsed candidate, I suggest that there might be circumstances in which it would be inappropriate for a parliament to accept that nomination. 
Perhaps what I have to say now will prove to be a little more controversial. A political party may choose to nominate as a candidate for appointment to the Senate someone whom it would not be prepared to put on its party ticket at an election because that party might know that the person whom they were nominating would not have public appeal and might in fact lose it votes if he had to face an election. Moreover, a political party might nominate for appointment to the Senate someone who has already been on a party ticket and who has been clearly rejected by the people in that State. For example, I throw in the name of  Mr Bill  Hartley. It is unquestioned that many people in Victoria, normal moderate Labor voters, avoided his name on the Labor Party ticket when they were casting their vote. 
-There is ample evidence to suggest that. Any scrutineer from any political party in Victoria I think will vouch for the fact that there were cases where people clearly followed the Labor ticket except for that No. 5 spot on the Labor ticket which carried the name of  Mr Bill  Hartley. Is it therefore consistent with the principle of following the wishes of the electors of that State if his name is submitted and automatically accepted? I just throw in for consideration the possibility that in that type of instance it may well be competent for the State Parliament concerned to say: 'That the name is not acceptable we would like you to put up another name'. Therefore I believe it would be undesirable to put a complete straightjacket on a State Parliament in the selection of a senator. In the Bill as it stands there is a protection for the political party concerned, a protection which would ensure that a  Senator Field  could not be nominated and the claim made that he was an adequate representative of that political party. 
I would like to move very quickly to the other matters which are before the House at this stage. One Bill refers to the retiring age of judges. It requires that there be a maximum retiring age of 70 years. In addition to the support that has been stated by other honourable members in this Chamber, I want to state my support for this proposal. We do not want geriatric judges dominating the judicial system. No one denies that many of the judges who have reached advanced years, the names of whom were recited by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  retain high intellectual talents which can be of use to the community. But not everyone recognises when those intellectual talents are being dimmed. If there is any fear that by requiring judges to retire at 70 years of age we will be losing talents that could be used in the service of the community, I suggest that that fear should be set aside. There are surely many cases where we require royal commissioners, people to serve on boards and committees of inquiry and people to be appointed as directors or commissioners of government authorities for periods of one, three or five years- specified terms after which they must retire. In all of these instances retired judges could be most useful. They could be selected for a purpose which is suited to their intellectual talents and to the time that they have available. So I would suggest that we would not lose the talents of experienced judges as a result of this measure. We will in fact be able to use them in many other areas where there is often a scarcity of suitable people. 
I want to say on behalf of the residents of the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne that another Bill before the House which proposes to enable the residents of Federal Territories to vote in referendums is a most desirable one. I find it rather strange for some people to suggest that the residents of the Territories are in some way not citizens of the Commonwealth. I know that they have drawn these conclusions from reading certain extracts from recent High Court judgments. I would think that most people in Australia would recognise that residents of the Territories are citizens of Australia and that they should not be excluded by some narrow legal definition from exercising their rights to vote in national referendums. Of course, residents of the Territories will not be counted in terms of the requirement for a majority of the States to pass a measure but it is surely appropriate that they be counted on matters concerning the government of Australia as a whole- the structure of government which our Constitution provides. They, as citizens of the Territories, have as much right to express a view on that matter as do citizens of the States. I find any suggestion to the contrary quite incredible to accept. 
The proposal concerning simultaneous elections is once again something that is eminently reasonable. I think that the vast majority of people hold the view that they should be able to cast their vote for both Houses at the one time and not be required to go along for a second time to vote for half of the Senate only. This is a chore to which no citizen looks forward. It is certainly a chore which none of our Party supporters look forward to getting involved in. The occasions when I get least enthusiasm from my own Party supporters- I am sure this is the experience of honourable members opposite- is when they have to get out and campaign for a Senate election only and not for their local member in the House of Representatives. For those reasons I believe that the measures before us will be accepted by the Australian people. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I remind the Minister of representations that have been made to him on behalf of East 
Timorese refugees presently living in Portugal. What action has been taken by the Minister to consider the situation of East Timorese evacuees in Portugal who wish to be reunited with close relatives in Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister consulted with representatives of the medical profession on the proposed wages-prices freeze? If so, can he say what the attitude of the profession will be? 
-The Government opposes the motion proposed for the Opposition by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  To begin with, let me state clearly and unequivocally that the Government is most concerned at the continuance of the high level of unemployment in Australia and the resultant scarcity of the job opportunities for a large number of willing job seekers. It is concerned with constructive measures to overcome the current situation. I will shortly indicate the action the Government is taking to gather the very information which it is proposed should be gathered by the committee that the motion before the House would set up. I will also outline the constructive measures this Government has taken to assist and retrain the unemployed. But first it should be stated that the Opposition when in government created massive unemployment and wrought long term damage on the Australian economy. It was responsible for economic vandalism which reduced employment opportunities and frightened away investment that would have created new employment opportunities. As has been pointed out before in this House, when the Labor Government came to office it inherited an unemployment figure of about 135 000. When it left office the rate was 328 000. Moreover, as far as unemployment amongst the young is concerned- amongst those under 20- when Labor came to office the figure was 80 000 and when it left office the figure was 152 000, or nearly double. We can credit the Opposition with at least one thing, and that is with being experts in the creation of unemployment. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand in his comments asserted that this Government was seeking to direct the blame for the unemployment situation on the supposed inadequacy and the method of collection of the unemployment figures by the Commonwealth Employment Service. Certainly members of this Government have raised valid questions about the appropriateness of the method of collection and of some of the figures that are collected. But the honourable member for Gellibrand cannot claim innocence in that respect because in  Hansard  of 11 September 1975, when his Party was in government, he asked the following question in this House: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration inform the House why the unemployment figures compiled by the Department of Labor and Immigration from its Commonwealth Employment Service records are substantially in excess of those produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics through its quarterly labour force survey? In view of the fact that the Bureau's unemployment figures are compiled on an internationally accepted basis, what reliance can be placed on the CES figures as an accurate measure of unemployment in this country? 
I do not complain about the honourable member asking that sort of question, but it does indicate that at least he has had some doubts, certainly while his Party was in government, about the accuracy of the figures produced. We do need to make sure that the figures are as accurate as possible and give as comprehensive a range of information about the composition of the unemployed as is possible. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  in his comments made a remark that this Government had set up an inquiry into trade union training without consultation with the trade union movement. I point out that the inquiry is to be conducted by a 3-man committee comprising a  chairman,  who is a Commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, a businessman, and the  President  of the Trades and Labour Council of Queensland. Some lack of consultation when there is a trade union leader on the very committee which is to conduct the inquiry! I also point out that the Government has already established certain official inquiries which will look into many of the aspects mentioned in the Opposition's motion. Firstly, let me refer to the Norgard inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service. The terms of reference of that inquiry state: 
The Review should include an investigation of the provision of special employment assistance to particular groups who need additional help to find suitable employment . . . 
They further state: 
The Review should extend to an examination of the provision of occupational information and counselling as to occupation/vocation and as to how best to facilitate placement in suitable employment. 
They go on: 
The role of the CES in the collection of information on the labour market which may be ised for economic policy purposes and the development and modification of manpower policies and programs, as well as to meet operational requirements of the CES, should be investigated by the Review. In this, regard should be had to the limitations inherent in the data provided by the Service as identified by the Report of the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics. 
In other words, that inquiry will deal with the very question raised in this House by the honourable member for Gellibrand on 1 1 September 1 975. A related inquiry which has been instituted by this Government is the Myers inquiry into unemployment benefit policy and administration. The terms of reference for the inquiry require it to examine the adequacy in present circumstances of the underlying concept and philosophy of the existing system. The inquiry will bring forward recommendations as to whether the system requires modification and, if so, in what respects, to adequately express the Government's basic policy of directing assistance to those most in need. The inquiry is also to assess, in the light of any policy changes it may recommend, the extent to which present administrative arrangements and procedures may need to be modified to ensure effective administration of both the national employment service and the provision of income support to unemployed persons. The inquiry will take into account the material submitted to and the conclusions reached by the Norgard review of the CES on unemployment benefit administration. 
A further inquiry will be conducted into postsecondary education by Professor Williams, and certain aspects of that inquiry relate to the matter presently before the House. A major purpose of the Williams inquiry is to examine the adequacy and appropriateness of the training offered by post-secondary institutions as a basis for people's productive and fulfilling participation in the work force. The Government recognises that there are many people who wish to work but cannot find acceptable employment. It is also undoubtedly the case that many employers regularly advertise for staff but receive Utile response or, alternatively, receive a response from people who are unsuitable for the vacancies available. There is therefore an imbalance in the labour market. In some occupational categories there is a shortage of trained people. In other cases, employers are willing to employ only the very best applicants offering because of the high cost of employing labour. Many employers would prefer to leave positions vacant rather than fill them with people they assess as marginally productive workers who may not enable the business to recoup the cost of employing them. This is the process of wage increases pricing workers out of a job. As a former Minister for Labor in the Australian Labor Party Government said, 'one man's wage rise is another man's job'. 
The Government has taken constructive steps to deal with the situation of the imbalance in the labour market. Firstly let me outline some of the important changes which have been implemented in the National Employment and Training scheme. In January 1976, shortly after the present Government took office, some 7300 persons were training with assistance under NEAT. In the time since then a quite remarkable growth has been achieved. At the end of February 1977 NEAT trainees numbered 15 500 as against the 7300 I mentioned earlier. That represents the highest level of trainees obtained since NEAT began in October 1974. Thus, under the present Government in just over one year general labour market training under NEAT has drastically increased. Basic to this growth has been a major reorientation of the training undertaken. Of the 7300 trainees at January 1976, 70 per cent were receiving assistance with training, which comprised attendance at educational institutions. However, it was evident that numbers of them were training for jobs which would experience a reduced demand in the labour market, and certainly events since then have proved that point. The Government therefore endorsed the approach that the NEAT scheme should complement the Government's overall policy in bringing about economic recovery in Australia, that is, that it should be more closely oriented to the needs of the labour market, and emphasis was needed under NEAT on assisting the unemployed and getting them into secure employment. This entailed assistance for more onthejob training. Despite its cost effective features, this form of training had previously been only a minor part of the NEAT scheme. In the result, 85 per cent of NEAT trainees are currently undergoing this revised form of training. 
I point out also that in our amendments to the National Employment and Training scheme, we have implemented a special youth employment training program. The special youth employment training program was begun last November. The purpose of that program is to help young people who have been unable to establish themselves in stable employment by giving them the opportunity for a reasonable period of up to 6 months of on-the-job training. Employers who take on people who have been previously unemployed are subsidised in order to give such persons an approved program of training. In this way we intend to make sure that people get proper on-the-job training which will fit them for a productive role in the work force. 
I wish to speak about the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-Time Training scheme- CRAFT- which the Commonwealth has introduced. Great improvements have been made in the assistance available for apprenticeship training in Australia. An increase in the supply of skilled tradesmen is a vital ingredient of economic recovery. Apprenticeship provides the main source of our future tradesmen. The purpose of CRAFT is to increase the training of tradesmen through apprenticeship and to provide more opportunities for school leavers to train for worthwhile and satisfying careers. Grants have been made to the States for that purpose. I point also to the educational program for unemployed youth which has been instituted. The Government has made available to the States grants to a total of $ 1.5m for 1977 for the development and conduct of courses which would be specially designed for the young unemployed who have educational qualifications which are low or inadequate in today's labour market conditions. Again, this is a constructive step to try to improve or to correct the imbalance in the labour market. 
Before I finish, I point out that the Commonwealth has implemented the community youth support scheme which provides financial assistance to community groups, including recognised youth organisations, for supportive programs and services to the young unemployed. These programs and services will seek to improve the ability of unemployed youth who apply for jobs and find employment. It will help them to maintain a sense of direction and purpose including an orientation to work. It is important to note that in all of these measures the Government has taken a constructive attitude in the setting up of inquiries to provide further information in areas where there is doubt and dispute about the accuracy of information already available and also to implement, wherever possible, constructive schemes which will ensure that people are given a productive role in the work force instead of merely roping them into make work schemes which keep them busy for a few months but do not provide them with any qualifications, training or skills which they can offer to potential employers and which will enable them to take a constructive role in the work force. That is the problem with a number of these make work schemes. It is true that they do to a large extent remove people from the unemployment lists. But they do not give them the long term skills which they need to make them productive and useful members of the work force who can carry out their functions in a fulfilling way. 
All in all, I suggest that the Government has beaten the Opposition to the punch and already launched inquiries and programs which are designed to deal with the matters raised in the Opposition's motion. The Government therefore rejects the motion. It believes that the steps it is already taking are appropriate ones which recognise that there is a problem. We are dealing with it in the most constructive way. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to that section of the first Ranger Uranium Inquiry report which refers to The Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter? Has he noted the comment in the report that Australia has not become a party to this convention? Does the Government intend to ratify this convention? If so, what steps are being taken to this end? 
-Has the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen reports that he is considering appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Council in the very near future? Is he also aware of submissions to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal inquiry into selfregulation which would impinge on the nature of appointments to the proposed Council or which even question the desirability of such a Council? Can he give an assurance that he will wait until he receives the report of the Broadcasting Tribunal on the concept of self-regulation before proceeding with any appointments to the Council? 
-The House is debating amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which will have the effect of establishing an Industrial Relations Bureau. At the same time, we are debating a Bill to establish the National Labour Consultative Council. I think we must take pity on the Opposition for the position in which it finds itself. Just about everything that it has had to say in this debate, as indicated by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  is irrelevant to the real debate. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  has effectively cut the ground from under the Opposition's feet by reaching the agreement with the Government that he has. We now find that the Opposition in this House is in the rather remarkable position of stating that it not only opposes the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1977, which was introduced a few weeks ago, but also will oppose the Bill as it is to be amended, according to the statement by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  That is a rather incredible situation for members of the Opposition to find themselves in. We can imagine their chagrin at the fact that on this occasion  Mr Hawke  has acted as the  President  of the ACTU and not as the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, and he is to be complimented for taking that action. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand did not discuss the agreement with the ACTU until the last few minutes of his speech, but he did say that the unions and the employers were totally opposed to the legislation introduced into this House by the Minister a few weeks ago. I think that to most of us who have talked to representatives of unions and employers that is palpably untrue. Representatives of employer organisations in their public statements have varied in their attitudes but, by and large, there has been subtantial agreement with the main thrust and intention of the legislation to set up an Industrial Relations Bureau. There have been comments and criticisms on particular items of the legislation, on the consequences and the provisions relating to individual rights in particular, and the Minister himself has acknowledged that. But quite apart from the employers, many of us have been in a position where we have spoken to a number of middle ranking trade union officials, who have said to us: 'Publicly we cannot support the legislation because it would not be in our interests to do so, but privately we can tell you that we would not be greatly disappointed if the legislation went through, with a few amendments here and there'. There is in fact a greater degree of acceptance by the trade union movement of the main thrust of this legislation than honourable members opposite care to acknowledge. 
Let me try to put the Government's industrial legislation in context. There has been a history of industrial legislation which has always provoked a great deal of disagreement and sometimes conflict in this country. The trade union movement developed out of a situation where capital was more powerful than labour. During the last century, in many countries and in Austalia in particular master and servant legislation was passed which in many respects was discriminatory against employees. There were very few rights for employees. Employees who left their employment or who were absent from a day's work faced severe consequences, quite often being thrown into gaol for what we would now regard as very minor industrial offences. They were treated by the master and servant legislation of the time as chattels or even as slaves, and I think that is the right word to use to describe the Tasmanian legislation which existed last century. So associations of labour got together and fought to redress the balance, to remove discriminatory laws, and to build up the strength of organised labour so that it could bargain with employers from a position of equal strength. Much of the trade union movement's traditional hatred of penalties in industrial affairs has its basis in that history of struggle. But the present situation we face is that in many respects organised labour is more powerful than the vast majority of small and medium sized companies in Australia. We have a situation in which, if a large union or group of unions is ranged against one of the smaller to medium sized businesses, the balance of economic and industrial power is very strongly on the side of the trade unions. Therefore, trade unions have immense power which can be used for good or ill. 
Trade unions today are recognised as organisations in our community with an accepted role to play in industrial affairs and even in national affairs. However, whilst that implies that trade unions and trade unionists have rights protected by the law, it also implies that they have responsibilities and obligations. In that respect, 2 trends in the development of industrial affairs in recent years should be noted with concern. The first is that because of the growing complexity of the economy, which means that industrial disputes have an impact far beyond their immediate effect, quite often disputes involving small numbers of people will have enormous ramifications throughout the community. For example, 230 tanker drivers in Victoria, who recently determined that they should go on strike, can bring the whole State virtually to a halt. We have seen how the actions of a few hundred air traffic controllers can have severe effects on the movement of people and goods and the carrying out of commerce in Australia and our international trade. In industries such as the power generation industry we find that if a few dozen key maintenance workers go on strike not only can they bring the power station or that power industry to a halt but also their actions have ramifications throughout the community, causing lost production and lay-offs amongst people who have had no direct interest in that dispute. 
The point I want to make by citing those examples is that there is a public interest to protect. Quite often in the conduct of industrial relations the public interest is not properly asserted and the parties to a dispute carry on their dispute as if they had no obligations to anyone else. The second trend which I think is of concern and which ought to be looked at in connection with this debate is the growth in the size of trade unions and their involvement in a wider range of issues than purely industrial issues. For example, they have become involved in social, environmental and political issues. This has made it much less likely that a union can act with total membership agreement on every matter. Consequently solidarity often will be missing, particularly where unions engage in activity which goes beyond the purely industrial issues. So a need exists to protect individual rights. I refer to the rights of individuals to disagree with the actions which their union executive has determined the union should take. 
The Medibank strike last year was a prime example of that. I raised in the House the case of employees at the Ringwood Post Office who were victimised by their union for turning up for work on the day of the Medibank strike. Those employees took the attitude that it was not an appropriate issue for them to strike on and they wished to turn up for work to exercise their right to work. As far as they were concerned, it was not an industrial issue, on which they would have been quite happy to strike; it was something else which should not have involved them in industrial action. Their union, the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, sought to fine them $20 each for taking that action. Because the matter was raised in this House and because substantial action was taken by more moderate elements in the union to withdraw that discriminatory action, eventually the Union backed away and did not impose any fines. But it certainly tried to do so. This points up the fact that, because of the size of unions and their involvement in an increasing range of non-industrial areas, individual rights can be in jeopardy and they need further protection than is provided under existing legislation. 
Because of the agreement with the trade unions which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has reached on behalf of the Government, the Government will proceed with the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau but will defer consideration of other aspects of the legislation as introduced some weeks ago. 
Firstly, let me compliment the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions for recognising the Government's determination to legislate in this area and therefore dropping his previous blanket opposition to the legislation. Apparently, that is a development which the Opposition in this House has not quite caught up with. Honourable members opposite have not yet caught up with the fact that the trade union movement has dropped its blanket opposition to the legislation. Also,  Mr Hawke  is to be complimented for offering a compromise which had a reasonable prospect of being acceptable to the Government and which the Government therefore could act upon. As I mentioned earlier, in this respect he clearly acted more as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions than as  President  of the Australian Labor Party. 
Secondly, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations ought to be complimented for acting on the offer made to him by  Mr Hawke  on behalf of the trade union movement and thereby securing 2 key elements of the Government's industrial relations policy with substantial union agreement. I refer, of course, to the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau and the setting up of the National Labour Consultative Council. The policy of the Government Parties has always been that we should reestablish what formerly was called the National Labour Advisory Council on a statutory basis and ensure that it plays a responsible and regular role in tripartite consultations between the Government, the trade union movement and the employer organisations. Because of the agreement between the trade union movement and the Government, 2 key elements of the Government 's industrial relations policy will be implemented with substantial union agreement. 
The Minister has already outlined, in the statement he made to the House by leave earlier today, the powers of the Industrial Relations Bureau. I want to comment on one point that was made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. He alleged, as I understood him, that, because the Government is setting up the Bureau as an independent statutory body under the control of a director, this implies some breaking of the agreement with the trade union movement. That seems to be an incredible statement. It was always known that the purpose of setting up the Industrial Relations Bureau was to create an independent body with certain statutory functions of its own and with a statutory head who had certain responsibilities to carry out. That was the whole thrust and purpose of the Industrial 
Relations Bureau. So it is a remarkable proposition to me for the Opposition to claim in some strange twist of logic that for the Government to proceed with that, following the agreement with the trade union movement, represents a change in the Government's agreement with the trade union movement. But, having in mind the impossible position in which the Opposition finds itself in respect of this legislation at present, I suppose it is not remarkable that the honourable member for Gellibrand should make that statement. 
I want to comment on a couple of aspects of the legislation which are to be deferred and which I believe the Government should proceed with in the longer term. Obviously, they would require more consideration in the light of representations made by employers and by the trade union movement. I am concerned that the Government must legislate in the area of individual rights. I have already outlined one area in which I believe individual rights demonstrably have been curtailed. Individuals have been disadvantaged by the way in which some trade unions have used their powers irresponsibly. 
I believe that in that respect the Government is committed eventually to ensuring that, if employees want to exercise their right to work in accordance with their award or determination, they should be protected in their efforts to do so. I am not talking about bringing in strike breakers to carry out work that they normally would not carry out. I am talking about people who are employed in an enterprise and who want to continue to carry out the work for which they have been employed according to the terms of their award or determination. There is a right to strike in this country. I would not deny that; no one in this House would deny that. But surely also there is the right to work and that ought to be given equal prominence and equal protection at the very least with the right to strike. I think that in the eyes of the public and the broad range of trade unionists in this country the Government is obligated to legislate in that area. 
One area that does need a great deal of consideration involves the matter of consequencesthat was the word used by the Minister in his second reading speech- and I would like to point to one aspect of a statement made by the ACTU on 1 1 May which raises some prospect that agreement can be reached on the proposition that where industrial organisations indulge in lawless activities there ought to be consequences for that activity. There ought to be ways of ensuring that industrial organisations do adhere to the law which ought to bind everyone. In the statement released by the  President  of the ACTU on 1 1 May he said, referring to the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act: 
This existing legislation contains a range or 'pains and penalties' provisions. It is known that some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian trade union movement. What we therefore put now does not imply into the future a change of our policy in that respect. However, that is not the current issue. 
The significant point here is in the words 'some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian trade union movement'. I believe that this introduces an element of flexibility into what has been presented in the past as the trade union attitude to penalties and it ought to be explored further. I hope that in the discussions which are now to ensue in the National Labour Consultative Council on the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the provisions of the Bill before the House, which are to be deferred for later consideration, the Minister will take up that point. I think it is a very significant note of flexibility in trade union attitudes which could indicate that in this vexed area of penalties, which has caused a great deal of conflict and ill feeling in the past, there is the possibility of reaching agreement with the trade union movement on the type of penalties which ought to be in our industrial relations legislation and which ought to be enforced against industrial organisations, of both employees and employers, which break industrial laws. So I commend to the Minister that he take up that point very vigorously. 
I am pleased to see the agreement that has been reached between the Government and the trade union movement. All Australians who were concerned to ensure that there was a development in our industrial legislation to provide for the assertion of the public interest and the protection of individual rights, and who wanted to see that achieved without massive industrial dislocation, will be pleased with the agreement that has been reached and which the Government is bringing into this House today in the form of amendments to the legislation before us. The only people who can be displeased with it are the members of the Opposition who effectively have nothing to debate. 
-The House is debating matters relating to the mining and exporting of uranium. I do not want to deal specifically with many of the points that have been raised previously in this debate, but there is perhaps one point I noted that was mentioned earlier with which I should deal. In his address to the House earlier today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  attacked the Government for having announced a safeguards policy. He said that to announce a safeguards policy before the release of the second Fox report is to prejudge the issue. By saying that, he was also by implication attacking his own Leader who announced a safeguards policy on 29 March in this House on behalf of the Australian Labor Party in respect of the export of uranium. The Leader of the Opposition, when he announced that policy, then went on to berate the Government for not having announced a safeguards policy. It seems therefore that it is a case of an each way bet for the Opposition. If we do not have a safeguards policy, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  attacks us for being behind the Opposition and for not being concerned about safeguards. If we do have a safeguards policy, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition attacks us for prejudging the issue. 
I have been following the uranium debate with some interest. I have studied the first report of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry and now I am studying the second report with some interest. It is interesting to read the 2 reports in view of many of the public statements by the protagonists and opponents of uranium mining. It is interesting to note that in many of the statements made urging a 5-year moritorium the proposition is put that a 5-year moritorium was recommended by the Fox inquiry. But, in fact, the Fox inquiry has studiously avoided making any recommendation one way or another in that respect. I shall refer to page 1 8 1 of the first Fox report where it deals with the matter of whether there should be some delay or postponement in supply of uranium to other countries. The report states: 
Because the evidence from which each line of argument is derived remains conjectural and also for reasons stated earlier when discussing the proliferation problem, we have not found a compelling basis for a conclusion on the question whether it is preferable to delay coming to a decision about mining for a period of several years or  alteratively  to proceed with carefully planned development of the industry. What we do conclude is that at present Australia should not commit itself to withholding for all time its uranium supplies, and that it should take the course which is determined to be the most effective and most practical in order to bring a favourable response from other states in relation to the proliferation problem. 
I find that many people who have listened to a number of the arguments put by protagonists in the debate are under the impression that the Fox inquiry has clearly recommended a moritorium for a certain number of years. As that quotation shows, that is not so. 
Some rather irresponsible assertions have been made also about nuclear power stations exploding or the possibility of their exploding. Those assertions cannot be justified. On the other hand, I have also objected to a number of the statements that have been made in support of uranium mining and export. Those arguments have been along the lines of let us dig up all that we can and flog it off for the money that is available, or have been along the lines that if we do not export uranium some other countries will come and get it. I think those sorts of statements also are irresponsible and avoid the very real and concerning issues which we ought to be facing. It is interesting to read the Fox report to get some perspective on many of the real problems that exist. However, the Fox report has a number of inadequacies and I shall point to some of them. The Fox report tried to cover so many issues that in many areas the commission was unable to make very clear decisions and recommendations. Simply because it did not have enough evidence on which to base any sort of conclusion, the commission would make some sort of wishy washy statement that really did not give any guidance one way or the other. Indeed, I think there are a few inaccuracies here and there. 
In this House on 26 April I directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  a question about the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter. This aspect is referred to on page 104 of the first Fox report. The Fox report stated that Australia had not become a party to the Convention and I asked the Minister during question time whether that was so. The reply was that Australia has signed the Convention. Of course, before a country can ratify a convention it has to go through a process of ensuring that the legislation on that subject- in Australia's case it means both Federal and State legislation- is in conformity with the convention and that the necessary administrative processes are in existence to carry out the terms of the convention. It was apparent from the Minister's answer that Australia is proceeding to ratify the Convention by getting all the administrative processes under way. So it is not quite clear what the Fox report means when it says that Australia has not become a party to the Convention. 
One other respect in which I think the Fox report was most inadequate was Japan's position in the nuclear power generating area. On page 52 of the first Fox report there was a half page which purported to summarise Japan's situation. I shall read just one small extract from that summary of Japan's situation which I believe is most inadequate. That part of the report reads: 
Replacement of part of Japan's proposed nuclear expansion program with an amplified coal-fired power station program, combined with greater emphasis on energy conservation, appears feasible. But the extent to which this could be achieved, or would be acceptable to Japan itself, cannot be assessed from the evidence. Base-load electricity generated by stations fuelled with imported coal would probably be more expensive than that provided by nuclear stations in many cases. However, the evidence indicates that the average capacity factor of some existing nuclear stations in Japan has been low, so the cost of electricity produced by them may be relatively high. 
For what is supposedly an expert report I suggest that that passage is so qualified by 'maybe 's' and could be's' that all that the Fox report is saying is: 'We really do not know what the Japanese situation is'. In January I was in Japan with a number of honourable members and senators and while there we took the opportunity of visiting the Tokai 1 power station which is situated about 70 kilometres from Tokyo. The Tokai 1 power station is the first commercial nuclear power generating station which Japan has established. It is not the only station; there have been many since then. The Tokai 1 power station was established in 1966 and has been feeding electricity into the Tokyo power grid ever since. Next door to the Tokai 1 station is the Tokai 2 station which will be commissioned later this year. It is a much larger and more modern power station. Nuclear power is seen by the Japanese as an energy source which will lessen her reliance on bulky fossil fuel. Of course, Japan is very sensitive to the reliability and regularity of supply of basic raw materials, particularly materials which can provide her with energy. Oil and coal must be imported in large quantities, and they create a further problem of stockpiling in a country with limited space. Thus the Japanese are attracted by the ease with which a year's supply of, say, nuclear fuel can be stored, providing a buffer against short term disruption of supply caused by regional conflicts and industrial boycotts. 
Japan has not yet recovered from the shock of the international oil crisis in 1973 when the action by oil producing countries brought Japan and some other oil importing countries almost to their knees. Another factor which the Japanese see as compelling them towards the development of nuclear power is the problem of atmospheric pollution in their overcrowded cities. The Government in Japan has a very active policy of discouraging industries which rely for their source of energy on coal and oil fired furnaces. Hydro-electric power developments are seen to offer little scope for meeting Japan's expanding energy requirements because Japan has used up most of the hydro-electric capacity in the country. Japan already has 13 nuclear power generating units in operation with a total output of 7428 megawatts. Presently under construction are a further 1 1 units and 4 more are being planned. Japan expects to be providing about 20 per cent of her electricity requirements from nuclear sources by the time the present construction program is completed in 1983. So for Japan there is no debate about whether to go nuclear- she already has. The main debate centres on methods and rates of progress and the siting of nuclear reactors. In that respect the debate on nuclear power in Japan is probably like the freeway debate in Australia. Everyone is in favour of freeways, but if people are asked whether they would like a freeway through their locality just a few yards away they would be against it. Public opinion polls in Japan indicate that there is a similar attitude to the development of nuclear power stations. 
I believe that in the case of Japan and, from what I understand, a number of other countries, they already have made a very clear decision that the development of nuclear energy is in their interests. Japan would say quite categorically that it is necessary for her own independence from the disruption that can be caused to sources of overseas supply of raw materials for her to have a nuclear generating capacity to supply a reasonable proportion of her electricity requirements. So I believe that the situation facing Australia is this: Many countries have made the decision to go nuclear for their power generation requirements. If a decision by Australia not to supply uranium would halt nuclear developments throughout the world I would probably be in favour of a moratorium on mining and exporting in order to resolve existing problems. I am troubled by some of the long term problems that seem to exist in relation to the disposal of waste. That is something that still has to be resolved throughout the world. However, the situation we face is that Japan and other countries already have gone nuclear. Several countries less politically stable and responsible than Australia have uranium supplies or are searching for them. Japan has contracts for the supply of uranium from Canada and South Africa until 1985. We were told in Japan that Japan is assisting Mali in its search for uranium. So it is clear that a number of countries in areas of the world that are less stable than Australia's area, countries which face potential conflicts and do not have such strict scruples about the supply of uranium as Australia has, are very active in the mining and exporting of uranium. 
Also there is the development of fast breeder reactors which has been alluded to by a number of speakers in this debate. Fast breeder reactors produce more and more plutonium. I believe that Australia's most constructive role is to become known as a responsible and reliable supplier of uranium to countries prepared to observe strict international safeguards. We should play a vigorous role in making those safeguards as effective as possible. This is the real option facing us, not the option of taking a high moral stand by not mining and exporting our uranium and hoping that, in some respect, that will prevent the rest of the world going nuclear. It will not. 
I am sure that all members of this House have been very pleased to see the two economic shadows of the Opposition speaking together on the one subject. We can only assume that the tactic being adopted by the Opposition is to put the two of them together so that we can assess them as to their merits as spokesmen for the Opposition on the economy. I think that we on this side of the House can say with confidence that they both have come equal last in that respect. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  mentioned earlier today that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  did not get around to making any constructive suggestions in his comments until the last minute or so of his speech and that he then did not have time to develop them. I would have to say in respect of the speech by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that he did not get around to making any constructive suggestions in the course of his entire speech. It was entirely negative. He did not try to make any positive suggestions whatsoever. We can understand his position. 
The fundamental cause of the unemployment situation is the rate of inflation. It is this inflation which has made Australia uncompetitive in world markets. This inflation was fired by the spendthrift policies of the former Labor Government, which in turn led to unrealistic expectation in many parts of the Australian community, including the wage earning community. This Government has been seeking to bring down the rate of inflation, which is the major cause of unemployment. We can understand the embarrassment of the honourable member for Oxley. In the last Budget brought down by the Labor Government he gave some acknowledgment to the fact that inflation was the major cause of the country's problems and that his predecessors as Labor Treasurers had made a great contribution to the creation of those very problems. 
What is the situation in respect of inflation in this country? We are bringing it under control. Admittedly we are doing so with great difficulty but it is being done. In the context of inflationary pressures within our country the most direct cause of unemployment in Australia at the present time is excessive wage increases. Ultimately, in economic terms, labour is a commodity, and like any other commodity it is subject to the laws of supply and demand. I appreciate that there are many other aspects of labour; it is not just to be regarded as a commodity. But when we look at the provision of jobs in our community, in our work places and in the economy as a whole we must look at the price that it raises in the economy. Increase the price of labour and, other things being equal, the demand for it will fall, because buyers either turn to substitutes or just buy less. 
For most of the post-war period the condition of high employment was associated with a generally buoyant demand for goods and services. In such a situation employers were usually able to pass on wage increases in the form of higher prices for the goods and services they produced. The current environment of higher unemployment, however, is associated with a generally slack demand for goods and services and highly competetive selling conditions. In such circumstances the average employer is no longer able to pass on wage costs as readily as in the past. Consequently, in order to preserve profits, or to avoid losses, he finds himself compelled to cut wage costs by reducing his overall demand for labour. In this respect a recent survey conducted by the Australian Chambers of Commerce and the National Bank reveals that 38 per cent of the respondent firms had reduced their employment as a result of recent wage indexation decisions. 
Let me outline some measures that this Government has introduced in order to reduce unemployment, or to reduce the effects of unemployment on various groups of people. There has been the up-grading of the Commonwealth Employment Service which presently costs about $50m a year to operate. Even in 1 976-77 the Service placed 467,000 people in employment. There has also been the expansion of the National Employment and Training scheme which will have a budget of more than $54m for 1 977-78. In the last financial year this scheme assisted 40,000 people. One important point to make concerns the changes that this Government has made to the NEAT scheme. Previously the NEAT scheme was training a number of people in courses which eventually could produce qualifications which were not in demand in the labour market. People were undergoing long tertiary courses in areas of high unemployment. The emphasis that this Government has introduced in the NEAT scheme is to have people undergo shorter courses with relevant onthejob training which fits people for jobs that exist in real companies in the economy. 
A further development by this Government has been the introduction of the Special Youth Employment Training program. At the end of June 1977, 7,500 young persons were in training under this program. The expansion of this very effective scheme has, of course, been announced in the context of the present Budget. That expansion will involve increasing the eligibility of people for subsidy under the scheme up to the age of 25 years. I also mention the education program for unemployed youth which is expected to absorb more than 550 young people in 1 977-78. 
Further, there has been increased assistance for apprenticeship training. Apprenticeship intakes rose by 9 per cent in 1976-77. In addition, the Relocation Assistance scheme has relocated to permanent employment 400 people since its introduction. Finally, the Community Youth Support scheme has supported more than 200 programs involving about 20,000 young people. 
Also in the context of the present Budget the Government has said that there will be no firm restriction on the payment of funds for any training programs. Therefore, there is a degree of flexibility in the forthcoming financial year in terms of the expansion of training programs. As I mentioned earlier, employers have been replacing labour or just plain getting rid of it. Employers can reduce their demand for labour in any or all of five different ways. They can do this, firstly, by the introduction of labour-saving machinery and procedures; secondly, by switching from the employment of full time workers to the employment of part time workers; thirdly, by not hiring new employees and meeting short-run increases in demand through increased overtime; fourthly, by the non-replacement of wastage of workers; and, fifthly, by retrenchments from their existing labour force. As I have indicated, surveys have shown that employers are doing all of those things. 
I conclude my speech by reminding the House that the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Oxley said that they would present constructive views. Neither did. Neither was constructive; they were most destructive. They made no attempt to introduce any constructive element into their speeches. They ignored their own disastrous mismanagement of the Australian economy which produced the very problems which this Government has been grappling with and gradually overcoming. 
-The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in his rather tendentious speech said that Government back benchers are being asked to put their heads into the noose without knowing what is in the nosebag. We know what is in the nosebag. It is the interests of the community mixed with an overwhelming measure of public support. The honourable member for Hindmarsh made a number of trivial points. He tried to say that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was being asked to act as some sort of toady for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in introducing this legislation instead of the Prime Minister. I remind him that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is also officially the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. It is the normal procedure for Ministers assisting other senior Ministers to take on various aspects of legislation in this chamber. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh also tried to make it appear that under the proposed legislation the Minister would have power to sack any employee for almost any reason whatsoever. Of course that is not so. If a Commonwealth employee is carrying out the normal duties for which he has been engaged, no Minister can act against him under this legislation. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  in an earlier speech, said that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations spoke very briefly in introducing the Bill and criticised him for speaking so briefly. I suggest that the Minister spoke briefly because the need for this legislation is obvious to the community and can be encapsulated in a few words. 
I intend to make a few points on my own behalf. The honourable member for Hindmarsh alleged that the Government was attempting to bring on a confrontation with the unions. I suggest that some Commonwealth employees have been attempting to bring on a confrontation with the community. In that sort of confrontation the Government has a duty and an obligation to take the side of the community. The community is fed up with disruption in vital services. I quote from the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The feature that distinguishes Government employees is their responsibility for providing the wide range of services essential to the well-being of a modern day community. 
Strikes, bans and go-slows affect private industry and also the community generally. Strikes, bans and go-slows in the Public Service cause disruption throughout the community. The worst feature is not necessarily the straightforward strike when people do not turn up for work and do not perform their duties: a worse feature is the farce of people turning up for work and then refusing to carry out normal instructions to undertake normal work by the use of go-slow tactics, limitations on the type of work to be undertaken or restrictions on the people to be provided with the normal services of government. 
Under these circumstances private employers have the simple ability to sack employees who do not carry out instructions. This legislation does not even go that far. It gives the Commonwealth powers to ensure that government services are provided in the way that the community expects. It fills a gap in the powers presently available to the Government to carry out its policies. We also face from time to time the farce of Commonwealth employees threatening to refuse to carry out policies of the government of the day. Those particular people say they do not agree with those policies. They are employed to carry out the policies of the government of the day in the service of the community. If they do not like those policies they can resign from the Service. They can seek a transfer or, ultimately, they can exercise their right to seek to defeat the government through the normal processes of the ballot box. They are not entitled to continually frustrate the normal services of government to the community by go-slows, bans and limitations on work. This Bill recognises that government employees have responsibilities to the community and to the government of the day. 
I also underline something else which the Minister said in his second reading speech. He said: 
If Government employees do not, or are not able because of the actions of others, to fulfil these responsibilities the effect reaches into the very fabric of our society. 
This Bill is needed to fill a major gap in the powers of the Commonwealth to ensure that the normal services of government are supplied to the community. The Bill deserves the support of the House and of the community. 
I rise to support the Government's decisions concerning the mining and export of uranium and to oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This matter is of great interest and concern to many people in my electorate. A large number of people have written to me and a number of people have come to speak to me about the issue. I have appreciated all the expressions of concern and the viewpoints that have been put to me. 
Very early in the public debate that has been proceeding for some time I resolved that I would not come to a final veiw on the subject until after the presentation of the two Fox reports by the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and after I had had the opportunity of assessing some developments overseas. Accordingly, on 2 June this year when this House was debating the nuclear safeguards policy which had been announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I made a speech in which I outlined some of the conclusions to which I had come. Let me quote one sentence of what I said on that occasion. I said: 
If a decision by Australia not to supply uranium would halt nuclear developments throughout the world i would probably be in favour of a moratorium on mining and exporting in order to resolve existing problems. 
I referred in particular to the problems of the long term disposal of wastes. I then went on to say that we had to make a decision in Australia on the basis of a factual situation. Many countries already have gone nuclear in their power generation programs. Many countries less stable and with fewer scruples than Australia are already mining and exporting uranium. I was interested, therefore, in the oft-quoted letter which  Sir MacFarlane  Burnet wrote to the Melbourne  Age,  in which he indicated, if I might say so with respect, a development of ideas similar to mine. He said: 
As a biologist I should have preferred that there had never been developed the military and industrial exploitation of nuclear power. 
I certainly agree with that. I think every honourable member in this House would agree with it. He went on to state: 
I believe that a majority of thoughtful people accept the inevitability for at least an interim period, of large scale use of nuclear energy in most parts of the world. 
Things being as they are, nuclear power generators will be needed for the next twenty, or perhaps fifty, years in most of the developed countries, with Japan and Sweden in particular need. 
I was interested to note that  Sir MacFarlane  Burnet mentioned Japan first when referring to those two countries. 
I visited Japan in January. I was with a group of members from both the Senate and the House of Representatives who went to Japan to look at questions of trade, industrial relations and energy policy, amongst other things. I understand that Japan is in a situation similar to that faced by a number of other countries, to a greater or lesser degree. They are countries which have made a decision to develop a nuclear power generating program on grounds that are not necessarily relevant to Australian minds but are very relevant to the circumstances faced by those countries. 
Let me outline two factors which were obviously very influential in the decisions which Japan has made over a number of years to develop a significant capacity to generate electricity from nuclear power generators. Firstly, there is Japan's dependence on overseas supplies of raw materials and energy. One of the things that strikes one very strongly when speaking to Japanese officials- people in government circles, in the bureaucracy and in industry, either at management or union level- is the great sensitivity that Japan has towards her dependence on overseas sources of supply. 
Wherever we went and talked about energy policy they kept referring to the 'oil shock' of 1973- the decision by the Arab oil exporting nations to hold up supplies of oil and then to raise the price. The 'price hike', as they call it in Japan, certainly is something that has been imprinted indelibly on Japanese minds. When talking to them about industrial relations we learned that they were acutely sensitive to Australia's industrial relations problems because of their dependence on Australia for many of their basic raw materials. That affected iron ore and other products, including, of course, coal and other products supplied from other countries around the world. Australia, as an energy rich country, as a resources rich country, cannot quite understand the attitude of mind of the people of a country such as Japan which is highly dependent on overseas supplies of raw material and energy. So Japan is very sensitive to the need to ensure the proper supplies she needs to keep the wheels of industry turning and to light and heat the homes of her people. 
One of the problems, therefore, that Japan faces with fossil fuels- with oil and with coal- is that those fuels are very bulky. They are very bulky to transport. It is difficult to stockpile large quantities of those fuels so that Japan can protect itself against the short term disruption to supply which might occur as the result of wars in various regions of the world or simply as the result of industrial disputation on the wharves of exporting countries. Therefore one of the attractions of nuclear energy to Japan is that she can stockpile or store quantities of uranium very readily. In terms of its size and compactness, it is a very efficient sort of fuel for Japan to stockpile in advance so that it does not suffer from the short term disruptions to supply which might occur as the result of war or industrial dispute. 
That is clearly one advantage of nuclear energy to Japan. Therefore it is Japan's resolve to develop a significant proportion of her electricity power generating capacity from nuclear sources. Japan believes that if she has some part of that capacity supplied from nuclear sources, some from furnaces fuelled by fossil fuels and some from hydro-electric power, and then tries to diversify the sources of supply of uranium and of the fossil fuels as far as possible she will have provided the greatest possible guarantee against disruption to the sources of supply of any one of those fuels from any one part of the world. So clearly the generation of power from nuclear sources is an important part of Japan's policy to remain self-reliant and to insulate herself from troubles in the rest of the world. 
A second reason for Japan favouring a nuclear power generation program is an environmental one. In Australia when we talk about the environmental problem as it relates to uranium mining and export we think in terms of the waste disposal problem. Australian minds concentrate on that problem. Japan has an enormous air pollution problem. In the context of that problem it sees nuclear power generation as offering a great advantage because furnaces which are fuelled by fossil fuels- by oil and by coal- have the disadvantage of adding enormously to the air pollution problem, an enormous problem in a small country geographically, such as Japan is, with such a huge population. Therefore the Japanese see the development of nuclear energy as contributing to the solution of her air pollution problems. Certainly when you talk to anyone in Japan involved in planning and in the sort of urban problems that the Japanese face, this matter of air pollution is one that comes up time and again. 
Indeed, they find it difficult to understand that Australians are worried about air pollution problems in Australia. One of the Tokyo planning people whom we saw said that he visited Sydney on a number of occasions and that he could not quite understand why we in Australia debated the subject of air pollution, because in his view the air was delicious. That is the way in which he expressed it. He said that the air was delicious in Sydney. I do not know how many residents of Sydney would agree with that view. However, that certainly was a Japanese perspective on the problem. The Japanese Government has a very active policy of discouraging industries which rely for their energy on oil or coal fired furnaces. 
So Japan is a very good example of a country which has made a decision to go nuclear in her power generation program for reasons which are very good to that country. Therefore Australia must face the question not of what Australia thinks ought to be the right decision in terms of the sorts of priorities that Australia has but what is our responsibility to the rest of the world in which many countries are energy deficient. We are in the fortunate position of having an energy surplus and, indeed, of having vast supplies of many resources which would be of use to many countries around the world. 
What is the Labor Party policy which has been espoused in this debate? It really is a little difficult to discern it because, as I understand the resolution of the Labor Party Federal Conference, it resolved to have an indefinite moratorium on the mining and exporting of uranium. But then that resolution was slightly qualified by some people who chose to put a certain interpretation on it after the conference. Indeed, it was possibly on the final day of the conference that they said: 'Yes, but we have a conference every two years. Therefore it is not really an indefinite moratorium; it will be for only two years, until we review it in two years' time'. Of course, we know the attitude that the  President  of the Labor Party and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  took on this question. He was subsequently threatened with disciplinary action by the Victorian branch of the ALP if he did not toe the line. 
I think all honourable members on this side of the House admire the sorts of comments that have been made by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in a number of speeches that he has made over a period of months on the energy question and in the nuclear debate. He acknowledges the energy needs of the world and Australia 's responsibility in that context. 
So I come back to the question: What is the real moral choice facing Australia? I suggest that the choice we face is not the choice between stopping nuclear developments or encouraging them by mining and exporting our uranium. That is the simplistic way in which it is often put. I suggest that what we are really faced with is a choice between allowing nuclear developments to occur in an unsatisfactory way, as they are occurring at present throughout the world, or of using our position as a responsible supplier of energy resources to bring about greater stability, greater certainty and greater responsibility in nuclear developments throughout the world. 
I believe that the statements made by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and a number of other Ministers outlining Australia's decision indicates the depth of thought that the Government has given to this question and the responsible attitude which the Government has taken in resolving a number of the very real problems. The decisions which the Government had made have been made after a long period of consideration. Since this Government has been in office there has been effectively an almost two-year moratorium on a decision as the Government looked at all the facts and came to its view. I commend the Government on the very realistic and highly moral statements which were made in this House a couple of weeks ago. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I remind him of the significance of item 6469 in the Medical Benefits Schedule which enables payment to be made for abortions. Is he aware of the very real conscientious objection that many people have to contributing towards payment for abortions through health funds? Can he say whether he has taken any action to resolve this situation and to provide relief for the people concerned? 
-This is a Budget of economic realism, expenditure restraint, taxation reform and human concern. It is a Budget of economic realism because it offers prospects of a further reduction in the rate of inflation and some real economic growth for the second year in a row. It offers the prospect of an increase in employment of 2 per cent leading to some reduction in unemployment. It offers the prospect of an increase in business investment spending and a gradual reduction in interest rates. I was interested to read recently an economic forecast by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd, management consultants, a forecast published shortly after the Budget and delivered by J. B. Donovan, the company's chief economist, at W.D.Scott scott economic forecasting conferences held during August. The forecast states: 
 It is feasible to predict a great deal about the upper and lower limits to the rate of inflation through the rest of 1977 and 1978. This is because the future for several of the factors that influence inflation is already fairly well charted, viz., after the effects of the November 1976 devaluation (net) are fully absorbed in the annual rate figures, it can be expected that inflation of import and export prices will settle in the 6 per cent to 7 per cent p.a. range through 1978 (OECD and WDS estimates); from the announcements in the 1977-78 budget, including the little heeded proviso that the 8 per cent to 10 per cent channel of money supply growth will be flexible if necessary, it appears that the behaviour of the monetary aggregates will be consistent with a falling rate of inflation. as the Budget deficit is lower this financial year than last, the governments new borrowing program is less, the need for official maintenance of our high interest rates is vastly weakened and interest rates should be fallingsomewhat. 
It concludes: 
In respect of their influence, export and import prices, the money supply and interest rates bold the prospect of reduction in the inflation rate. 
This assessment agrees that expenditure restraint is important in defeating inflation. Whilst it is superficially attractive to believe that we can spend our way out of trouble, as honourable members opposite believe and as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  just seemed to suggest, the bill has to be paid by someone at some time. That bill is paid by the inexorable cycle of rising inflation, rising taxation and rising unemployment, as happened during the Whitiam years. 
I mentioned earlier that this was a Budget of taxation reform. The new standard rate taxation system means that 90 per cent of taxpayers will be on a standard rate of marginal tax of 32c for every extra dollar earned. Steeply increasing rates of marginal tax have been a disincentive not only to the high income earners but also to the average wage earner wanting to earn extra overtime as well as to the small businessman wanting to take additional risks for the prospect of additional reward. 
The Government's tax reforms are laudable but there is one high priority area which must be given attention in the next stage of taxation reform. I refer to the relative disadvantage of the single income family where one parent works and the other looks after the home and the family. Where many families now have two bread winners the single income family feels under great pressure to bring a second income into the family to maintain a comparable standard of living. I am not objecting to both parents working nor am I wishing to justify the hoary old statement that a woman's place is in the home. What I am saying is that there ought to be a genuine choice about whether both parents work or only one works. 
Whilst the two income family contributes to increased national productivity it also adds to the community costs in some important respects. The absence of both parents from the home leads to increased demands for child care facilities and welfare services which are provided as a matter of course in the traditional one income family. I am finding increased concern in my electorate that present taxation and family allowance provisions do not give significant acknowledgement of the social and economic role performed by the full-time home maker. The family allowance system introduced last year was a significant social reform but many of the social welfare activists in our community have not given sufficient credit to the Government for that reform. 
It put additional funds into the hands of large low income families where the help was most needed, but in a period of inflation when prices and wages are still rising, when taxes are subject to indexation and social security pensions are indexed, the relative values of those family allowances declines. Quite apart from dealing with this problem of the declining value of family allowances, the Government- indeed, the whole Parliament- should consider ways of correcting the relative disadvantage of the single income family. It could be done by a variety of taxation mechanisms or by the provision of an allowance for a full-time home maker added to the present family allowance system. I would like to see greater debate on such alternative proposals. 
There is one vital area which this Budget has given support to the family under stress. It reflects the human concern expressed in the Budget for high priority areas of need. I refer to the extension of the handicapped child's allowance. The Government is conscious of the additional costs that can be incurred in caring for a handicapped child at home. At present low income families may not be eligible for the handicapped child's allowance because their child does not satisfy the medical criteria for a severely handicapped child. This can lead to particular hardship. The Government in this Budget has now decided to extend eligibility for the handicapped child's allowance. The DirectorGeneral of Social Services, at his discretion, will be able to grant a handicapped child's allowance of up to $15 a week to a person on low income who has the custody, care and control of a substantially handicapped child who at present does not fully meet the medical criteria. 
I wish to turn now to a matter of vital importance to the export industries of Australia, particularly our primary industries. Australia has developed as a great trading nation and anything which damages the performance of our export industries damages the ability of our economy to recover fully. A number of union bans and boycotts are preventing the shipment of many Australian export cargoes and are resulting in the loss of vital export markets. In a period when many Australian industries have become uncompetitive in world markets because of our inflationary cost pressures of the Whitlam years, it is a tragedy that export industries which are well able to compete internationally are being hampered by capricious and often politically motivated industrial action. Some bans on exports and the servicing of overseas vessels are based on ideological objections to the political complexion of overseas governments or to actions that those governments have taken. Other bans are used to support restrictive work practices by Australian unions. 
A prime example of the first type of ban- one based on ideological objections to another government- is the ban on cargo bound for Chile. Due to a ban by the Waterside Workers Federation imposed in 1974 on exports to Chile, cargo cannot be marked or manifested through for Chile. Consequently there have been no wheat shipments from Australia to Chile since August 1974. The Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and maritime unions have imposed these bans in protest against the political complexion of the Chilean Government and its policies. There is not even the slightest pretence that these bans are related to any genuine industrial issue. 
In 1974 the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive endorsed the bans. However, following approaches by the Australian Wheat Board and Chilean interests, in February of this year the ACTU resolved to recommend that Australian maritime and waterfront unions lift the bans on the Chilean wheat trade. The unions concerned refused to accept that recommendation and have continued the bans. I hope that the Opposition will support my condemnation of this blatantly political use of industrial action. It is plain industrial blackmail. The correct position was stated succinctly by the former Munster for Agriculture in the Labor Government,  Senator Wriedt,  when he said in respect of these bans. 
It is a matter for the government of the day to make a judgment as to whether Australia continues to trade with a country, and on what basis. I do not think it is the role of any group in the community to make decisions of the nature of this loading ban. 
Another example of a politically motivated boycott is the ACTU ban on the handling of Indonesian flag vessels. These bans were imposed in protest against alleged Indonesian atrocities in East Timor. At the time the bans were imposed no Indonesian flag vessels existed. I am informed that since early this year some Indonesian flag vessels designed for the wheat trade have been launched. I am further informed that the specification of the ships is such as would meet the exacting requirements of Australian maritime unions. Now Australian unions are to black ban those vessels. In 1 976 Indonesia took 6 per cent of Australia's exports of wheat and flour. The market is seen as one with even greater potential in the future. That market is now in jeopardy. I am not arguing the merits or demerits of the Government of the country concerned. I abhor the reported actions of the Indonesian Government in East Timor. But if we ban exports because we do not like a particular government's political colour or actions, then we will not be doing very much trade with many other countries at all. 
I move onto the other type of ban I have mentioned, that is, action designed to support restrictive and protective practices by certain unions. For example, I mentioned the bans and demands placed on Utah Mining Australia Ltd by the Seamens Union of Australia to force coal to be carried in Australian flag ships with Australian crews. That demand may seem reasonable in many respects but jobs for Australians cannot be guaranteed when Australians price themselves out of world markets. International comparisons show that employing Australian seamen is vastly more expensive than employing seamen from other countries. In making comparisons I refer to the developed countries, not just the low wage countries. 
At present the annual cost to an Australian shipowner of employing an Australian able seaman is about $23,000 which is more than 200 per cent higher than the cost to a British shipowner. An Australian seaman enjoys 6 weeks more leave per annum than his British counterpart. Furthermore, Australian costs are from 25 per cent to 50 per cent higher than crew costs in the United States of America, West Germany or Sweden. If seamen's demands were acceded to by Utah the freight rate would rise from $9 to $18 per tonne and would quite clearly place the company in an untenable position. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said recently, Utah is doing Australian farmers, miners, exporters and in fact the Australin people a great service in standing firm against the union's demands. The Seamen's Union has priced itself out of the market and however much we would like it, Australia cannot afford to employ Australian flag carriers in highly competitive industries such as the coal industry. We cannot penalise competitive export industries in order to protect groups which have developed artificially high cost structures. 
An even more extraordinary example of union action is the ban promoted by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union on the export of live sheep to the Middle East. That union even wrote letters to the Prime Ministers of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait in April this year threatening to ban the export of live sheep unless those countries took more sheep carcasses. What an arrogant, pompous mob of industrial blackmailers! I repeat that when  Senator Wriedt  was a Minister in the Australian Labor Party Government he stated: 
It is a matter for the Government of the day to make a judgment as to whether Australia continues to trade with a country, and on what basis. 
I suggest that if a country is prepared to buy Australian goods or produce at a proper market price then Australia is hardly in a position to place costly conditions on the sale which are designed to force that country to pay for higher cost elements of our economy. Decisions about industry protection should be the subject of separate Government consideration, not an imposition by way of capricious action by a few union officials not answerable to the public. Action of this nature by a few Australian unions is damaging 
Australia's reputation as a stable, reliable supplier of basic commodities. What is at stake, therefore, is not merely the sales of the particular commodities I have mentioned. What is at stake is the future of our more competitive export industries and our international standing as a major trading nation. 
I believe that the Budget which has been brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  gives guidance to the country as to how we can continue to get ourselves out of the economic problems which were a result of socialist policies pursued by the previous Government. But apart from a Budget which was brought down by a Government, we must also have a community attitude which places an emphasis on personal incentive and on the sort of cost consciousness that we need to make ourselves competitive once again in world markets. 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations advise the House of the current state of the disputes involving bans on building projects in Victoria imposed by the Australian Builders Labourers Federation? 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. What action is the Government taking to support the Victorian State Government and the State Electricity Commission in the Latrobe Valley strike? 
-In commenting on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs I wish firstly to compliment the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on the manner in which he has handled his portfolio. From discussions with people involved in the land rights issue and from discussions with people in the Northern Territory, when I visited there recently to look at matters concerning Aboriginal affairs, I know that he is highly regarded for his consultative approach and his sensitive appreciation of the needs and aspirations of Aboriginal communities. In my remarks I shall comment on some aspects of Aboriginal affairs and the way in which Aboriginal affairs policies have been implemented by successive governments over the years. I shall not distinguish very greatly between particular governments because I believe that there has been some confusion in many aspects of the administration of Aboriginal affairs under various governments. 
Aboriginal policies in this country have gone through various stages. Many years ago we had a policy of assimilation. We rejected that because assimilation was too patronising an attitude for white people to take in Aboriginal affairs. Then integration was the thing. We were not to assimilate Aborigines into the white community; we were to integrate them. They were to keep their individuality but we were to assist then to cope in European society. Then we dropped the term 'integration' and adopted the term 'selfdevelopment'. That was the thing- self-development of Aboriginal communities. Now the term is '....ticulturism'. That expression is used quite a lot. I wonder how long it will be before another word is used which I learned at an ethnic function in Melbourne, that is polyethnicity. I am not sure whether that word will catch on. 
What I wish to point out is that in a relatively short number of years we have had changes in emphasis in our Aboriginal affairs policies which have undoubtedly led to some confusion amongst people who have to administer those policies at the ground level. Certainly I discovered that in talking to people in the Commonwealth Department of Education, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and other agencies in both Adelaide and Darwin. There are conflicting attitudes on Aboriginal affairs by well meaning people in my own area, in the southern parts of Australia. Often people will say: 'Why do we not let the Aboriginal people live their traditional life untroubled by white people?' Then they will go on to complain about the high rate of infant mortality amongst Aboriginal people and advocate that more trained medical personnel be sent in to improve the situation. They do not stop to appreciate that in sending in trained medical personnel, inevitably some aspects of the traditional Aboriginal society will be broken down because Aboriginals will be brought into contact with people with a different type of education and from a different type of culture. 
Would we really be prepared to see some of the traditional Aboriginal customs continued? Amongst some Aboriginal groups, for example, infanticide has been practised in the past. Infanticide was one way or controlling the population and the size of families. It was brought about by the fact that an older child of, say, 15 months or 16 months who was still breast feeding had a prior claim on the mother's breast and a younger child who came along died because it did not have a claim to the mother's breast. I shall read from a report prepared by Annette Hamilton of the Department of Anthropology of the University of Sydney in 1971. This was given to me by the Institute of Aboriginal Development in Alice Springs when I visited there. It says: 
Finally I feel it is necessary to note that there is a distinct possibility that many Aboriginal children who fail to thrive, or who die through failure to present for medical aid in time,  are suffering from deliberate neglect, which is the only form of infanticide available to the people today. The children most likely to suffer from this fall into several quite simple categories- those of the unmarried girl, those who are the product of a  tribally-wrong  marriage, especially one that is incestuous as the people see it, and those born too close to a sibling; these almost certainly died in the past since the older child has the unquestioned right to the mother's milk until it no longer needs it. 
That was a report into health problems among the Pitjantjatjara people. That indicates that arising from traditional Aboriginal life styles which have had the impact of Western science brought upon them there are a number of health problems. We cannot simply withdraw from the situation and let Aboriginal communities live a traditional life. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  noted in his speech a little earlier, only recently the last known traditional tribal Aborigines were brought from the desert into a community which has come under the influence of Western ways. 
Nonetheless, in the way in which we deliver health care to Aboriginal communities we must be sensitive to the needs of the traditional way of life. In some of our hospitals the use of traditional Western practices has often had disastrous effects on Aboriginal health. I was told in Alice Springs of examples of tribal women who were brought into hospitals for treatment. They were brought in when they had young babies still breast feeding. The women were taught how to prepare a bottle for the baby because it was inconvenient in the rigid system of the hospital to have the baby still breast feeding. Having weaned the baby and taught the mother how to prepare a bottle, the hospital then sent her back into the tribal situation after her own treatment had been finished and she was expected to maintain the feeding of her baby by the bottle method. Of course, the whole background of hygiene practices in a tribal situation did not suit that method. Naturally enough the babies developed all sorts of gastric complaints which led to their coming back into hospital only a matter of a week or two after they had been sent back into their tribal areas. 
The Commonwealth Director of Health in Darwin told me that the old practice which has only recently died out in our hospitals of putting an Aboriginal baby on to a bottle was virtually signing that baby's death warrant. It is good that we have got over that practice by and large. It is only in recent times that we have realised the problems we were creating for traditional Aboriginal communities. I am very pleased to see therefore that the Government in its Aboriginal health policies is trying to make use of traditional 
Aboriginal healers who can provide the sort of psychological back up needed to make sure that modern health procedures can work and can be implemented in the tribal situation. 
When we bring Aboriginal communities under the influence of a Western life style we produce a number of health problems which were not there before. Under the nomadic way of life no one stayed in one area long enough for that area to become filthy and unhygienic. The movement from camp site to camp site was in itself a hygienic procedure. When Aboriginals came under our influence and stayed in the one site or camp for years on end without having the training in modern hygiene procedures, those camps became areas where disease could fester very easily. I believe that what we have to do in our Aboriginal affairs policies is not just look at the total amount of money which is being spent. Quite often in the southern areas of Australia which do not have Aboriginal communities by and large, people look at the total amount being spent and measure Aboriginal affairs policies in those terms. We have to look at the way in which money is being spent, the way in which it is being applied and the sorts of patterns of development we are trying to encourage in Aboriginal communities. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
I was interested in the concluding words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  He said that it is about time the truth came out about mining at Mary Kathleen. We on this side of the House find it difficult to decide just who speaks for the Opposition on uranium mining policy. We can only regard the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition as being a not very thinly veiled attack on his own leader. In Brisbane last week it was reported in the  Courier Mail  that the Leader of the Opposition personally took credit for re-opening the Mary Kathleen mine and gave an assurance at Mount Isa that if the Labor Government came back into office the Mary Kathleen mine would be kept operating. How does that square with the statements by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that the Mary Kathleen mine is being kept open to assist the political purposes of the Fraser Government? All I can say is that the Leader of the Opposition must be working for the political purposes of the Fraser Government. He is welcome to join our side if he wants to come and renounce his past sins. 
I raise a grievance about the past extravagance of the Labor Government and the inconsistent way in which it is now nit-picking at the very small amounts of money being spent quite justifiably by this Government in comparison with the huge amounts spent extravagantly by the Labor Government. In three years the extravagant junketing of the Leader of the Opposition cost the Australian taxpayer $ 1.5m. This reckless use of public money included the use of special charter aircraft, repainted and refitted to suit the honourable gentleman's personal tastes. It included personal retinues of up to 42 people including, on one occasion, the driver of the Leader of the Opposition to act as his personal valet and servant One junket alone took place at a cost of around $ 1 4,000 a day. 
The aristocratic and expensive tastes of the Leader of the Opposition were brought to bear in Australia just as much as they were overseas. The honourable gentleman left his house in the western suburbs of Sydney and moved into Kirribilli House. Kirribilli House in Sydney was previously used as a place for Australia's international visitors of state. It was converted to the personal mansion of the then Prime Minister. In a period of two years it was occupied by him for 332 days, almost a full year. This was an outstanding record for a man who was meant to be running the country from Canberra. The Leader of the Opposition was, of course, the Prime Minister who purchased an imported luxury limousine. I personally do not object to the Prime Minister of Australia having a high status car, but I recall that when the Labor Government came to office some publicity was given to the fact that the honourable gentleman rejected the old Prime Ministerial Rolls Royce and went to a more modest Ministerial Ford LTD. This was publicised as being evidence of the Labor background of this PrIme Minister and his less extravagant approach to life, but shortly afterwards he arranged for the purchase of an imported luxury limousine. 

 His Government also holds the record for the greatest number of personal staff members ever seen in the history of this country and the greatest use of VIP aircraft since the establishment of the special Air Force squadron. I do not think there is any need for me to go into the details of the scandals associated with the overseas loans affair in order to demonstrate the absurdity of the present public advertising campaign being conducted by the Australian Labor Party. My only comment on that is to observe that funds for the campaign could well have come from the foreign interests with whom the Australian Labor Party, and the Leader of the Opposition in particular, have been making arrangements in recent years. I wonder whether another Iraqi breakfast was conducted? I also note the irony of the way in which the Australian Labor Party, in the recent advertisements authorised by one David Combe, accuses the Government of loose spending. David Combe was a prime mover in the Iraqi money affair- the loosest and most disreputable attempted financial transaction Australia has known 
Moreover, we know that the former Prime Minister spent without a care to have his portrait enshrined in all public offices throughout Australia. 
Surely this is the action of a vain and insensitive man. As my colleague, the honourable member for St George, notes, it was a terrible portrait anyway. Wherever possible, former Prime Ministers travelled by commercial airlines or made normal use of VIP flights. The Leader of the Opposition, when Prime Minister, chartered Qantas Airways Ltd jets at prodigious cost and forced the cancellation of the flights of hundreds of Australian citizens. Of course, he also authorised the use of a VIP aircraft by  Mrs Whitlam.  I do not complain about that, but it is hypocritical of him to come into this House and seek to attack the present Prime Minister for the use by  Mrs Fraser  of a VIP aircraft in perfectly understandable and open and explainable circumstances. 
The Whitlam regime saw the greatest proliferation of personal staff since the court of Nero. One might say that they fiddled while Australia burned but there were private secretaries, research officers, Press secretaries, media secretaries and even a few ordinary secretaries. 
I want to comment on an allegation made in the advertisements authorised by  Mr David  Combe concerning the redecoration of certain parts of the Lodge. These allegations are supposed to give an example of the extravagance of the present Prime Minister. I was interested to note that  Mr Andrew  Grimwade, the  Chairman  of the Committee on Official Establishments, yesterday released a statement repudiating those allegations. In this statement  Mr Grimwade  said: 
The implication in Labor Party advertising that the Prime Minister was personally responsible for expenditure on improvements at The Lodge in Canberra was an unjustified misrepresentation of the facts. 
The Committee on Official Establishments was set up by the Federal Government to advise on the operation and conservation of the four Official Establishments, including the Prime Minister's Lodge. It is an independent advisory body. The Committee has no political interests and its work is solely in the interests of the nation and of the Australian people. 
He goes on to say: 
It is disappointing to find the essential up-keep of official buildings being used in an attempt to damage the person who, by virtue of his office, happens to be occupying the premises. The recommendations for the work of the Lodge came from the Committee on Official Establishments and not from the Prime Minister. 
During its deliberations the Committee heard evidence from many people including the Leader of the Opposition, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam and  Mrs Whitlam.  From all the evidence gathered, no single objection was raised to the activities of the Committee nor to the proposals it was envisaging. Indeed, full support was given by everyone to the Committee. 
The next paragraph is most important as well.  Mr Grimwade  went on to say: 
It was completely unwarranted to infer that the Committee was involved in any 'loose spending'. The Committee had focused the Government's attention on the deplorable conditions in the service wing of The Lodge. The renovations have the full support of the Union involved and those working at The Lodge will benefit from the renovations rather than  Mr and Mrs Fraser. 
All capital and maintenance expenditure within the Official Establishments, including The Lodge, now comes within the oversight of the Committee. 
I suggest that that gives the lie to the sorts of criticisms that are being directed at the Prime Minister in respect of essential maintenance on official establishments. 
I am alarmed at statements reported to have been made by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  which clearly place him in contempt of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. On the front page of this morning's Adelaide  Advertiser,  in an article headlined ' "Bastards", says Hawke of Bench',  Mr Hawke  is quoted as making the following extraordinary statement about the members of the Full Bench of the Commission: 
The collective bloody salary of those pack of bastards who made the decision would be what . . . $30,000 average. 
The Melbourne  Age  was a little more restrained. That newspaper quoted him as saying: 
The collective bloody salary of these men who made the decision would be what . . . $30,000 at an average. 

 Mr Hawke 's uncouth language apparently made the  Age  sub-editor blanch. The phrase 'pack of bastards' was replaced by the word 'men . In the  Australian  this morning  Mr Hawke  is quoted as saying further: 
It is an absurd decision. It is an internally unintelligent decision. 
He is further quoted in that newspaper as saying: 
If I had been a man down there today I would have voted to continue the strike. 
So much for the great conciliator Hawke.  His  language and his attitude clearly stamp him as one of the bully boys in this dispute. Let me quote section 182 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which I believe  Mr Hawke  has breached by his statement. Section 1 82 of the Act provides: 
a person shall not- 
wilfully insult or disturb a member of the Commission when exercising powers or functions; 
b ) interrupt the proceedings of the Commission; 
use insulting language towards a member of the Commission; or 
by writing or speech use words calculated- 
to influence improperly a member of the Commission or a witness before the Commission; or and this is the most important provision - 
to bring a member of the Commission or the Commission into disrepute. 
Penalty: Five hundred dollars or imprisonment for 12 months, or both. 
I turn now to section 19 1 of the Act, which states: 
1 ) A person who has committed an offence against this Act or the regulations may be charged accordingly before the Court and the  Court  may impose the penalty provided by this Act or the regulations in respect of that offence. 
Proceedings before the Court under this section may be instituted by summons issued upon information, without indictment. 
They are the relevant sections of the Act.  Mr Hawke  should be charged with contempt of the Commission and brought before the Industrial Bench of the Federal Court of Australia. What is  Sir John  Moore, the  President  of the Commission, doing about it? Is he prepared to defend the integrity and dignity of his own Full Bench comprising  Mr Justice  Ludeke,  Mr Justice  Isaac and Commissioner Vosti? On the past record of those gentlemen, no one could accuse that Full Bench of being anti-trade union. It is a bench with an impeccable record. 
If  Sir John  Moore is not prepared to take action under section 182 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to protect his own Full Bench, the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  should do so.  Mr Hawke  does not stop at insulting the Full Bench- this responsible and courageous Full Bench which took the only decision which it felt it could take under the circumstances.  Mr Hawke  goes on, in reports of his statements, to urge that the Commission should give in to industrial blackmail. Let me quote him again from the Adelaide  Advertiser,  which reports him as saying: 
They 've got an industrial dispute and if it was true that the unions case was incoherent, they are still charged with the responsibility of settling the dispute. 
They are paid enough bloody money to say 'Well perhaps the union case didn't cover everything but we are now charged with the settlement of an industrial dispute and we will now settle it'. 
If that is not a statement which urges the Full Bench of the Commission to give in to outright industrial blackmail, I do not know what is such a statement. This stands in marked contrast with statements made by  Mr Ken  Stone, the Secretary of the Victorian Trades Hall Council, who said last night that he thought the men should have returned to work. He said: 
My view is that they should have returned to work out of sheer common sense. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The House is debating a set of Bills whose passage will have the effect of restructuring the stevedoring industry in Australia. I was interested in a number of the remarks made by the spokesman for the Op- f position, the honourable member for Gellibrand  Mr Willis),  who has just resumed his seat. He indicated that the Opposition would not be opposing this legislation. Therefore, there is probably no need for a lengthy and heated debate on the subject. However, I would like to address myself to one or two of the problems that the Government faced in looking at the industry and the need for restructuring it and to make one or two observations about the legislation that has been introduced. 
Few, if any, industries in the Commonwealth have been the subject of so many commissions of inquiry, reports, studies and complaints as the stevedoring industry. Unhappily that has been accompanied in the past by a period of trouble on the waterfront. As a result of that, we have a stevedoring industry in Australia which must be rated as being a high-cost industry. In many respects it is an industry which is typified by meagre output. Appeasement has been the policy followed by governments of various political complexions over a lengthy period, and amongst the byproducts of that policy of appeasement has been the progressive destruction of effective managerial control, upon which the rational and economic conduct of all industry must depend. 
Reform in this sector of the Australian economy is of prime importance. Yet defiance of authority generally in this area has become a way of life. One therefore faces the problem of finding a way in which to restructure the industry without bringing on a direct confrontation between the unions, on the one side, and the Government, on the other. I think the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is to be commended for the way in which he has approached this task, because since he took on responsibility for that portfolio he has ensured that all the parties can get together to discuss the matter and work out an agreement upon which the Government can base its own legislation for the restructuring of the industry. That obviously is the preferable way of going about it, rather than the government simply legislating and forcing all the parties in the industry to conform to that legislation, when the parties may not wish to proceed in that way. 
As has already been indicated, the Government faced the prospect of going in two substantially different directions. It could get out of the industry altogether and try to restore a normal employer-employee relationship within the stevedoring industry or it could decide that the problems in the industry could be solved only by a government body having even greater disciplinary power and an even greater involvement than has the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority at present and therefore perhaps going to the extent of nationalisation, as has been mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The Government chose the first alternative, that is, to try to get out of the industry as far as possible and to restore in the industry a normal relationship or as close to a normal relationship as could be achieved. 
Certainly everyone involved in the industry is dissatisfied with the current situation. Those who favour the withdrawal of the Government from the industry use the argument that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has been powerless to intervene and should be abolished because it is just a useless anachronism. Some people reply to that argument with the point that the Authority has been rendered ineffective because of the lack of government support for its disciplinary powers, on the one hand, and because of union and employer pressure, on the other. 
When it came into office the Government had before it the report presented by  Mr Justice  Northrop. As was mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech, late in 1975 the then Minister or Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland, requested  Mr R.  M. Northrop, Q.C. to report on the views of the parties to the industry as to what they saw as the problems and how they thought they could be overcome.  Mr Justice  Northrop, as he subsequently became, reported to the Government in early 1976.  His  report indicated that, whilst all of the organisations and parties who made submissions to him agreed that the existing arrangements should not be allowed to continue, there was a sharp division between those who proposed that the Government should take a more direct role in the industry and those who believed the Government should seek to withdraw from its existing limited regulatory role. 
The Northrop report also commented on a number of the problems that existed in the industry. For example, it drew attention to the need to provide for a reduction in the existing size of the work force. Obviously the system of voluntary redundancy on the waterfront posed a problem. The report drew attention to the need to provide a satisfactory means of providing additional waterside workers to cope with fluctuating labour needs. It pointed to the need for evidence of an adequate method of labour allocation and a means of securing improved industrial relations. It commented on the need for effective consultative arrangements to allow user intereststhese often are the forgotten people in the industryand others to have an effective voice in that industry. Of course, there was the need to ensure that satisfactory funding arrangements were made, including measures to recover the deficit accumulated by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
The first step in the industry being restructured by the Government was to ask  Mr Justice  Robinson of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to bring the parties in the industry together in conference to consider ways of overcoming the problem of surplus labour. Arising from those discussions a special redundancy program was developed which was to apply for a limited period. Mention has already been made of the great success achieved in bringing the work force of the industry down from 21,000 men in 1966 to a position where there are now slightly more than 10,000 waterside workers, which represents quite a remarkable reduction. It is notable to point out that since June 1975 the work force has been reduced by almost 3,000 as a result of the efforts to get people out of the industry and to get the labour levels down to the point which is really applicable in the industry. 
The Government also asked  Mr Richard  Kirby in December of last year to bring the parties together and to try to develop a framework within which the problems of the industry could be handled and the overall performance of the industry improved. As a result of his report and the agreement expressed in it, the Government has considered its legislation and based a very large part of its legislation on that agreement. The features of that legislation include provisions for improved utilisation of the labour force so that surplus labour held by any employer can be made available for use by all other employers in the port and so that arrangements can be made for casual pools of labour to operate where there are fluctuating needs and a high demand at particular times. There have been measures to improve the industrial relations system in the industry, consultative arrangements to make sure that problems are ironed out by consultation, steps to protect the interests of the smaller pons and a means by which the accumulated deficit of the industry can be recovered. 
I draw attention to one or two problems in other parts of waterfront activity. I refer to the position of the shippers of bulk cargo- that is, those who ship ores, minerals, sugar and other products which are loaded by conveyor belt operations, for example. Their position is one which has not been affected directly by the operations on the waterfront because under the previous legislation something of a division was brought about by the fact that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority had a regulatory role to play in terms of the handling of conventional cargo. The handling of other bulk cargo was outside that scheme of operation. The legislation which the Minister has introduced has sought to protect the status quo in the stevedoring industry in respect of the division between the handling of conventional cargo and the handling of bulk cargo, insofar as that division can be preserved under the new arrangements. Of course where there is a different structure it is difficult to preserve exactly the same situation. The Government has attempted to do so, as was in fact agreed by all parties to the stevedoring industry conference. 
I will be interested to see whether the new arrangements work. I believe the Government has taken the right approach in attempting to involve all interested parties in discussion and in corning to an agreement on how the new arrangements should proceed. However it is a debatable point as to whether the Government should become more heavily involved or whether it should have tried to get out of the industry altogether. On the basis that the various parties to the industry want to restore a normal employer-employee relationship, I believe the Government should act on that general wish in the industry. If we find after a period of years that the arrangement does not work out as hoped, if we find that certain ship owners, for example, decide that because they want to get their ship out of port they give in very readily to pressure for extra benefits, without having regard to the impact that would have on other ship owners and on the cost structure of the stevedoring industry as a whole, this Government or any government may have to reconsider its stand and see whether it should revise the situation and become involved in the industry to a much greater extent. 
I compliment the Minister on the enormous amount of work that he has done in the past two years in bringing about this agreement and bringing the legislation to this point. Those of us who have been involved in some discussions with him and with representatives of the various parties involved in the industry know just how many thorny problems there have been to iron out. I think it is to his credit that he has been able to bring into the House this set of Bills for consideration by the Parliament Indeed it is to his credit that he has been able to introduce a scheme which, by and large, has the support of all political parties in this Parliament. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Government noted the recommendation in the Norgard report on the Commonwealth Employment Service regarding the role of computers in the CES? What action has the Government taken on this recommendation? 
-The Opposition has proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance the following: 
The Government's responsibility for the worst unemployment since the Great Depression. 
I believe that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has dealt very adequately with the Government's economic policies and the way in which through these policies it is trying to restore real health to the Australian economy so that there can be a growth in the Australian work force and in economic activity generally. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  dealt specifically with a number of programs that his Department has introduced to cope with various aspects of unemployment and the creation of employment opportunities. I want to deal with some of the things that the Opposition has not raised in this debate- some of the gaps in the comments of Opposition speakers in their attacks on the Government- because they have sought to say that the Government is totally responsible for the present level of unemployment. 
We all have concern for the level of unemployment in this country at present. But I think it is a measure of the inadequate thinking of Opposition members that they have not raised in this debate a large number of factors which influence the total level of unemployment. For example, there was no recognition of the structural changes which have taken place in Australian industry, many of which were promoted and exacerbated by the activities of the former Labor Government. It is not a matter of casting our minds back to the days of the Whitlam Government and saying that all blame must rest with it. But we must recognise that a number of longterm structural changes started to take place in the Australian economy as a result of actions taken by that Government. I refer, for example, to the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut which really put many industries totally out of business and which made sure that many Australian companies were wary about ever investing in Australia again. I think that those of us who have read the comments by  Mr Fred  Daly in a book he published recently will know that there was great disagreement even within the ranks of the Labor Government- certainly he expressed disagreement on his behalf and on behalf of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)-  about that action. There was no recognition from the Opposition in this debate of the problems facing a government which inherited the economic situation of two years ago compared with the relatively minor problems which the Labor Government inherited when it came to power. It took over an economy in good shape. Let us look at what the present Government took over when it came to power. When the Labor Government came into office it inherited an unemployment figure of about 135,000 people. When it left office, that figure had increased to 328,000 people. Moreover, in respect to unemployment amongst the young- those young people under 20 years of age- when Labor came into office 80,000 young people were unemployed. When it left office, the youth unemployment figure was 152,000 or nearly double. We can say at least that the Opposition brings one element of expertise to this debate. Honourable members opposite are experts in creating unemployment. 
In addition, there was no recognition in the comments from honourable members opposite who spoke in the debate of the social changes which have been taking place in Australian society. For example, I refer to the increase in the number of women in the work force. I do not suggest that every job presently occupied by a woman would otherwise be occupied by a school leaver or somebody else who is on the unemployment lists. But certainly there have been changes in the patterns of preference of employers for labour. We must take those changes into account. It is in recognition of this type of social change that the Government has introduced the Special Youth Employment Training Program designed to reduce the cost to an employer of taking on a young person and training that young person in a productive form of work. 
There was no recognition from Opposition speakers in the debate of the contribution which has been made to unemployment by people over whom the Government and indeed the Australian community has no control. I refer to some of the more irresponsible elements in the trade union movement- the people who, for example, brought about the La Trobe Valley power strike last year. The effects of that power strike are still being felt throughout the economy, not only in Victoria but interstate as well. I know of a number of small businesses which found that that was the strike which put them out of business. The owners of the businesses decided that they could not continue any further when the strike was over and that they should not go to the bother and all the trouble of re-investing and re-employing people and trying to get back into business. That strike had a long-term effect on the survival of many small to medium-size businesses in particular. 
Of course, I must refer also to the bans imposed by members of the Australian Builders Labourers Federation on major building projects in Victoria. There are now a number of organisations, companies and certain people interested in building projects in Victoria who say they will not take on new construction commitments in that State because they have no certainty that it will be possible to carry out those commitments with any efficiency and according to any predetermined timetable. Therefore, we find that a number of projects which could have been started and which could have employed many more people have not got under way because of that irresponsible industrial action which was taken last year. Certainly, no one can lay the blame for that sort of action at the feet of this Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in his speech introducing this debate, accused the Government of continually fiddling with the figures. I am not quite sure what he meant by that because I believe that there is real concern on both sides of the House to obtain figures on the employment situation which give us an accurate impression of what is happening and to give us a proper basis for an analysis of the figures and for subsequent action. In order to indicate that this concern is expressed on both sides of the House, I will quote from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 1 September 1975 when the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  asked a question of the then Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I wonder whether the question was perhaps a Dorothy Dixer. The honourable member for Gellibrand asked: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration inform the House why the unemployment figures compiled by the Department of Labor and Immigration from its Commonwealth Employment Service records are substantially in excess of those produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics through its quarterly labour force survey? In view of the fact that the Bureau's unemployment figures are compiled on an internationally accepted basis, what reliance can be placed on the CES figures as an accurate measure of unemployment in this country? 
I do not disagree with the tone of that question. I do not think that anyone on this side of the House would disagree with the content of that question. But it indicates that there is concern on both sides of the House about the accuracy and the reliability of the figures that we receive on unemployment in this country. 
I think that a number of points can be made about the unemployment figures which we have to indicate some of the factors which can cause error and cause misleading information to arise. For example, I refer to the fact that many people who are unemployed find employment for themselves and subsequently do not notify the Commonwealth Employment Service that they have found such employment through their own resources. Those people remain on the unemployment statistics for some time afterwards until it is discovered that they have found employment through their own resources. There is a lag in taking people who find employment off the lists. I suggest that there is a greater tendency now, compared with many years ago, for people to register as being unemployed with the CES at a very early stage. School leavers quite properly are urged by their teachers and by careers officers to register as unemployed as soon as possible with the Commonwealth Employment Service to put themselves in the best position to find available jobs and so their eligibility for unemployment benefits eventually can be determined. 
I think it is fair to say that 10 or 15 years ago there was not such a community acceptance of a person who was unemployed immediately registering as being unemployed. People tended to register, to receive unemployment benefits only when they were in very difficult straits. They did not accept, as it is accepted now, that it was their right to accept unemployment benefits, whatever their financial situation might have been. There is a greater social acceptance of registering as unemployed and in accepting unemployment benefits. I do not quarrel with that. But when we are trying to compare figures produced in respective years we must consider the changed circumstances and changed community attitudes. I believe that the Opposition has failed in this debate to bring forward a number of factors which are important and which should have been considered. 
-Before speaking about the matter I particularly wanted to raise tonight, I wish to comment on something that was said by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in his remarks earlier in the adjournment debate. I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  dealt very effectively with the main burden of what the honourable member for Melbourne had to say and effectively demolished the allegations he made on that occasion. There was one other inaccuracy which I picked up in his speech and which I would like to draw to the attention of the House. It is typical of the sort of inaccurate, wild accusations that the honourable member for Melbourne makes repeatedly in this House. 
He said, for example, that women's refuges are being forced to close because of expenditure cuts by this Government. Nothing could be further from the truth. I recall that in the last Budget we allocated an amount of up to $ 1 ,7m to be expended on women's refuges, compared with the amount of $700,000 allocated in the previous Budget. So last year's allocation was more than double that of the previous year. It not only enabled the Maroondah Halfway House, which is located in my electorate, to continue operating in security but also enabled other women's refuges to be opened up around the country. I know that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is very interested in this matter. I took him along to the Maroondah Halfway House late last year to let him see what was happening there and to allow him to speak to some of the women inhabiting that house at the time. What the honourable member for Melbourne said is typical of the wild accusations that he makes repeatedly in this House. I think we should be wary of trusting anything that he says in this chamber. 
I want now to draw to the attention of the House a matter which was brought to my attention by a constituent who expressed concern at the lack of engineering design work being done in Australia on many major construction projects. I share his concern, having in mind in particular future developments on the North West Shelf and in uranium rnining. He expressed concern that more needed to be done to overcome the dearth of expertise in many aspects of engineering design in Australia. Often companies advance the argument that the necessary skills are not available in this country and that contracts for the design work therefore have to be let outside Australia. I raised the point that if Australians are not given the opportunity to participate those skills will never be developed in Australia. 
I wrote to three Ministers on this subject- the Minister for Productivity, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)-  thinking that each of them would have an interest in it. No doubt other Ministers in performing their responsibilities also have an interest in it. After I wrote to those Ministers I received a copy of the journal of the Association of Consulting Engineers, which is called the  Australian Consulting Engineer.  That journal raised precisely the same point. I shall read to the House what it had to say about the reaction in Australian industry or by Australian public authorities when faced with problems involving complex technology. The journal states: 
A 'play safe' approach indicated that if you appointed overseas consultants or other specialists no one would criticise your decision. 
The overseas experts engaged on this basis would send a handful of people to Australia and recruit project staff from local organisations. At the end the imports would usually disappear and the local recruits would disperse. 
The 'play safe' attitude still exists in some companies and some arms of government but there is today a much greater realisation of the high standards of engineering and problem-solving available from Australian sources. In the mining field there are, of course, areas of highly specialised technology in which a few firms or individuals in the world have rare experience and know-how. 
But too often the need for the technology leads to an unthinking handover to foreign firms or companies of whole areas of activity which could just as easily be looked after by Australians, with much greater benefit to this country. 
I have raised this matter because I hope that in any future developments which take place on the North West Shelf and in uranium mining the government departments and authorities concerned will do their utmost to ensure that Australian consulting firms and Australian design engineers are employed to the maximum possible extent. 
-My question is also directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Today's Melbourne  Age  states: 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr Mackellar,  has predicted an influx of black, white and coloured South Africans into Australia. 
Since various newspapers have reported recently that the Minister believed that there would be a great wish for a large number of black people to come to Australia, I ask the Minister: When and on what basis did he make the prediction? Does the Minister consider that migrants from Southern Africa will be shunted into dirty jobs, as one part of the  Age  report also suggests? 
-Firstly, I congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his election to serve a second period as  Speaker  of this House and the  Chairman  of Committees on his election to serve his first term in that position. I am sure that there will be many subsequent terms in that position for him. I add my comments to those of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  about the quality of the maiden speeches which have been made on both sides of the chamber. I have been most impressed with them. I may refer to one or two of them later in my remarks. I want to deal specifically with a part of the GovernorGeneral's Speech which is of great interest to me, that is, the reference which he made to the spirit of participation and employee involvement in the work place. I shall read the sentence which contains that phrase. Referring to the Government's objectives, he said: 
A wider spirit of participation and employee involvement in the work-place will be encouraged so that employees and employers can co-operate to improve industrial safety, working conditions, job satisfaction and productivity. 
I want to deal with this concept of worker participation, or industrial democracy as it is sometimes called, and point out some of the fallacies, the traps and the advantages of it. In my view it is often a misunderstood concept, because when people think of phrases such as 'worker participation' or 'industrial democracy' they often have different things in mind. So people 's reactions to these concepts, whether they are in favour of them or against them, often vary because they are really thinking of something different, not because they disagree with the basic concepts. 
It seems to me that three streams of thought represent the concept of worker participation. Firstly, some people think in terms of workers participating in the financial side of a company, having a financial share in it. An example of this in Australia is Fletcher Jones and Staff Pty Ltd in which employees have a right to hold shares. They can hold them until they leave the company. If the employee dies those shares go on to his widow but eventually they must return to the company so that they can be resold to new employees. That is one concept, and we have had put to us from time to time developments on that shareholding concept. I recall 18 months or two years ago a gentleman by the name of Kelso visiting Australia to promote his concept of employee share participation or the Employee Stock Option Plan-ESOP, as he called it. 
There are other systems, whereby the employees can be tied into the financial success of their companies by way of wages contracts, which include some element dependent on the profitability of the company. This is very typical of the larger Japanese companies in which they have a system of annual wages contracts which incorporate annual bonuses related to company profitability. This situation is very appropriate to the Japanese context because Japan has a history of company-based labour unions, and a negotiated contract can therefore be worked out between the company and the labour union within that company. That cannot necessarily be translated into the Australian environment in exactly the same terms but there is a range of things which are often meant by people when they talk about worker participation. I do not want to eliminate that sort of financial arrangement or shareholding arrangement. It may be appropriate in some companies but it will not be acceptable to some company managements and indeed it will not be acceptable to some employees and trade unions. They may feel that they do not want to be tied into the financial success of the company in quite that way. I think it is a good idea where that arrangement can be reached by negotiation between both sides but it is certainly not something that ought to be imposed on unwilling parties. 
The second stream of thought which represents the concept of worker participation is the appointment or election of worker directors to boards of companies and public enterprises. I suppose that in many people's minds this is the thing that really comes to the forefront when the term 'worker participation' or 'industrial democracy' is used. I suggest that if we start off thinking of worker participation as meaning necessarily the appointment of worker directors to boards of corporations and public authorities we are likely to stand the whole thing on its head and produce a great number of suspicions which we could overcome with a rather more subdued and cooperative approach. I raise as an example the reaction to the Bullock report in the United Kingdom. From the reports I have"1 read of the attitudes of industry organisations and trade unions I am led to believe that there is now a stand-off situation in the consideration of the Bullock report which recommended on the appointment of worker directors. Both sidesemployers and employees- are suspicious of this concept of the appointment of worker directors. The situation seems to have reached something of a stalemate. 
Indeed, one can see a number of objections in proceeding too rapidly into this field of the appointment of worker directors. Firstly, there is the possibility that a conflict of interests can arise with a worker director on a board. I raise something that I have raised in this Parliament in the past and that is the position on the Australian Postal Commission of  Mr George  Slater, the General Secretary of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union. I pointed out some time ago in this House the situation in which he found himself during the period of the Medibank strike when the Postal Commission, of which he was a member, urged employees of the Post Office to turn up for work and the union, of which he was General Secretary, urged people not to go to work on that particular day. So he faced this situation of a conflict of interests between his Commission position and his union position. That is something we need to think about a great deal further before we rush headlong into the idea of the appointment of worker directors. 
There can also be a problem with the lack of experience in business procedures of some people who are appointed as union representatives. If they go on to a board of directors without having adequate training in or orientation with business procedures that are to be used it may well be that they would feel uncomfortable and out of place and not able to make the contribution which we would hope they would be able to make to the solution of problems of relationships within that company. Therefore there is the danger that if we proceed too fast in that direction it will lead to a feeling of inadequacy on the part of some union officials who are appointed to such positions. Then of course there is the danger of tokenism. It is very easy to say, 'We will appoint one or two worker directors to company boards', but those one or two people can always be outvoted by the other directors on the board. That company can then say 'We have worker participation', but what does it mean in real terms? It can be just a mere token to provide some sop to the clamour for greater worker involvement. 
What we are really talking about when we talk of worker participation and industrial democracy is the third stream of thought that I want to raise, and that is the real involvement in the organisation of work and the decision making by employees throughout the whole structure of industry and commerce starting from the factory floor. The areas of job enrichment, job enlargement, autonomous and semi-autonomous work groups are the areas in which some start needs to be made. Many of the more progressive companies in Australia have already made a start along these lines. It is a difficult problem with which to grapple because it means laying down or putting aside some of the old jealousies and perhaps areas of exclusive authority that various people have had in the past. It means a changed attitude on the part of some managements to the involvement of their employees in company affairs and a greater willingness on the part of those managements to make a wider range of information about company activities, its successes and failures, available to those employees. 
In many cases it also means the abandoning of some of the trade union jealousies that exist within the trade union movement itself. If one is to talk about job enlargement, giving people a wider range of activities and a wider area of involvement in their work place, one can conceivably run into demarcation disputes between individual unions within the same plant. So union attitudes to the work that their members have to perform will often need to be changed, and that may have a consequence for the vested interests of certain union officials and the structures that they have built up. This has enormous implications for government training policies and for attitudes towards the trade union training authority, for example, and its role in the training of people with a proper perspective of worker participation and worker involvement. I suggest that what we need to do is to develop from the bottom up, if I may put it that way, rather than to try to impose something from the top down. That was the fundamental error of the Bullock report, from all that I can read of the reactions to that report in the United Kingdom. 
I want to move from that area to develop some of the points which were raised particularly by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  in his maiden speech when he moved the motion to adopt the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I thought it was an exemplary maiden speech, one which was thoughtful and which produced a great deal of material which ought to be considered further by this Parliament. In addressing himself to some of the problems of the Australian economy and to the structure of work in Australia, he said: 
We should consider also possibly changing certain benefits already given. Certain industries, for example, tourism and the hotel industry, have been sorely damaged by silly benefits regarding penalty and overtime rates and the like agreed to in that period. 
I think that was a very timely comment from the honourable member for Mackellar because one of the real problems that we face in this country is developing the potential of the tourist industry which we ought to have in Australia. Quite frankly, it is appalling that Australians can be offered package tours to South East Asia, New Zealand, the Pacific countries and Hawaii which are cheaper than the prices of package tours which can be offered to Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia. I believe that part of the reason for that discrepancy is the cost structure of the tourist industry. Where we have a situation where normal pay is based on the concept of a nine to five job for five days a week from Monday to Friday and where any time worked outside those specified hours has to be paid for at overtime rates and special penalty rates, we have a situation where we cannot develop realistically a tourist industry in Australia that will compete with overseas tourist industries. I refer, for example, to a person who decides to take five days leave, one normal working week's leave, from his employment. That person would usually choose to travel on the weekend in order to turn that five days leave into eight or nine days holiday using up the weekend on each side. But it is at the weekend, when people want to use airport facilities and airlines, and to check into and out of hotels, when the maximum penalty rates have to be paid. Therefore, it is impossible in many areas of the tourist industry to operate a 24-hour, seven day a week service at anything like a competitive rate. I do not suggest that the Australian tourist industry should pay people at cheap rates or at rates they do not earn. I suggest that in the structure of award rates and penalty rates, we must give some consideration to the nature of the industry. It cannot be regarded as an industry with a normal working week from 9 o'clock to 5 o'clock Monday to Friday, as happens in many other industries. It is a seven day a week industry and should be treated that way. Therefore, it was with some concern that I noted the response of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  to the very fine speech of the honourable member for Mackellar. When referring to the honourable member for Mackellar, the honourable member for Burke said: 
As I heard his words, he said in effect that if the tourist industry of this country is to prosper, it will prosper by being able to use employees at a lower rate of pay than is generally  acceptable in the community or with lesser benefits than are acceptable to the community. 
Later, again referring to the honourable member for Mackellar, he said: 
He said that service in the tourist industry and in the domestic service of other people could be described only as menial and that people should be encouraged to go into those industries to become servants and to benefit those who cared to employ them. 
That is a most inadequate understanding of the nature of service industries and the tourist industry in particular. There are many people, a large proportion of the work force, who are engaged in serving other people in one form or another. I was disappointed that the honourable member for Burke chose to describe the speech of the honourable member for Mackellar in that way. 
I was most impressed with the analysis of the Australian work force which was given by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  in his maiden speech. He is an old friend of mine, if I might describe him as such. We have met in a number of contexts in the past. In describing what he called the quinary sector of the economy, he said that this category provides services which are provided within the home or are analogous to domestic services, for example, the provision of food and shelter, the care of children and the aged, cleaning and other home duties, and voluntary work for charities. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for the dinner break I was referring to the speech made by the honourable member for Lalor in which he had divided the economy into live sectors and in which he spoke of services which are analogous to domestic services, such as the sort of work which might be done in hotels, restaurants and in relation to some tourist activities. I believe his contribution was a very valuable and thoughtful one which provided a great deal of information which we should consider further. I agree with him when he says that we need to look at the area of the provision of personal services as being a most important area in the future development of the economy. The point I was making about the tourist industry was that our general conception of working patterns and of industrial relations, such as the fixing of awards and determinations, does not quite suit the needs of the tourist industry and probably does not suit the needs of the development of these personal service industries generally. 
I move on to deal with another need which I see in the economy, and that is the great need to ensure that there is further interchange between government, private industry and academia. I have noted with great pleasure that in recent months the Government has started a program of interchange between personnel in the Public Service and private industry. Some of the major companies, such as Civil and Civic, Mobil Oil Australia, Imperial Chemical Industries, Mayne Nickless, and James Hardie and Co., have supplied people to government departments on an exchange basis, and in return people from certain government departments, such as the former Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Defence, the Department of Transport, the Attorney-General's Department and the Foreign Affairs Department, have been provided with short term employment in private companies. That sort of activity is most necessary, particularly when one considers that in Canberra at present we are developing a second generation of people who have only a Public Service background. I refer to the sons and daughters of public servants who are themselves moving into employment with the Public Service. 
In order to ensure that there is a proper appreciation of the roles, experience and expertise of each sector of the economy- government and private employment- it is necessary to ensure that this interchange of personnel takes place. Personally I hope that in future that system of interchange will include the universities and other tertiary educational institutions. There is a grave need to ensure that people in universities enter the Public Service and private industry for short stints so that everyone can gain from the expertise that they have to offer. That may mean also that we have to re-think some of our attitudes in relation to the sort of continuity of employment, guarantees of employment, that might be necessary to enable the appropriate release of people so that such an interchange program will work. Those are a number of the points which I believe need to be considered in developing a much more flexible work force which can contribute to Australia 's growth. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Before calling the honourable member for Bonython, I remind the House that the honourable member is about to make his maiden speech and I request that the normal courtesy be extended to him, namely, that he be heard without interruption. 
I wish to raise something which arose from a speech made on the opening day of the Thirty-first Parliament and which caused me some concern. In a speech on the nominations for the position of  Speaker  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is reported in the House of Representatives  Hansard  at page 5 of 2 1 February this year to have said: 
I might mention that if the right honourable member for Bruce is to protect the rights of individual members of this House he should cease making the very heavy imposition that he has made on the research services of the Parliamentary Library, especially the legal research service. The result has been that private members of parliament have not been able to obtain the sort of service to which they are entitled. 
In a letter which I subsequently wrote to you,  Mr Speaker,  I said: 
I am not concerned with the accuracy or otherwise of the allegation as far as the imposition by you on the research service is concerned. As one who also uses the research service, however, I am concerned at the implication of a breach of confidentiality by that service. I understand that officers of the service are bound not to reveal any information about the work they have done for individual members of Parliament. 
I would be grateful if you would ascertain the source of  Mr Hayden  's disturbing remark. 
I was therefore very interested when you,  Mr Speaker,  forwarded to me a copy of the minute which was prepared after inquiries that you made of the Parliamentary Librarian,  Mr A.  L. Moore.  Mr Moore  deals with two matters. Firstly, he deals with the matter of your use of the Parliamentary Library Research Service. Then he goes on to the question of confidentiality. So, just to correct any mistaken impression which the Leader of the Opposition might have left in terms of your own use of the Research Service, I will quote directly from this minute from the Parliamentary Librarian. As to your use of the Service, he says: 
You made 22 requests of the Research Service in 1 976 and 23 in 1977. The figures in the two years for the Law and Government Group - 
The Group in question- were five and six respectively. There are many other clients who make very much greater use of the Research Service as a whole or of the Law and Government Group in particular. Moreover, I am satisfied that it is quite wrong to say that your requests for help from the Research Service are a heavy imposition on it, or any part of it. 
So let that put the record straight for a start. Then the Librarian went on to deal in the minute with the question of confidentiality and he made the suggestion that may be there was some misunderstanding in some circles about the origin of the Bills digest program, copies of which we receive from time to time from the Parliamentary Library. Apparently the Bills digest program resulted from a suggestion which you,  Mr Speaker,  made in October 1976. Accordingly, some people in the Library apparently are still under the impression that the work they are doing on the Bills digest is being done in your name.  Mr Moore  in his minute went on to say: 
From the beginning of the 1977 Parliamentary year the digests have been offered to all Senators and Members and have met with an enthusiastic response. By the end of 1977 we had about 1 SO senators and members as clients. The service was commended by Senate Estimates Committee A in September 1977. 
I, of course, take full responsibility for the present character of the Bills digest program and for including it in our Research Service activities. I am convinced that it is basic to a Legislative Research Service; and I am satisfied that the time spent on it is well justified as it meets a need for such a large proportion of senators and members. 
He concluded by saying: 
From discussions I have had with staff during the last week it seems to me likely from dme to time a member of my staff has said that work on an individual request would have to wait till a Bills digest had been written. This would be perfectly proper but it would be quite improper for any member of my staff to imply, or for any senator or member to infer, that you were responsible for any delay in dealing with a request from anyone else. 
I think the Leader of the Opposition therefore should answer for the inaccurate information which he has given to this Parliament. One of two things must be the case. Either someone in the Library has been indiscreet in information or opinions which he or she has passed on to a member requesting Research Service work, or the Leader of the Opposition has completely misrepresented the comments that were made to him by the member of the Library. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) How many women's refuges are now receiving funding through the Community Health Program. 
) How many refuges are there in each State. 
Will further refuges receive funding before 30 June 1978; if so, how many. 
I compliment the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  on the statement he has made of the broad principles behind the proposed development of public broadcasting in this country. The Minister should be very pleased with the nature of the debate that has followed his statement. In fact, it has not been a case of total support from this side of the Houseperhaps he will not be quite so pleased about that- and it has not been a case of total opposition from members of the Opposition. I hope that other Ministers will take more opportunities to present statements of principle to the House so that honourable members can express themselves, perhaps not in such a party political partisan way, at a stage in the development of policies when it is possible to make an individual contribution. That is what is happening in this debate. The Minister addressed himself to a fundamental question when he said: 
The problem for government of course, is the extent to which the system can, or should, be regulated. Where does sensible planning and policy implementation finish, and totalitarian control start? 
The airwaves are public property, as the Minister stated very clearly, and governments must have a role in protecting the public interest. But I have found that there is confusion amongst many members of the public as to what is the role of government. Honourable members might remember that a year or so ago there was some controversy about a proposed restructuring of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Indeed, my name was mentioned in despatches from the party room as being one of those who wanted to see some changes made to that original intention. I will not comment on the accuracy or otherwise of those despatches from the confidentiality of the party room, but I was interested to note that afterwards I got many letters and telephone calls of congratulation from people who said 'Good on you for sticking up for the ABC, or 'Thanks for protecting the ABC, and other messages of that nature. 
I was fascinated to find though, at later stages when other issues arose, such as the management decision to transfer Terry Lane, or to transfer some program from one time slot to another, or perhaps to abolish a program, that many of the same people wrote to me: 'Couldn't you have used your influence to put Terry Lane back on the air or to have fixed up that programming change? "They did not realise the obvious inconsistency in what that were saying. On the one hand they were saying, 'Thanks for protecting the independence of the ABC, and on the other hand they were saying, albeit in not such blunt terms, 'Please use your political influence to bring about a particular program change within the ABC. I shall return to one aspect of this matter of the regulation of broadcasting a little later. 
The Minister outlined the various categories of licences which will apply to public broadcasting. Firstly, there is the category E licence for educational bodies; secondly, the category S licence for special interest groups; and, thirdly, the category C licence for community groups in particular geographical areas. I shall concentrate particularly on the need for that third category of licence- the category C licence- for community groups in various geographical areas. The outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne, a large part of which I represent, I think can accurately be described as a wasteland in terms of communications systems. 
-The honourable member for Lalor had his deprived west; I can perhaps talk about the wastelands of the east. I point to a problem that we have in the area extending from Nunawading, through Ringwood, Croydon, Lilydale and up to Healesville. That area has a very basic gap in communications services. Naturally enough the major metropolitan television and radio stations want to carry news and to put over programs which have an apeal to the whole metropolitan area. They do not want to pick up community news or information about community groups in any particular part of the Melbourne metropolitan area which may not have very broad appeal for the total listening audience. 
As far as newspapers are concerned, the Press is basically the major Melbourne metropolitan Press. One does not find the daily or thriceweekly newspapers which medium to large sized provincial centres have. One does not find the local radio and television stations to which any medium sized country town would have access. In that respect, while local newspapers of the throw-away type are published on a weekly basis, they do not fill the gap. In terms of communications, I think it is fair to say that the outer eastern suburbs of Mebourne which have a very large population, are worse served than any moderately sized country centres. So there is in that type of area a very basic need, I believe, for a low powered station to service the local population. 
I want to deal with the way in which that station is to be regulated in terms of its programing policies. In fact I do not believe that that will produce a very great problem for governments. We have had many complaints about some of the public broadcasting stations which have been operating to date. One gets complaints about particular groups controlling the licence or, in the case of ethnic radio programs, a particular faction in an ethnic community getting control of the hour's time slot for that particular ethnic community and putting over propaganda which is divisive in its nature and which produces tensions within that ethnic community. That is a problem that we face, I think, and with which we have yet to deal properly in relation to the category S licence, if I can put it that way, because it seems to me that those complaints of bias and of promoting divisiveness can apply potentially to category S licences which are designed to service special interest groups covering a broad area. 
I believe that in the case of the category C licence that problem is unlikely to arise, or at least it is unlikely to arise to any major degree. Any local community radio station will be dependent very much on local community groups, municipal councils and local sponsors. Let us take, for example, the situation of the local newspaper. A local newspaper cannot produce the sort of journalism that one finds in the Melbourne  Truth  or in the  Sunday Observer  or newspapers of that nature because local newspapers fundamentally are dependent on the goodwill of their local communities and the sort of feedback they get from them. They depend on the secretaries of the local sporting bodies coming in on a Monday morning and handing over the sporting results. If they were to publish for a couple of weeks in a row a nude female on page 3 to try to boost circulation, they would be likely to have a line-up of angry mums from the local area outside the editor's office saying, 'Look, we are trying to raise families in this area'. 
What I am saying is that there is that natural contact with the local community and, indeed, there is reliance on the local community to provide it with information and news that it can publish. So it would be, I believe, in the case of a low powered radio station servicing a particular local area. It can maintain its programing capacity only if it has the goodwill of the local community, and it can maintain the goodwill of the local community only if it is broadly producing material which is representative of the local community, its interests and its aspirations and, in fact, if it gives everybody a fair go. 
The Minister did not quite outline what he meant when he contrasted in his statement sponsorships with normal advertising material, spot advertising material. I expect what he means is that in these public broadcasting stations it will be possible for a sponsor to have his message put across by the announcer saying, 'The following quarter hour is brought to you courtesy of Joe Bloggs, your friendly local butcher', or 'The following municipal information is brought to you by the Croydon City Council', or giving some brief message of that nature. That would be better than people having advertisements pounded into them. Of course, the local sponsors, who would essentially be local people, organisations, business people and so on, would also exercise some degree of regulation over what is put across by such local radio stations. In that sense there would be a system of self-regulation which, I believe, would solve most of the problems that have usually been brought up when public broadcasting has been discussed. 
The other point I particularly wanted to make is that there is a need to ensure that there is the widest possible access by a whole range of groups to any station that might be set up. One of the complaints I heard after 3CR in Melbourne was granted its licence, for example, was that there were many other groups which had applied for that licence but which may not have actually wanted a complete licence to themselves; they would have been happy with two hours a day or even two hours a week. But the system was such that they had to get together a group to put in an application for a radio licence and have the total management of that licence. 
So I draw attention to the need for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to try to ensure that in considering applications for licences it takes steps to see that everyone who has a legitimate claim to some sort of access does indeed have access. I would like the Tribunal, for example, to exercise some discretion in suggesting to certain groups which put forward submissions that they might get together and combine their efforts or that the group which is allocated the licence is given the licence on the basis that certain other groups are brought into the program planning. In that way I think that many of the groups which have a legitimate claim but feel that they have to put up a submission for an entire licence, that they will have to manage by themselves, will in fact be able to have what they want- the degree of access that they need- without having the complete responsibility of managing the radio station. In fact, many of the groups which have applied for these experimental licences in the past have not, I believe fully appreciated the effort needed to keep a station on the air. 
I have had only a little to do with the odd political broadcast, and a few interviews here and there, but I know from some scripting and preparation that I did for a 10-minute radio spot for several weeks that, in fact, I put about two hours work into just getting together the basic material for 10 minutes on air. Therefore, many of these groups which are on a community or voluntary basis often do not appreciate the real effort needed to keep the show rolling, to get the material on air and keep it going. I believe, therefore, that a great degree of flexibility on the part of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is needed to ensure that all of these groups with a legitimate claim to access to broadcasting facilities are accommodated in some way. 
I finish on the note on which I started. I compliment the Minister on the statement that he made, and I look forward to future statements from him as broadcasting policy develops. 
-The House is debating a motion of censure of the Government which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The Leader of the Opposition in his speech made reference - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will begin my remarks again. The House is debating a motion of censure of the Government which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Motion (by  Mr Young)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Casey be not further heard. 
Question put. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government concerning the introduction of satisfactory local government legislation in Queensland and special leasing arrangements for the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities. I ask the Minister: What role will the Uniting Church in Australia play in these arrangements? In particular, will the Church be able to stay if that is the wish of the two communities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
For the General Elections held in 1972, 1974, 197S and 1977 which candidates (a) indicated teaching as their occupations and (b) for which Electoral Divisions did they nominate. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
How many members of the Public Service have worked or are working for periods on secondment to private industry through the 'Interchange' program. 
From which departments and statutory authorities have they come. 
How many employees from private industry have worked for Commonwealth Government departments or statutory authorities under the program. 
From which companies have they come. 
What growth in this program is expected during 1978. 
Are there any plans to include the administrative, research and teaching staff of tertiary education institutions in the program. 
I remind the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that the Government announced recently that it is examining ways of increasing surveillance of the northern and northwestern coastline of Australia against illegal entries. In view of the number of Aboriginal communities in these areas and having regard to their traditional fishing activities in surrounding waters, what involvement is planned for Aborigines in the area in any surveillance program? 
-The House is debating the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 and an associated amendment to the Re-establishment and Employment Amendment Bill. There is a clear need for updated and streamlined legislation of this kind. As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  pointed out, the existing legislative basis for the Commonwealth Employment Service is to be found in the Reestablishment and Employment Act 194S. That Act was designed to implement policies for reestablishing discharged servicemen and service women and for resettling workers displaced as a result of an economy changing from a war-time footing to a peace-time consumer economy. Let me state at the outset that the CES, in my experience, does a very good job in very difficult circumstances. I am sure that all honourable members who have had some contact with their local CES offices will agree that the CES does a good job in dealing with individual problems. 
I can assure the Minister that the reason he does not get many representations from me these days on individual problems concerning the CES is that they are all settled directly between my office and the local CES offices concerned. However, even dedicated CES officers would agree that the structure of the Service and its confusion of roles renders it unable to cope with the expanded range of training schemes and other manpower programs given to it by successive governments and also with the enlarged expectations of the public. There is a need for an identifiable management structure in the Commonwealth Employment Service. Presently the management responsibilities and the lines of communication are spread through various people in the CES and in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
Sometimes it can be hard for a person dealing with the CES to find out who is ultimately responsible for some aspect of administration. I have in mind a case of a constituent of mine, a person who runs a small business, who discovered recently that he had been blacklisted by the CES because he allegedly had misused its services. He felt that this was due to a misunderstanding and asked the local office to whom he should speak in the CES or the Department in order to explain his actions. No one seemed to know just quite who was the appropriate person to whom he should speak. He contacted me and after I had made some inquiries of the Minister's office I referred him to a senior officer in the regional office of the Department in Victoria who very rapidly settled the matter to the satisfaction of all. 
I am pleased therefore that the Bill now before us establishes the office of National Director of the Service. The first requirement for a clearly defined management structure is the appointment of one person who bears managerial responsibility for the organisation and who will then set up in turn proper reporting relationships up and down the line with subordinate officers held accountable for their separate functions. Ultimate responsibility which is diffused throughout a departmental bureaucracy is no responsibility at all. That does not reflect adversely on any officer of the Department or the CES who has any administrative and management responsibility at present. To my mind this was the purpose of Norgard in recommending that the Commonwealth Employment Service should be re-established as a statutory authority. I believe that the Government was wise not to proceed with the recommendation. We have had a problem in the past with the proliferation of statutory boards and commissions each taking elements of policy making out of the hands of government. Unless there is a clear need for a statutory authority, I do not believe that governments should set them up at will. I believe that the Government has in fact picked up the main purposes of that recommendation, one of them being the need for a clear management structure, and has done it in a way which avoids taking responsibility for policy formulation out of the hands of government 
I turn now to a remark which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations made in his second reading speech relating to the International Labour Organisation obligations. He said:  the Government does not intend the CES to have a monopoly of the vacancy-filling business. Private and informal contacts, newspaper advertising and recruiting agencies all play a significant role in local labour markets. However, the Government in accordance with International Labour Organisation obligations is committed to providing a national and comprehensive manpower service. 
I think all of us on this side of the House are indebted to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  for once again spelling out the socialist objectives of the ALP. Of course he advocated that the Commonwealth Employment Service ought to have a monopoly of the vacancy filling business. I want to expand a little on why that should not be so and why indeed there is great benefit to all- to employers, the unemployed and others seeking jobs, and to the economy as a whole- if there are other agencies operating in that area and providing competition. In the Minister's second reading speech to which I referred, I take it that he was referring to Convention No. 88 of the International Labour Organisation concerning the organisation of the employment service adopted by the General Conference of the ILO in 1948 and which Australia has ratified. Article I of that Convention provides that each member of the ILO shall maintain a free public employment service but it goes on to say that such a service should cooperate where necessary with other public and private bodies concerned. The honourable member for Port Adelaide clearly spelt out the socialist policy when he advocated that the Commonwealth Employment Service should have a monopoly on vacancy filling. I believe that, rather than the Commonwealth Employment Service having a monopoly, there ought to be cooperation between it and private agencies and consultancies in the field. I shall discuss the areas of co-operation between the Commonwealth Employment Service and private employment agencies. 
Indications given to me suggest that some Commonwealth Employment Service officers are standoffish and suspicious of any dealings with private agencies. For example, it has been reported to me that on occasions when a private agency has advertised a vacancy on behalf of an anonymous client company- the client has not been mentioned in the advertisement- a Commonwealth Employment Service officer has telephoned the agency to inquire about the identity of the client company so that the Commonwealth Employment Service office can refer likely candidates on its files directly to the company. The private agency, understandably, usually takes the attitude that candidates should be referred to it for assessment and possible inclusion in the short list presented to its client Apparently, the Commonwealth Employment Service takes the attitude that for it to co-operate with an agency which obtains a fee for its part of the service to the client would be contrary to the ILO obligation to provide a free employment service. 
This is surely an unduly restrictive interpretation of our ILO obligations. If a reference by the Commonwealth Employment Service to a private agency can possibly lead to a better or an earlier matching of a job seeker with an existing vacancy that is surely to be encouraged. For a private agency to obtain a fee for its work of advertising on behalf of a client, appraising applicants and preparing written reports in greater detail than the Commonwealth Employment Service is likely to do surely does not involve any breach of Australia's obligation to maintain a free national employment service. Job seekers and employers alike are free to approach the Commonwealth Employment Service at no cost to themselves but, if an employer prefers to buy the expertise and time of a private agency, that is a legitimate management decision which is made on the basis of the benefits available in return for the cost involved. 
I am sure that the purpose of Convention No. 88 was to ensure that job seekers were not exploited by being required to pay a fee or commission in order to obtain a job. The fees for normal private agency services are, in fact, paid by the employers, not by the job seekers. The operations of a national employment service on the one hand and private agencies on the other are largely complementary in my view rather than competitive. I shall refer to some of the functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service set out in clause 6 of the Bill and make some comments on them. The first function of the Commonwealth Employment Service will sound very familiar to us. It is:  . . to assist persons seeking employment or a change of employment to obtain suitable positions having regard to any experience, abilities, training or qualifications they possess and to the economic and other needs of the Australian community . . . 
Clause 6 goes on to spell out some particular categories of persons for whom special arrangements should be made such as immigrants, Aboriginals, the young and the handicapped. It also spells out the need to provide various persons with vocational guidance services. Generally, finding jobs for people is understood to be the main function of the Commonwealth Employment Service. The contrast with most private agencies is that they find people for jobs. The starting point of a private agency is to fill a vacancy which has been referred to it by a client who will bear the cost of searching for someone to fill that particular vacancy. The function of the Commonwealth Employment Service is to look at the needs of the job seekers and try to find jobs to service them. Of course, there has to be an overlap, but there is that major difference between the starting point for a national employment service concerned with overall employment matters and the function of a private agency. In that respect there is no real competition of a direct kind between a national employment service and private agencies. Their activities are complementary. The Bill goes to spell out another function of the CES, namely: 
To assist employers and intended employers wishing to fill vacant positions of employment to fill them with available persons who are suitable for the performance of the duties of, and who meet the employer's or intended employer's requirements for, the positions; . . . 
That is where some conflict can exist with private agencies. It does not necessarily exist because private agencies do provide additional services for which employers are prepared to pay a fee. It could be expertise in advertising, in interviewing, in dealing with certain categories of staff, in administering tests of a psychological nature such as aptitude tests and personality profiles, and writing reports. Some fear does exist on the part of private agencies that CES could be beefed up to compete directly with them in this area. If no comprehensive service is available in a particular region from private agencies, I think it is legitimate that the Commonwealth Employment Service should move in to fill the gap. But if agencies are available to whom employers can turn, surely it is a good thing that there should be competition between those agencies. After all, they have to justify their fees to their clients and it is a good thing if the client companies are able to pick and choose, if they are able to tell agencies where they are falling down. If they are falling down in a very bad way they will go out of business as a result. I do not think that that sort of natural check and balance in the system is to be decried. The Bill then goes on to spell out the next function of the CES, namely: to promote and implement approved manpower programs and other measures designed to ensure a high level of employment in the community. 
That is where a national employment service does have a role to play. It is not a role that can be played to a major extent by private agencies. Nonetheless, there is available in staff working in private employment agencies a large body of people who could be used by the Commonwealth Employment Service as public relations officers or information officers for the various training and manpower programs that exist and that any government might implement in the future. I believe that that is where co-operation can be improved, not in a way that would transfer any funds to the private agencies but simply in a way that would make better use of people who run private agencies. They could be informed properly of the schemes that exist and in turn they could inform clients and job seekers with whom they are dealing of the existence and availability of those schemes. 
With respect to the Commonwealth Employment Service, I believe that in this area many CES officers do need a higher degree of training and experience than they have received in the past in order to administer the programs. One complaint I have heard from employers who have dealt with CES is that in many of the CES offices there is not sufficient continuity of service of particular officers who have been dealing with the training schemes. The employer has had to go along at regular intervals to different officers who are doing a tour of duty in the local CES office and explain his needs and his case over and over again. I have had a similar complaint from some job seekers who have had dealings with a particular CES office over a period of time. I simply make that comment because it is an area of concern. I believe that to a large extent the problem is being overcome. Certainly in recent months I have had reports from the people who initially complained to me that the position has improved with respect to continuity of service of the CES officers with whom they had dealings. 
The next function of the CES listed in the Bill is: to register persons who are unemployed and who wish to claim unemployment benefits under the Social Services Act 1947 and to provide assistance in seeking employment for persons claiming or receiving such benefits; 
I believe this is where the Government needs to spell out further the real role of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the administration of unemployment benefits. I agree that officers of the CES are in a most invidious position if on the one hand they are required to be professional job placement officers helping job seekers to find satisfactory employment but on the other hand they are in a position where they are seen by the job seekers as playing the role of policeman to apply the work test to them in order to determine their eligibility for unemployment benefits. I must admit that I should not like to be in that position myself. I accept the real objection that many Commonwealth Employment Service officers have to the invidious position in which they find themselves. There is no doubt in my mind that their principal purpose in that respect is to find jobs for the job seekers who come to them asking for assistance. They must not be in a position where job seekers lack confidence in the officers with whom they are dealing. The next function is:  to publish information in respect of the labour market or the service relating to employment provided by the Service, or otherwise by the Commonwealth, or, with the  consent of the  relevant State, by a State; 
The list of duties in clause 6 goes on to mention the collection of statistics and other information relating to the labour market. The validity and accuracy of the figures provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service is an area that has provided much debate in recent years. Indeed, an advisory committee on Commonwealth Employment Service statistics was set up in 1973. It reported on some of the problems involved in the method by which the CES collected statistics and the use to which they were put. The Norgard report comments to some extent on the problems involved. I believe that there is again a conflict in roles which ought to be pointed to here. If officers of the CES are to be involved primarily in the placing of people in suitable employment, it may well be that at times when they have a peak of activity of that type they do not have the time to collect the statistics to do all the administrative procedures such as lapsing people from the rolls who have found employment through other means that would be needed in order to ensure accurate statistics of a general nature. Therefore, I believe that it is appropriate for the Bureau of Statistics to take over the main role of the collection and publication of accurate overall employment statistics and that the Commonwealth Employment Service should concentrate very much on working statistics, operational statistics, that help it to do its job better, to concentrate on finding out the numbers and categories and areas of people unemployed and the types of vacancies available in various areas so that it has better statistical tools to help it match jobs to the vacancies. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-At the Australian Institute of Political Science seminar in Canberra on Australia Day weekend last January, Professor G. S. Reid, Professor of Politics, University of Western Australia, delivered a thoughtful and incisive paper which has already been quoted by many people. One particular aspect of his address dealt with a matter which has troubled me in recent times, namely, the changing role of the judiciary in the Australian political structure. Professor Reid pointed to the increasing number of judges at Commonwealth level who are being appointed to various boards, commissions and tribunals which might be seen as part of the Executive arm of government. My own concern was initially prompted by the appointment late last year of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear matters. On researching the matter further my concern has been deepened. 
Three questions come to mind. Firstly, is it in keeping with the independence of the judiciary for judges to be seen to accept such government appointments while retaining their judicial status and privileges? Secondly, does it take judges away from the performance of strictly judicial work for which there is a lack of suitable people, thus adding to delays in having matters heard by the courts? Thirdly, can it lend a false image of judicial independence and impartiality to matters that are politically controversial and partisan in nature? The judges of the Victorian Supreme Court take a very strict view of this matter. On 14 August 1923 Chief Justice W. H. Irvine wrote to the Victorian Government on behalf of the Supreme Court of Victoria in the following terms: 
The duty of His Majesty's Judges is to hear and determine issues of fact and of law arising between the King and a subject, or between a subject and a subject presented in a form enabling judgment to be passed upon them, and when passed to be enforced by a process of law. There begins and ends the function of the Judiciary. 
Apart from some diversion from the principle in the early 1950s the Victorian Supreme Court has adhered to this view far more strictly than any other Bench in Australia. 
A quick review of the statutory and Executive positions presently held by judges in the Commonwealth produces a list of more than 20 boards and tribunals involving about 30 judges. The degree of involvement by individual judges varies from unpaid part time attendance at occasional meetings to full time salaried positions. No one can reasonably object to three judges of the Family Court of Australia being members of the Family Law Council. Similarly it is appropriate to have two judges on the Law Reform Commission. It also seems to be appropriate to have a judge as Royal Commissioner for the inquiry into drugs as certain matters of law and liability to prosecution may have to be considered with due judicial care. 
However, it is not obvious that a judge should be appointed Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear matters or as Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, or a member of boards such as the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped. It cannot be argued that these positions require the skill and judicial training of a judge. Indeed it may be argued that in some cases governments are using the status and prestige of the judiciary to lend legitimacy to actions of the Executive arm of government. The sight of Justice Elizabeth Evatt on  Monday Conference  some months ago defending aspects of the report of the Royal Commission into Human Relationships brought to mind a further quote from Chief Justice Irvine's letter to the Victorian Government. He wrote: 
Parliament, supported by a wise public opinion, has jealously guarded the Bench from the danger of being drawn into the region of political controversy. 
Justice Elizabeth Evatt, of course, was a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission when she was appointed  Chairman  of the Royal Commission, but by the time the report was presented she was Chief Judge of the Family Court of Australia. Whatever one might think about the findings of the Royal Commission, I certainly felt some disquiet at the sight of a senior member of the judiciary publicly arguing matters that were in the realm of social philosophy rather than legal principle. Let me add that I believe it would be desirable for judges to involve themselves far more in public debate about the interpretation of law and the functioning of our judicial system. However, we must give careful attention as members of parliament to any attempt by the Executive to use the status and prestige of the judiciary in support of its partisan political objectives. I hope that members of the judiciary will also be careful not to accept positions which appear to compromise their independence. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the work experience plan conducted by the Victorian Government since 1974 under which school students work in industry for a short period as an integral part of their education. 
Has his attention also been drawn to comments by the Victorian Minister for Social Welfare, the Honourable Brian Dixon, M.P., that the scheme suffers from lack of recognition under Federal awards which could make employers liable to pay full award rates to students participating in the scheme; if so, have any steps been taken to overcome this difficulty. 
What consideration has been given to participation by Commonwealth Government departments and agencies in the scheme by providing opportunities within their Victorian establishments for this work experience. 
-The House is debating a Bill to amend the Trade Union Training Authority Act, and that Bill is designed to achieve a more integrated management structure and greater involvement by a broader crosssection of the trade union movement in the affairs of the Trade Union Training Authority. I wish to deal briefly with a point which was made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  shortly before he resumed his seat. 
-He did try to make a point. I heard him complain about the fact that the Bill contained a provision under which the Minister could require a list of names from the peak councils of the trade union movement- a list containing twice the number of names needed for appointment- so that he could select from that list submitted to him the people  to be  appointed. I point out to the honourable member, as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  pointed out while the honourable member for Burke was speaking, that we got that idea from the Labor Government when it put a similar provision into the structure of the Australian Wool Corporation. We thought that it was a good idea, that it had some merit. We picked it up and we included that idea in the structure of the Trade Union Training Authority. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  led for the Opposition. He said that the Government was not in touch with the trade unions on this matter of trade union training and that in fact there had been no complaints about the efficiency of the administration of the Trade Union Training Authority. All I can say is that members of the Opposition obviously are people not in touch with the trade unions on this issue. Last year I took the opportunity of visiting the Clyde Cameron College in the course of its construction at Wodonga. I also visited the Melbourne centre of the Trade Union Training Authority. I spoke to a number of people such as the Director of the Clyde Cameron College, a number of members of the Australian Council for Union Training, and a number of trade union officials and employer representatives about their proposals for the Authority. Indeed, there were a number of complaints about the Trade Union Training Authority as it is presently structured. I do not want to say that the Trade Union Training Authority as it is presently structured is completely wrong. 
I shall go on to list some of those objections. In fact, one of the  mapx  objections that we had from both employer representatives and from a number of trade union officials was that there was a fragmentation in the Trade Union Trading Authority between the States. In certain States a particular group in the trade union movement would take control of the Council in that State and, rightly or wrongly, other trade unions in that State would believe that the courses were being run by union groups hostile to their interests. So in Victoria a number of right wing union officials would say quite frankly that they would not send their members to any TUTA courses because to do so would be to hand those people into the arms of the left wing. On the other hand, in Tasmania, left wing union officials would say: 'Look, the courses in this State are being run by dreadful people like Harradine and Tony Macken, that right wing lawyer who advises some right wing unions, and we wouldn't send any of our people along to courses being run by people like that '. 
I put it to the House that that is not in the best interests of trade union training. We want a broad involvement of all trade unionists in the courses so that there is a proper cross-fertilisation of ideas in each State. We do not want a fragmentation in the States in terms of particular ideological groupings. We want them all involved in the courses. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide complained about the employer representatives being on the Board and on the Council in this new structure provided for in the Bill. There are, of course, a number of industrial awards which contain provisions for paid leave to allow people to undertake trade union training. Indeed, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide himself pointed out, most people in attendance at TUTA courses are being paid by their employers while they are training at the TUTA courses. I think therefore that it is appropriate that there be some representation- and it is only 'some' representationfrom employer groups on the executive board and on the councils of the Trade Union Training Authority, at both Federal and State levels. 
I mentioned previously that there was some fragmentation between the States. The honourable member for Port Adelaide spoke about the need for maximum involvement of trade unionists. In that I agree. He also said that all significant unions have been involved in the TUTA. As I have pointed out, it may be true that all significant unions in one State or another have been involved, but certainly within individual States there is a great deal of suspicion on the part of significant unions about the groups that they believe are in charge of the Authority in their State. The honourable member for Port Adelaide also invoked the views of employers who, he said, supported the present structure. I think he conveniently forgot that the theme of many employer submissions to the committee of inquiry was along the lines of including employer representatives on courses. I do not agree with those submissions; I agree that there is a need for an independent trade union training authority which gives training to trade unionists specifically in trade union matters. It is not correct, therefore, for the honourable member for Port Adelaide to invoke the views of employers in support of the present structure. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide is so confident of the views of employers in support of the Trade Union Training Authority, what objection could he possibly have to formal employer representation on the executive board and on the councils of the Authority. 
I wish to deal with this suggestion that was put to me by a number of employers that there ought to be people nominated by the employers themselves taking pan in various courses run by the Trade Union Training Authority. A suggestion was put that young industrial officers, supervisors and so on could perhaps take part in these courses and benefit from them. Moreover, it was suggested that there would be an exchange of views within the context of those courses between union members and certain people from the management of various companies. Whilst there is some attraction in that view, I should like to put the view that there ought to be an independent trade union training authority offering courses and training basically for trade unionists because of the particular needs of the trade union movement. I think it would be unfortunate if, on many of the courses, there was a situation where people who were being given a basic grounding in trade union organisation and in industrial relations were thrown into the same tutorial room, say, as a young industrial officer who had his Bachelor of Commerce degree or his Bachelor of Law Degree and a couple of years experience in a company. I am talking about a fairly articulate fellow who has been educated in a different way and who perhaps is able to articulate his views to a greater extent than the person who is taken from the factory floor by his union and given a responsibility in the trade union of that factory. I think it is important for people at the grass roots level of trade unions to be able to develop their confidence, to be able to develop their knowledge of trade union operations and to develop a technique in conducting basic negotiations with management on things like the allocation of overtime-simple matters like that, that arise on a regular basis in many industrial concerns. In that context, it would be inappropriate, I believe, to have representatives of employers present on those courses. However, I believe that there is a separate need for representatives of employers to have a lot more traimng in trade union operations and in industrial relations than they presently have. It is my view that one of the most neglected areas in the industrial world in Australia is the training at the foreman/supervisor level of management. In fact many industrial relations probelms arise, I believe, because foremen and supervisors do not have a proper knowledge of the workings of trade unions. They often have not even been trained properly in man management before they are promoted from the factory floor to those first level management positions. Frankly, they are often badly treated by both employers and trade unions alike. That is one reason why one trade union is having a great deal of success in unionising foremen in many industrial concerns at present. 
I agree; management certainly needs training. Whilst it can be pointed out that many business administration courses are available, such as those at the Administrative Staff College at Mt Eliza and at universities by way of master of business administration courses, those business administration courses usually do not include much in the way of real, practical industrial relations training. They are quite often involved with fairly esoteric concepts of management- management by objectives, financial control and so on. They do not deal very basically with the structure of trade unions in this country and the structure of our conciliation and arbitration system and how it works. So there are some very fundamental needs on the management or employer side as far as trade union training and industrial relations training are concerned. As I have said, I do not believe that that ought to be incorporated in toto with the sort of training offered by the Trade Union Training Authority. The Authority can play a role in taking part in co-operative courses, perhaps with technical and further education institutions, to involve employers in those sorts of courses. 
Yes, joint courses, with both trade unions and employer representatives involved. But I do not believe that the very basic need for more employer traimng in this area ought to be used as an excuse for breaking down TUTA courses and involving employer representatives in every conceivable kind of TUTA course. We must preserve the integrity of those TUTA courses. 
I shall give a little bit of background to the way in which trade union training developed in this country as I see it. One of the problems before the Trade Union Training Authority was established was that there was a lack of any particular institution which gave a sufficiently high priority to trade union training. Indeed, some of the trade unionists who were themselves involved in the early attempts to get trade union training underway have told me of attempts to book facilities, for example, at various tertiary institutions. Both in that regard and just in attempts to lit into the timetable of other institutions which had other priorities, they were always treated like second-rate citizens. Of course the other courses which those institutions were set up to provide had the first priority and trade unions and trade union organisations wanting to offer training courses had to fit in with the requirements of those other institutions. Indeed, many trade unionists felt a little bit out of place if they went along to a university lecture theatre or to a university library to undertake their training there. There needed to be an environment in which they felt at home and in which they felt they could study in a relaxed way. 
So I believe that the need for an institution such as the Clyde Cameron College is also very apparent. I was pleased to look through it and see the facilities which it was developing. Some would say- and indeed this has been said to me- that the cost of that institution is excessive, having in mind the number of places that it is able to offer. But one must take into account the fact that it is a residential college which has to provide facilities for the people who are away from home. It has to provide a wide range of courses for a large number of people coming to the college to attend short courses ranging from a few days to a few weeks. So it is not as though we have a facility which costs, I think, around $7m or $8m if we include the value of the land on which it is built, merely for the 100 or so people who can take part in courses at any one time. Many thousands of people will move through that College in the course of a year as various training courses are carried out. There is a need for the Clyde Cameron College, a separate institution which the trade union movement can regard as existing primarily to service its own training needs. Therefore, I welcome the 
Government's attempts to update the management structure and give it a greater degree of integration and better control and also to redefine the meaning of trade union training. 
In line with what I said earlier, there was a great deal of suspicion on the part of some trade union officials and many employers that the broad definition of trade union training contained in the existing Act might allow a number of courses of a very broad ideological nature to be introduced into the trade union training syllabus. To overcome that possible undesirable development- some would say that it actually occurred in a number of courses but I cannot speak with first hand experience of that- the definition of trade union training has been somewhat restricted. I believe that is a valuable step which cannot really be decried by anyone in this House. It surely will not restrict any legitimate aspect of trade union training which anyone would openly wish to propound as being the responsibility of the trade union training authority. I believe that this Bill deserves the support of the House. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to Press reports concerning the establishment in Australia of an extremist and racist organisation known as the National Front which is calling for a policy of apartheid or separate development for Aborigines? Can the Minister say whether any such policy will be implemented by the Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) When was the interdepartmental working party established to examine the possible issue of licences and collection of royalties for the use of Aboriginal motifs and folklore in the production of such items as decorative objects and souvenirs. 
Which departments and other bodies are represented on the working party. 
When will the working party report to the Government on the matter. 
-Does the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs recall my question without notice on 1 3 April this year concerning the role of the Uniting Church in Australia in the new local government arrangements applying to the Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island? Does he recall, in reply, giving an assurance that as self-managing authorities, the communities would be in a position to seek the assistance of whomever they want? In the light of the forcible ejection of advisors from a recent meeting between the Queensland Premier and the Aurukun Council, can he say whether the Queensland Government is adhering to the original agreement? Is the Minister now in a position to repeat his assurance that the communities will be self-managing authorities and be able to seek the assistance of whomever they want? 
I wish to raise a grievance about a leaflet which is circulating in some areas and which is put out by the Immigration Control Association. On its cover appears the title 'For Your Children's Sake- The Asian Invasion Must Stop'. This is an inaccurate and crude attempt to promote racial hatred and community tension. The publication is almost so puerile that it is not worth commenting on, but I must resist the temptation to ignore it because its contents are reminiscent of the softening-up which was undertaken in Nazi Germany against the Jews before the holocaust took place. I think we must lay to rest a number of the inaccurate statements- one must think deliberately inaccurate statements- contained in this publication and a number of others put out by the Association. I quote the following statement from the leaflet as my first example: 
Australian soldiers fought and died in New Guinea to keep the Asian invader from our shores, but these men - 
There are arrows pointing to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)-  these men- these politicians- afraid of offending the United Nations are now breaking faith with those who died and suffered to keep Asian invaders out of Australia. 
They are actually encouraging the new (peaceful) Asian invasion threatening to overwhelm us. 
I think that is a travesty of what Australian servicemen fought and died for. They fought and died to keep Australia a free and democratic country, and part of that freedom and that democratic process is the right to decide what sort of immigration policy we should have and what sort of criteria should be administered. 
Indeed, that is quite true, as the honourable member for Robertson has pointed out. Most of our neighbouring countries in Asia were our allies during the last war. That is another inaccuracy in the statements in the leaflet. As far as the attitude of servicemen is concerned, I could take the author of this piece of paper along to Returned Services League clubs in my electorate where he would find very proud and very active members of the clubs who are themselves of Asian origin and are very well accepted in the RSL clubs. 
Let me move on to something else in this publication. Reference is made to an intake of Asians of up to 30,000 a year taking the jobs of our 400,000 unemployed. Firstly, I would like to comment on the figure of 30,000 a year quoted in the publication. I have tried to do a little bit of research on it to find out on what it is based. I can assume only that the figure is based on a definition of non-Europeans in a very strict sense and that the 30,000 includes not only Asians but nonEuropeans such as Turks and Lebanese. I ask: Who could be more European in many senses than the Christian Lebanese who have been coming into Australia as a result of the upheavals in their country? The very basis of the figuring is highly suspect, to put it politely. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Cunningham is supporting the Immigration Control Association. If that is his view, I would like to hear him state it. The publication states that these people are taking the jobs of our 400,000 unemployed. This is a typical tactic of using racial slurs to draw attention away from other problems or to find scapegoats for problems in Australia. It ignores, the fact that there are strict criteria for the entry of most migrants into Australia and that one of the strictest of those criteria relates to the occupational and training background which people must have before they are approved for permanent residence in this country. There are, of course, relaxed criteria relating to the intakes of refugees whom we accept from countries facing enormous internal upheavals which produce large numbers of stateless people, but those intakes are judged according to Australia's ability to absorb the people involved. I do not believe that in the aggregate they produce any major problem, certainly with respect to the total unemployment problem in Australia. My experience of those people is that they are readily integrated into the work force and become very respected and valued employees. 
The leaflet also makes some comparisons with other countries. I do not have the time to go through every line of this leaflet, but in one statement it is said that in South Africa there are a number of Asian people and that there are 750,000 unassimilable people who are causing immense problems. Of course they are unassimilable in that country because the laws prevent them from being assimilated in South Africa. I do not think it is reasonable therefore for the author of this leaflet to blame the people concerned for the laws of the country in which they are situated. But let me go on. The leaflet talks about the problems that have been experienced in Great Britain. Apart from the fact that I think the leaflet exaggerates the problems in Great Britain, I point out that Australia in the formulation of its immigration policies has always tried to learn from the experiences of other countries. 
One of the aims of our pattern of immigration is to try to ensure that we do not have developing in particular areas under-privileged enclaves of people who form a problem in an area. For example, we have had Indo-Chinese refugees coming through the Eastbridge hostel in Nunawading and the people from that hostel have spread out into the rest of the community. It is an area which I previously represented,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but which you now represent following the redistribution. I am sure you will be aware of the extent to which those people are accepted in the local community. One only has to speak to the staff of the Mitcham high school and the Nunawading South primary school to learn how well the Indo-Chinese refugees have been accepted by the staff and by the other children in the schools. One only has to speak to employers to understand how much value they place on the contribution made by refugees to their work force. One only has to speak to the local church organisations, particularly those associated with St John's Catholic Church in Mitcham, which have had a great deal to do with the settlement of these people to know how well they have been accepted as friends and neighbours in that area. This leaflet completely misunderstands- one can only assume deliberately- the whole nature of the contribution these people are making to Australian society. 
There is room for sensible debate about immigration policies in this country. Late last session the Minister released new guidelines which he firmly and fairly administers. There is always room for debate about the exact nature of those guidelines, and I know that I and other honourable members present continually make representations to the Minister about particular people in whom we have an interest and about aspects of the guidelines that we think could be changed. But to try to base an attitude towards immigration on the sort of puerile propaganda contained in this type of leaflet does not do any good for the Australian community. It will only serve to exacerbate any tensions that might be latent in any situation. It will only serve to use these people as a scapegoat for problems which we have in Australia and which we must face up to as Australians. I appeal to members of the House to make sure that the tactic of the 'big lie' involved in the content of this publication is not successful and has no impact on the Australian community. 
I wish to refer to some remarks which were made by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  last Thursday in the grievance debate when he spoke about the role of civil marriage celebrants in our community. He had some rather critical things to say. I want to put another point of view, not necessarily in direct criticism of the points of view which he expressed. In his speech he started by making a number of valid points. He questioned aspects of the manner in which civil celebrants are appointed and their continued authorisation. He drew attention to the question of whether there was some need for a review of their functions from time to time. But then he went on to make some points which I think were not as valid. For example, he quoted from a statement which indicated that the system of appointment of civil celebrants started in 1973. That is not correct. Before the Australian Labor Party Government expanded the system a limited number of civil celebrants were appointed from organisations such as the Rationalists' Society and the Humanist Society to cater for the needs of members of those organisations. Of course the system was expanded substantially in 1973. My colleague went on to say that civil celebrants were people: 
. who have turned this business into a corruption of our moral and spiritual values as represented through what I would regard as the legitimate forms- the churches of this country. 
He then went on to make some remarks about pagan ceremonies' conducted by civil celebrants. I think it is worth noting that a number of clergy in Australia now praise the role of civil celebrants because they offer an avenue to which people can be referred from the churches. Clergymen find that they are faced with people who are just turning up to the church in order to do the right thing, to get married in a church, when in fact they have no long-term affiliation with that church. I have noted comments from time to time from clergy who have made the point that they find it useful to have civil celebrants to fill this need in our community. One can then question whether civil marriage celebrants ought to expand their role and perform other types of services, for example, funeral services. It should be noted that not all civil celebrants feel able to carry out funeral services, although a number of them do. However, there are a number of other people in the community who offer their services. They are not authorised civil marriage celebrants but they do have a reputation for being able to carry out the functions needed for a funeral service, and I think that is a legitimate role in our society. One does not have to observe particular religious practices to believe that a funeral service has a legitimate role in the expression of the grief of a family on the death of a member of the family. As I understand it, there are some journalists who offer their services in this role. They have interviewing skills, a knowledge of literature, and so on, and they can bring those skills to bear in performing an appropriate ceremony which expresses the grief of the family at that time. 
I do have some difficulty in my own mind with the concept of a naming ceremony. I understand that from time to time people actually come to civil marriage celebrants and ask for their children to be christened. They even want godparents to be appointed at the christening ceremony. Of course, by making that sort of request they are indicating a confusion in their minds about the real meaning of a christening in a church environment. Nonetheless, if people feel some cultural need to have a ceremony to accept a child into the family and formally give it a name, I do not see why that service should be denied to them. Certainly there are some aspects we ought to look at, and I refer to the method of appointment of civil marriage celebrants and the question of whether the availability of such appointments ought to be made known by public advertisement rather than being available just to those in the know. Perhaps we also ought to look at methods of ensuring that people who are authorised as civil celebrants make themselves available to the public. 
I rise to support the Budget which was brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 15 August and also to comment specifically on some aspects of it which I believe deserve further development in future Budgets. It is a Budget of responsibility and restraint. Having used the word 'restraint', let me firstly comment on some of the allegations which have been made, mostly by politically motivated people, about cutbacks in the Budget. Despite the fact that the Treasurer and the Government as a whole have exercised restraint in the construction of the Budget, there has still been a 7.7 per cent increase in expenditure in this financial year compared with last financial year. 
Indeed that is the smallest increase that we have had in any Budget for 10 years but it is still a little greater than the expected rate of inflation over the forthcoming year. So it represents a small real increase. I think that the Australian public realises that we cannot go on year after year having increases in the Budget of 20 per cent, 30 per cent and even 46 per cent, which was the increase in one year during the Whitlam regime. I believe that the public has come to expect that this Government will adopt a responsible attitude and will accept the need for restraint in increases in government expenditure. 
Let me comment on one particular category of Budget expenditure, namely, social security and welfare. Again, despite the cries that we have heard about cutbacks in social welfare expenditure, it must be pointed out that this area of the Budget has been the subject of a 7 per cent increase in expenditure in this financial year. There has been some readjustment of priorities to direct the available funds into areas of greatest need. In this respect I would like to comment specifically on the allocations made available for assistance to handicapped persons. It has always struck me as being an anomaly in our society that people who have children who are handicapped, physically or mentally, have had to spend a disproportionate amount of their time raising funds through voluntary organisations and have had to spend a disproportionate amount of their income just to provide the basic necessities for those handicapped children. 
On the other hand, many other people who have children with normal abilities, with all their faculties, have had virtually everything provided for them in our system, even up to the doctor of philosophy level. Therefore I believe that the Budget is quite correct in directing a much greater share of available resources towards assistance for handicapped persons. For example, there will be a significant increase in expenditure for the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. This service provides a comprehensive program of medical, social, educational and vocational rehabilitation. Last year $15m was spent on this program; in the current financial year $ 18.3m has been provided. The special needs of handicapped students also have been recognised by extending the eligibility for the handicapped child 's allowance to cover students aged 1 6 to 2 5 years of age who are not in receipt of an invalid pension. 
Furthermore, and most significantly, assistance to organisations providing facilities for handicapped persons has been increased substantially on the level of assistance given in the previous year. This year $52m has been provided in the Budget under the handicapped persons assistance scheme, compared with $3 7.9m last year. I am hopeful that the Monkami Centre for the Intellectually Handicapped in Croydon in my electorate will benefit in the near future from this sort of expansion in expenditure in this area. The Handicapped Persons Assistance Act assists eligible organisations to establish sheltered workshops, activity, therapy and training centres and residential accommodation for handicapped children and adults. The Monkami Centre to which I referred presently has an application with the Department of Social Security for a subsidy for the construction of further hostel accommodation which is very much needed in the area. 
I wish to point also to the need to extend eligibility for the domiciliary nursing care benefit. I was disappointed that this was not included in the Budget. I strongly recommend to the Treasurer and the Government that it should certainly be included in next year's Budget, if action is not taken before. The purpose of the domiciliary nursing care benefit is to enable people of at least 65 years of age, who are suffering from an illness or infirmity, to be looked after in their own homes. They are people whose condition would justify their admission to a nursing home in normal circumstances. In recognition of the fact that the age limit excludes many deserving cases, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech for the 1977 Federal election campaign announced the Government's intention to reduce the qualifying age limit from 65 to 16 years of age. As I mentioned earlier, I deeply regret that the Government did not see itself able to include this matter in the present Budget. 
I have an interest in it because of the existence in my electorate of the Yarra Me Centre for Parapelgics and Quadriplegics, which was established about two years ago with the assistance of a $4 for $ 1 grant under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. It is a necessary facility and it provides accommodation on both a permanent and a short term basis for quadriplegics and paraplegics. But some people prefer to look after their quadriplegic and paraplegic relatives at home, at enormous personal expense and inconvenience to their family life. If they wish to do this, they should be encouraged and assisted to do so. Indeed they are saving the public purse thousands of dollars which would be spent if the people concerned had to be institutionalised. Therefore the reduction in the age limit from 65 to 16 years of age for the domiciliary nursing care benefit would encourage and assist a number of such familities to look after their stricken relatives at home. I again urge the Government to take steps to introduce this extended benefit, if possible before the next Budget. 
One other area of the Budget which I believe needs a little further attention is the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act which provides an excellent program for the construction of homes for elderly people. One of the problems that we are now facing in our community is that many of the migrant groups which came to Australia in large numbers in the late 1940s and early 1950s have a great proportion of their population moving into retirement age. Because of their association with those ethnic communities, they have not necessarily had a priority booking for the Methodist or the Anglican homes for the aged or other homes which have been established with assistance from this Act. So a need has developed in our community to pay some particular attention to the requirements of the elderly members of various ethnic communities because some of them are missing out on accommodation for which other members of the Australian community qualify. 
With that point in mind, a number of ethnic organisations have become very active in raising funds for elderly citizens' homes and are seeking assistance under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act. For example, I refer to the Australian Greek Society for the Care of the Elderly. I attended a fund raising function of this organisation on behalf of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  where the need for this type of facility for elderly members of the Greek community in Victoria was pointed out to me. The organisation is doing very worthwhile work and I hope that it will be given an appropriate place in the priority listings for future approvals for new projects. 
Another organisation which is concerned with this issue is the Latvian Friendly Society which is seeking to establish a home for its elderly members- not necessarily Latvians, by the way, but anyone who cares to join- in Hurstbridge in my electorate. Some planning problems are involved. There are some problems with the local council, which I will not go into here. I have been impressed with the quality of the submission which the Society has made, a copy of which I have with me, and the thought that has gone into it in meeting this very basic need. I think most honourable members will appreciate that the members of the Latvian community in Australia, by and large, came to Australia in the late 1940s and early 1950s in rather large numbers. Therefore a very substantial proportion of that community would now be in their retirement years. 
I want to move from the subject of social security to the subject of defence. This may seem to be rather a jump but I want to comment on one aspect of the Budget which disturbs me a little. Defence in my view is the primary responsibility of a Commonwealth government. After all, no other level of government can attend to defence and we cannot expect private enterprise to attend to the defence needs of Australia. There has been a 5.2 per cent increase in defence expenditure in the Budget. Whilst this increase is sufficient to keep pace with inflation and to provide for some new capital equipment I believe that as a community we are becoming more aware of Australia's position in the world and the greater need we have to attend to our own defence needs. 
A number of incidents over the last two or three years has drawn the Australian community's attention to the defence needs of this country. For instance, I refer to the incident involving a drug runner who came into the north of Australia and was pursued by a Royal Austraiian Air Force Hercules aircraft. There have been other incursions of one sort or another which have not necessarily in themselves had a defence significance. However, the fact that those incursions have occurred has drawn to the public's attention the need for Australia to be able to defend her own borders to a greater extent than is now possible. The development of off-shore oil and gas facilities has also drawn attention to this need. There have been reports in the Press of problems very near to Australia's borders. For example, there have been problems in East Timor. We have also read recent reports about activity along the border between Irian Jaya and Papua New Guinea. I think that many of the reports on that latter matter are in fact exaggerated. But the fact that these problems exist I think is bringing home to the Austraiian people an appreciation of the need for us to make much greater provision to attend to our own defence needs. 
People appreciate the need for northern surveillance. The Australian Coastal Surveillance Organisation has been established. This organisation will draw together Commonwealth government and other government agencies and indeed private agencies where their co-operation is required to provide a focal point for surveillance activities. I notice that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  recently circulated a brochure giving details of how to contact this organisation. 
The Government has provided additional funds for the chartering of privately owned aircraft to assist in surveillance activities. I believe that in the longer term we will need to create in Australia something along the lines of an Australian coastguard. I do not believe that it is a proper function of the defence forces of this country to attend specifically to surveillance needs. For one thing, the equipment used by our defence forces is of a high technology nature and is very expensive and its use for lower level surveillance activities is not justified. Moreover, the training of members of the Defence Force is different from the training which is required of people who are fundamentally performing a police role. It has been put to me by someone who has been involved in Defence Force training that our defence forces are trained to some extent to use the maximum force to achieve an objective as quickly as possible with maximum casualties to the other side and minimum casualties to our own side. On the other hand, the emphasis of the training which members of police forces receive is directed towards using minimum force and usually great patience to achieve an objective with minimum injury to both the accused and the community as a whole. Therefore to throw members of the defence forces, who have received entirely different training, into a police role could possibly have some unfortunate consequences. Also, from a civil liberties point of view I do not think it would be wise to allow members of our defence forces to be thrown into a situation where they may be required to apprehend people on the grounds of an alleged breach of civil law and where they may become used to that type of activity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen reports that H. J. Heinz and Co. Ltd recently has granted wage increases in the form of increased overaward payments to a large number of its employees? Can the Minister give any further information about the payments? What effects will increases of this nature have on employment opportunities? How does the action by the Heinz company accord with Government wages policy? 
-I think that we are all a little tired of the total obsession of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  (Quorum formed).  In the 1978-79 Budget a total of $120m has been allocated for Aboriginal affairs, and it is worth noting that this represents a 9. 1 per cent increase over last financial year in total expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. I think we all ought to compliment the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for being able to achieve that result in what were undoubtedly very tight Budget discussions in Cabinet. It is pleasing to see that the Government has given this high degree of priority to Aboriginal affairs. 
I want to comment on just a few items in that total expenditure to indicate how they support some of the developments in government policy with respect to Aboriginal affairs. For example, there is one rather small but significant item in terms of its meaning for policy under the heading of 'Training'.  (Quorum formed).  A total of $2.5m has been earmarked for specific training programs, and of that amount $800,000 has been allocated to new projects. This year these training items have been isolated from general functional areas such as health, education and employment. This has been done so that the separate allocation can be identified and shown to be the commencement of a special effort in this area to equip Aborigines with the management and other skills necessary to underwrite the Government's policy of self-management. Indeed, support for that policy of selfmanagement with adequate training opportunities is most important. There is a need in many Aboriginal communities to re-establish confidence and self-respect in relation to their own identity and their own ability to make decisions and to occupy an equal place and take an equal part in the Australian community. 
I want to mention specifically the expenditure that will be allocated for employment activities. Almost $7m will be provided for the employment of Aborigines, particularly those in remote areas. One can refer specifically to the Community Development Employment Scheme, which last year began as a pilot project and which this year will be continued and expanded to include a new project at Papunya. This will bring to 776 the total number of Aborigines employed under the scheme. In addition, nearly half of the total allocation for employment activities will provide additional employment opportunities for 650 Aborigines through special work projects in all States. I want to comment on some of the problems that will face the Government in the future in respect of the provision of employment opportunities for Aborigines. It is a long term problem because in many of the more isolated rural areas where Aborigines traditionally live there has been a decline in recent years in traditional forms of employment. In particular I refer to the situation with respect to employment on pastoral properties, a standard form of employment for Aborigines in years gone by. With a series of rural recessions, with the advent of greater mechanisation in farm work and pastoral activities, and also having regard to increases in award wage rates, many of the pastoral managers in these areas find it impossible to continue to employ any labour at all, and in particular Aboriginal labour. This has some social effects as well as economic effects.  (Quorum formed).  One cannot but notice that even after the ringing of the bells for the quorum there are only three Opposition members sitting in the chamber. On the other hand, the Government benches are packed with members who are taking a great interest in this debate. 
Before I was rudely interrupted I was making the point that the decline in employment in pastoral industries for Aboriginal people has had both economic and social effects. There has been the economic effect of their being denied wages. There has been the social effect that accompanied the increase in unemployment amongst Aboriginal communities. One has to look at the nature of a number of Aboriginal communities in outback areas and wonder about their long term economic viability. In this respect, therefore, a number of Aboriginal communities are looking forward to the commencement of mining activities as a way of providing the revenue by which they can remain economically viable. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the Sydney Morning Herald of Saturday, 2 September of this year an advertisement appeared in the name of Tooheys Limited for an accounts payable clerk. This advertisement had the Tooheys Limited logo on it and, after describing the position and the type of person required, it stated that applications might be made by telephoning a named person on a certain telephone number after 9 a.m. On telephoning that number one discovers that it is an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service, but that is not stated in the advertisement. I will quote from a New South Wales Act, the Industrial Arbitration (Employment Agencies) Act of 1975- which relates to the licensing and regulating of private employment agencies. Under the heading ' Offences by licensees' the relevant section of the Act says: 
A licensee who- advertises or causes to be advertised, or publishes or causes to be published, any matter that, by its tenor, suggests, implies or infers that the matter is not advertised or published by or on behalf of a private employment agency; is guilty of an offence and liable to a penalty not exceeding $500. 
In other words, if a private employment agency inserted an advertisement in exactly the same terms as this one apparently inserted by the Commonwealth Employment Service, the private employment agency would be guilty of an offence punishable by a fine of $500. This points to the excessively vigorous marketing policy, if I might put it that way, of some sections of the Commonwealth Employment Service and of the Professional Employment Office in particular in the way in which they are seeking to go into areas of job placement which are being adequately catered for by commercial agencies. There seems no justification to me for the Professional Employment Office seeking to obtain vacancies from employers, advertising those vacancies on behalf of the employers and trying to entice presently employed people away from their jobs to apply for those vacancies. This is going well beyond the role of trying to find positions for unemployed persons or trying to act as a labour exchange in areas that are not necessarily well served by private employment agencies. But surely in a time when there are complaints in the Public Service about staff ceilings it seems a waste of resources to use those staff to carry out functions which can be and are being adequately catered for by private employment agencies in the economy. It seems to be a waste of the Commonwealth Employment Service resources to extend the activities of the CES into that sort of area. I think that the responsible Minister ought to take very vigorous action to ensure that the resources of the Commonwealth Employment Service are used to the best advantage in areas that cannot be catered for by private agencies. 
I am also disturbed by reports that I have received of the attitude of non-co-operation of some Commonwealth Employment Service officers with respect to their dealings with private employment agencies. It is common for them to plead that their obligations under International Labour Organisation Convention No. 88 prevent them from having any dealings with agencies which charge a fee for their service. I have read that particular Convention in detail and, whilst it is possible to place a very restrictive interpretation on it, it is also possible to place a very open and co-operative interpretation on it, if one were so inclined. Surely the major aim is to see that people are suitably placed in employment and if a bit of co-operation in talking about the available vacancies can be achieved between private employment agencies and the Commonwealth Employment Service, that is all to the good and is fully consistent with the proper aims and objectives of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I believe that the responsible Minister ought to take strong action to ensure that the Commonwealth Employment Service plays a proper and co-operative role in the economy and takes the opportunity to work with private employment agencies where it can to see that people are suitably placed. 
-I support the proposed expenditure for the defence of Australia but recommend that it be increased. In Australia at present there is a developing consciousness of our defence needs. People are becoming more and more concerned about defence matters. Some of their concern has arisen from events which are not specifically related to defence, such as the incursions that have occurred to the north of Australia, the drug runner who came into Australia and was pursued by a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules aircraft, and small vessels of a type that do not pose any defence threat coming to Australia. These events have pointed out in the minds of Australians the defence needs of this country and particularly the need for surveillance of our coastline and surrounding waters. 
I commented on the need for greater surveillance activity in my earlier speech in the Budget debate. I spoke about the need in the immediate term to develop a specialised coastguard organisation which could fulfil that role. I do not believe that it would be an appropriate role for our defence forces. There are many things which a surveillance organisation would be called upon to do which do not require the level of equipment sophistication that is needed by our defence forces in their specific defence role. There are a number of police-type activities required in surveillance which, I believe, it would be unwise to hand over to defence personnel. So, my view is that a coastguard organisation is the type of operation we should be working towards for the surveillance of our coastline. Such an organisation would have defence significance and that is why I mention it in the context of the estimates for the Department of Defence. A coastguard operation, with personnel properly trained and equipped, would be a very valuable reserve or back-up force in any defence emergency. It could be very quickly upgraded for a specific defence role if need be. So, from that defence point of view, I believe that a coastguard organisation will be very desirable in this country in the near future. 
I make some comments about defence policy. At present the defence policy of this country is bogged down. I cannot see that any clear strategic assessments and strategic objectives are being fulfilled in our defence policy. I get the impression that the Government and the Defence Department are bogged down in assessments, surveys and feasibility studies of various items of equipment- studies which have been going on in some cases for many years. One can hardly say that the five-year program set out in the 1976 Defence White Paper is proceeding full steam ahead. I echo the sentiments of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who made an excellent speech on this subject yesterday when he said that one would have expected that when that White Paper was drawn up, it would have been based on a realistic, strategic and economic assessment. If that is the case and a realistic assessment was made at that time, we can hardly say that the progress that has been made in the two years since then has matched that assessment. One wonders whether the Government and its defence advisers have come to a new assessment of our defence needs. 
In the equipment field, decisions which have been deferred repeatedly are deferred again. In addition to the TFF matter there are other matters that are awaiting some decision; whether the aircraft carrier will be replaced, trainers for the Royal Australian Air Force and trucks and artillery for the Army. Innumerable studies have been revised and revised again. This seems to have the function of keeping staff employed but it does not seem to result in any concrete decisions. The problem, as I see it, is that as all these decisions are deferred so is the final day when decisions must be made. What is likely to happen then is that either the replacement costs will be bunched into one enormous bill at one time or the Defence Force will be forcibly reduced by economic pressure from one which has a limited but useful capability at present to one which has no capability. I believe that we must start making some decisions on very important procurement matters. They are not necessarily decisions with immediate budgetary consequences but ones which can at least start the process rolling for Australian industry to gear up to the known decisions and attitudes of the Government and which can enable forces to be trained to take delivery of new equipment. 
Quite often it is said that we are too small a country to provide all the defence equipment we need. That is certainly the case. In this country we cannot produce a couple of dozen Fill bombers certainly at any reasonable price but surely, if adequate notice were given to Australian industry and proper planning and consultation were undertaken with our allies and neighbouring countries in the region as to what we can supply and what they need, Australian industry would have the capacity to plan and put forward designs which would have a reasonable chance of being accepted on any basis of international competition. As a country we must be well equipped to do those things which we may be called upon to do in the region. We certainly cannot base our defence policies, our procurement policies, on the easy assumption that any action that we take will be taken in conjuction with great and powerful allies. One has only to look at a few events which have occurred near Australia's borders in recent years to come to the firm conclusion that there may be matters that we will have to deal with ourselves. 
I do not want to suggest, from the examples I give, that I am taking sides in this debate or branding anyone as the enemy but one has only to look at the occurrences in East Timor and at some of the troubles which are occurring along the Papuan New Guinea- Irian Jaya border- let me say that I believe that many of the reports of those disturbances are highly exaggerated; nonetheless there is some basis for the disputes that are occurring there- to come to the conclusion that we are living in an unstable area of the world where we may be required to take action on our own at some stage in the quite near future. It is not a matter of saying that there is no foreseeable danger to Australia. These things can blow up at any time and we may need to take action on our own in the foreseeable future. In respect of the particular examples that I have given, we certainly cannot assume with any confidence that the United States of America or any other major power would be prepared to intervene in any problems that arose in those areas. If we feel the need to take action, if we feel the need to take a foreign policy attitude which, to be effective, needs a defence back-up force, we will need to have the capability to do it ourselves. I believe that in this respect we have to consult a great deal more than we do with our near neighbours to find out what Australian industry can provide in the way of defence equipment so that we are looking not only at providing trucks or training aircraft for the Australian forces but also at supplying equipment to friendly neighbours in our region, thereby providing the production runs which will be necessary for the development of a viable and economic Australian defence industry. Defence policy has very real economic and employment consequences for Australia and it must not be regarded as some alternative to economic development policies. Defence policy in this country is very much wrapped up with our economic development. 
-My question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs refers to the agreement which was reached in April between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments concerning a system of local government for the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I ask the Minister: What progress has been made in implementing the terms of that agreement and, in particular, can he advise when fresh elections are likely to be held for the two councils which were sacked? Further, when will a lease be produced by the Queensland Government? 
-As a member of the Legislation Committee which considered this piece of legislation, I am rather surprised at the construction which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has put on the words 'whether by reason of an allegation made to him or otherwise'. I would have thought that in a number of cases, particularly where it involves senior officers of the Public Service, the Minister may be in the best positionindeed he may be the only person in a position- to know that some action which would constitute a breach of the law in these terms has been taken by a senior public servant. Therefore to require that somebody else make an allegation to the Minister would exclude the Minister himself, who may be in the best position to know, from laying a complaint. The honourable member for Denison seems to be talking as though the Minister is in the position of complainant, judge and jury with respect to a charge that he may care to make against a senior public servant. 
The Minister is really only in the position of being a complainant. The allegation has to be heard by a board of inquiry. The Minister will have to produce the information and the evidence to back up any allegation that he might make against a senior public servant. Therein lies the protection against any abuse which a Minister may be tempted to make of this proposed new section. The Minister will have to prove the allegation he makes. It will have to be proved to the satisfaction of a board of inquiry. If after examination by a board of inquiry it is found that the Minister has made a frivolous, vexatious or intimidatory complaint without adequate evidence and basis, the Minister would wind up with a very large portion of egg on his face. That is the disincentive to any Minister abusing this provision. Therefore the words 'or otherwise' in this proposed new section allow the Minister, where he is the only person in a position to know that something has taken place and the only person in the position to provide the information, opportunity and scope to initiate action which then has to be considered by a board of inquiry. 
I wish to raise a matter which came to my attention last week while I was in Alice Springs looking at various matters concerning Aboriginal affairs. I fully realise that governments and government departments are legitimate subjects for attack and public comment but I think that some journalists who take up various issues which are critical of governments ought to do a little investigation into some of the statements and allegations which are made from time to time about departmental action. I refer to an article which appeared in the  Centralian Advocate  on Thursday of last week concerning a report on certain educational problems in the fringe Aboriginal camps around Alice Springs. The report has been submitted to the Northern Territory Innovation Committee in Education. It seeks funds for a new kind of schooling for the children of the fringe camps of Alice Springs. The article deals with the way in which this report was put together. It says that the report was sponsored by the Tangatjira Council of Fringe Camps. It goes on to state: 
The Council employed two researcher-teachers to examine the needs of the camps and assess the feasibility of the parents' proposal. 
Halfway through the project, the Department of Aboriginal  Affairs  cut off funds for the project and the teachers and a number of other assistants have completed the report unpaid. 
I repeat that there is an allegation that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs cut off funds for the project. I have inquired of the Department just what happened. It appears that the following is an accurate account of the facts: The Tangatjira Council of Fringe Camps is in fact a housing council and is funded for housing purposes. It has no funds allocated for any education or other similar projects. It is there for housing purposes. Of course there are other bodies, such as the Institute of Aboriginal Development, which have funds available for investigatory projects. That type of organisation is the appropriate avenue to which to apply for funds for some sort of survey of educational needs. 
What happened was that the Department became aware that the manager of the Tangatjira Council had hired two white Victorian school teachers to carry out this research project using funds- note this- allocated for employment of Aboriginals on housing projects. This situation had existed for several weeks before the Department sent the Council a letter asking it to desist from using those funds for a project entirely unapproved by the Department and not in line with the purposes of the original grant. As I understand it, a few weeks' leeway was given to the organisation to finish the project which the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Alice Springs now believes has been finished and was finished before the funding ended. No action was taken against the Council and no funds were withdrawn. But we have this allegation in a Press article that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs cut off funds for the project and that the teachers and a number of other assistants completed the report unpaid. That article puts the Department in a bad light. In the past, I have criticised the Department and on a particular matter I have criticised the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner). 
-Quite viciously, yes. It is appropriate to acknowledge that unjust accusations have been made. I think that, if the facts had been stated, it would have not been the Department which was shown in a bad light but the people who misused funds, intended for Aboriginal employment, in the employment of white Victorian school teachers who were apparently visiting the area. 
-There is a serious threat to the Australian community from the strike in the fuel industry. Tanker drivers employed by oil companies in Victoria went on strike on Wednesday of last week. This was purportedly in protest against the action of a Seymour oil agent who had issued a writ against members of the Transport Workers Union of Australia. Previously, these TWU members had prevented employees of the Seymour oil agent, who were also members of the TWU, from collecting fuel supplies from the Esso Australia Ltd terminal at Spotswood. The Seymour oil agent had sent his own employees- who are, I repeat, members of the TWU- to the Esso terminal to pick up supplies of oil to carry out his normal business activities. The oil agent issued writs seeking damages under section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. We know that the strike has virtually crippled Victoria by now. Only yesterday, the federal executive of the TWU called a national stoppage of tanker drivers and aircraft refuellers to commence at midnight tonight. 
Whose rights are at stake in this dispute? Firstly, the rights of the small businessman are at stake. We are not dealing here with an oil agent who is a strike breaker or with anyone who was employing scab labour. This person was employing his own labour, being good unionists, to carry out his normal business activities. If we are to apply the logic of the Transport Workers Union that only people that it deems to be appropriate union members should transport fuel supplies, we have to say that all sorts of people will be banned from a great many normal activities. What would happen if someone who was employed delivering goods from retail stores to ordinary households told his customers: 'You cannot come and pick up your own supplies. You are not allowed to make the decision as to what is best for yourself and what is the best cost structure for you to maintain. We will deliver the goods to you and you will have to maintain the cost of that particular activity'? All sorts of small businessmen would not be able to use their own labour- union labour in most cases- to pick up the supplies and the raw materials which they need for their own activities. 
As has been pointed out, this situation would apply to the greengrocers who go to a market early in the morning to pick up supplies to sell in their shops that day. So the matter involves the rights of the small businessmen of the community to carry out their normal activities. Secondly, it involves the rights of other unionists in the Transport Workers Union. This dispute does not involve unionists against nonunionists; it involves members of the Transport Workers Union against other members of the Transport Workers Union. I read with disgust in this morning's Press- I hope other honourable members also read the article with disgust- that yesterday members of the Transport Workers Union who were on strike barred from a meeting on the issue country members of the same union who wanted to turn up to express their view on the subject. As I have said, honourable members ought to be disgusted with that activity. I am sure that most Australians were disgusted with it. 
The matter affects not only the rights of other unionists in the Transport Workers Union but also the rights of other unionists throughout the country. It has been suggested that about 2,000 service station workers are in immediate danger of being stood down. Many workers throughout many industries also will be in danger of being stood down in the next few days. Certainly some workers in some industries already have been stood down and a number of others have been given notice that they will be stood down unless fuel supplies can be obtained. The rights of the public are also involved. Approximately 75 per cent of Melbourne's service stations are out of petrol as the strike enters its sixth day. Finally, and most importantly, this industrial action is prejudicial to the recovery of the economy. One wonders whether that is the real motive of those who have engineered this strike. There was a power strike in Victoria late last year. Anyone who is in touch with industries in Victoria and in other parts of the country will know that many companies and firms are just recovering from the adverse effects of that power strike. Now they are faced with this dispute which has denied them essential fuel supplies. 
Let us look at what this strike is not about. It is not a strike by employees against their employers over wages and conditions. No argument about the right to strike is involved. If so, it should not be. But the argument about the right to work is deeply involved in this whole issue. This strike does not even involve allegations by one group of employees that another employer is exploiting his workers. It is not even a demarcation dispute in the normal sense between two unions as to the members of which union should have the right to perform certain work. Those disputes are surely bad enough in themselves. This dispute involves the members of only one union- one group in one union against another group in the same union. It is an attack by certain people against the rights of other members of their union. I think that most Australian workers will make up their own minds about who are the real scabs in that situation. The issue at stake is not the right to strike; it is the right to work. No wonder many trade unionists throughout Australia are hostile about the dispute and about being done out of their jobs. 
As we have seen in the last 24 hours the dispute is now to be extended nationally. Of course, it is already affecting some other areas of the country. A difficulty is starting to emerge with regard to transport activities between Victoria and Tasmania. One wonders whether Tasmania once again will be isolated from her sister States and held to ransom by, in this case, the Victorian industrial gangsters who have such a great influence in the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party and in the ALP in general. No doubt that is why we are not hearing a peep from honourable members opposite. They did not bother to rise to support the discussion of this matter of public importance. They have certainly not made many interjections about it. It is silliness and irresponsibility on the part of the members of the national management committee of the Transport Workers Union to extend the dispute nationally. What does the dispute have to do with aircraft refuellers and tanker drivers in other parts of Australia? It has nothing to do with them in Victoria. It certainly has nothing to do with them in other parts of Australia. 
Let us look at the possible motives for the bringing on of this dispute. Firstly, it must be stated that no genuine industrial relations matters are involved. It is a strike at the lifeblood of the economy. It is not a matter concerning wages and conditions. It is a matter concerning the rights of other people in the community- people who have to observe industrial awards- to carry out their business in the way in which they see fit but within the law. It indicates an arrogant attitude on the part of some union officials that they should be above the law. This is indicated by the threats that they are making to march on the Federal Court of Australia when the action under section 4SD of the Trade Practices Act is to be heard. Surely that is an arrogant and disreputable effort to intimidate a court of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
One might assume that it is an effort to achieve a greater concentration of union power in the hands of a certain group of militant trade union leaders. Obviously the Transport Workers Union bosses fear the independence of small businessmen and contractors who are prepared to work and to continue working to keep their own businesses afloat and the lifeblood of the economy flowing. The Transport Workers Union industrial bosses do not want alternative means of carrying fuel and other essential supplies to exist in the economy so that when they snap their fingers they can bring the economy to a standstill and there will not be other alternative sources of transport to keep the wheels of industry turning. 
How has this strike been brought about on a national basis? At a telephone hook-up of the federal management committee of the Transport Workers Union it was decided to call out 2,500 tanker drivers and aircraft refuellers from midnight tonight. Are the members of the management committee of the Transport Workers Union who made a decision by way of a telephone hook-up between themselves to be regarded as being representative of the Australian work force? I suggest that if the average Australian unionists had a vote on the issue they would have a telephone hook-up for sure. They would hook up the members of the TWU management committee by the neck with telephone wires and hang them from the highest pole. That would be the attitude of the majority of the Australian trade unionists to the action of those industrial gangsters. 
As I have already noted, the Victorian members of the TWU who are responsible for this action are threatening to march on the Federal Court when the case is due to be heard. I submit that citizens are entitled to have their court actions determined on their merits, without the plaintiff and the court itself being subject to intimidation.  Mr Hodgson,  the Federal Secretary of the TWU, made no secret of his intimidatory intentions. 

 -Yes, Mr Hodgson is a member of the Labor Party, and that ought to be noted.  Mr Hodgson  said, as reported, in the  Age  this morning: 
This dispute could be settled in five minutes if  Mr Gorman  instructed his lawyer to withdraw the writs and entered into negotiations with us. 
That is an intimidatory statement if ever I heard one. Matters involving individual citizens in our community having recourse to the law to obtain redress should be decided in the courts without that sort of intimidation. At least we can compliment  Mr Hodgson  on his frankness in his attitude. He apparently believes that his union, and particularly, the actions that he cares to initiate through his union, should not be subject to the law. He apparently believes that he ought to be free of legal restraint to negotiate with small businessmen on his terms, backed as he is by the might of his union militants. I do not think that any of us are in any doubt about what is meant by negotiation with  Mr Hodgson.  If he is prepared to have his union bully boys march on the Federal Court of Australia, imagine the tactics he would use against a small company to ensure that he got his way. 
I would like to draw attention to the fact that during the course of this dispute over the last few days we have not heard any condemnatory statements from members of the Opposition. We have not heard members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party condemning this dispute in any way. They are not sticking up for the rights of small businessmen who want to carry on their activities and who want to be free to work in an honest way to secure their own livelihoods and to make the wheels of industry turn. They are not sticking up for the rights of other unionists in the Transport Workers Union who, probably traditionally have been supporters of the Australian Labor Party. But they will not be for long if this situation carries on; that is for sure. The members of the Labor Opposition are not sticking up for other unionists throughout the country- for the 2,000 service station workers who are in immediate danger of being stood down and for the many other unionists employed in all sorts of factories and undertakings throughout the country who will be in danger of being stood down if their companies cannot obtain the necessary fuel supplies to keep them going. 
The members of the Labor Opposition are not sticking up for the rights of members of the public to go about their ordinary affairs in their motor vehicles, to go about their affairs concerned with their businesses, with their family activities or for purposes of their own pleasure. The rights of the public ought to have some standing in this Parliament. Certainly, members of the Opposition are not observing them. The members of the Labor Opposition are not sticking up for the rights of all members of the Australian community to have the economy improve and to have it continue on its upswing. In fact, one has the suspicion that they are surreptitiously and secretly pleased to see some disruption to the economy so that this Government, in their eyes, will be blamed for lack of recovery. It seems in many respects that they are pleased to see this strike. We on this side of the House support the rights of individual workers and of all citizens involved in the Australian economy to be able to go about their businesses and to conduct their affairs in a normal and peaceful way, without intimidation. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that the Opposition was opposed to the use of the Trade Practices Act to settle industrial disputes. So is the Government, but it is not trying to solve industrial disputes with the Trade Practices Act and particularly with section 45D of that Act. In the case of matters arising under that section of the Act we are not dealing with genuine industrial disputes but with boycotts against a company and traders by people who are not connected with that company or those traders and are engaging in activity which is more in the way of unfair, collusive, anticompetitive activity rather than true industrial relations activity in pursuit of better wages and conditions. Indeed, section 4SD of the Act does not apply to disputes between employers and employees about wages and conditions as they are quite specifically excluded from the operations of that section. 
The Labor Party supports provisions in the Trade Practices Act which prevent companies from engaging in anti-competitive and collusive activities which damage another person's business unfairly. On this side of the House we also support such provisions in the Act, but those provisions should apply even-handedly both to companies and to associations of employees if they engage in analagous conduct. The proposed amendment before the House applies not just to unionists- as the honourable member for Port Adelaide would have you believe- but to any person acting in concert with another person in contravention of the section. It relates to a person acting in concert with another person and is not something directed against trade unionists in particular. It could be a wide range of people, acting in concert with each other to offend against this particular section of the Act. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide was at pains to try to point out in his usual blustering style that the insertion of the original section 45D into the Act had created only confusion and disruption and had not been of any assistance in the industrial arena. However, several legal practitioners in the trade practices area have confirmed to me that the existence of section 4SD in the Act has been of great use in forcing a number of illegitimate boycotts to be withdrawn. There have not been actual cases that have been brought to court in those instances but the very existence of that section has given a very valuable weapon to those who have been in the position of trying to conduct a fair and reasonable business activity and have been faced with boycott activity by groups of people who have been determined to put them out of business or to damage their business substantially. 
This proposed amendment to section 45D of the Trade Practices Act which we are debating now provides a specific prohibition on a person, in concert with another person, engaging in conduct for the purpose and having or likely to have the effect of preventing or substantially hindering a third person from engaging in interstate, territorial or overseas trade or commerce. Under the amendment before us the plaintiff will not have to prove that the purpose of the defendant's engaging in the conduct was to damage a corporation. He need prove only that one of the defendant's purposes was to prevent or substantially hinder a corporation's interstate or overseas trade or commerce. The existing section 45D relates to conduct engaged in for the purpose of or likely to have the effect of causing substantial loss or damage to the business of the corporation or of a substantial lessening of competition in any market in which the corporation is involved where the corporation supplies or acquires goods or services. It seems to me that the existing provision rests on the Commonwealth's corporations power. The new provision introduces the trade and commerce power into section 45D and to some extent therefore may offer some protection to individuals who have been wronged under the section, and not just to corporations. 
The live sheep dispute showed the need for some re-definition of section 45D to cover circumstances when it was felt doubtful that they were covered under the existing section 45D. Therefore this new provision covers some inadequacies which have become apparent in the degree of protection from unfair tactics by way of secondary boycotts. The new prohibition is even-handed- as I have said before- as it applies to business conduct as well as to employee conduct. The amendment provides for defences to the prohibition in certain circumstances and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has already foreshadowed an amendment to the Bill before us which will clarify the Government's intention in that respect. The amendment will make it abundantly clear that the new section 45D(1B)(a) gives a defence only to conduct that is authorised by the Trade Practices Commission or is the subject of a notification to the Trade Practices Commission which has not been revoked. There is also a defence in that a defendant may claim a predominant purpose for which he engaged in the conduct concerned was to preserve or further a business carried on by him. 
Black bans and boycotts which hinder Australia's trade are against the community interest. I think that despite all the blustering we hear from members opposite, the vast majority of Australian citizens would agree with that proposition. The amendment the Government is putting forward is designed to prohibit people from engaging in conduct for the purpose of preventing or substantially hindering overseas and interstate trade or commerce. The conduct to be prohibited- as the Minister said in his second reading speech- strikes at the heart of the prosperity of Australia and affects us all. It affects our sea and air links. These links ought to remain open so that we can export and import goods at times most favourable to our seasons, to our economy and to our balance of trade. The costs to business and to the Australian community of a hindering of interstate trade and commerce are enormous. Quite apart from the direct costs incurred at the time, there is the long term effect of the damage to Australia's reputation as a reliable trading partner. 
Anyone who has visited some of our major trading partners overseas will realise the damage to our long term economic prospects by our reputation in some places on the basis that we cannot deliver goods on time as contracted because of black bans and boycotts which delay the flow of trade; thus we cannot meet contractual dates for the supply of goods. The damage is not restricted to losing a couple of orders at a particular time but extends to our reputation in a long term sense. When section 45D was introduced into the Act last year the Government's views regarding the reasons for it were based on two fundamental principles. I turn again to the Minister's second reading speech where he said first that the Government considered that boycotting of the commercial activities of particular persons is generally undesirable conduct on which the Trade Practices Act should take a firm line. Again I would emphasise that the majority of Australians would agree with that propositioncertainly not members opposite. The Minister went on to say that the Government believed it is essential that the Trade Practices Act should take an even-handed approach to boycotts and apply, so far as possible, to both business and employees alike. In other words, if a company adopts or a group of companies adopt unfair trading activities designed to harm another company, they should be prevented from doing so. 
Similarly, if groups of employees try to prevent the delivery of raw materials or to hinder the trading activities of a company, unless it is something that arises out of a direct industrial dispute over industrial terms and wages and conditions, they should be prevented from doing so. The Bill now before the House embodies those two fundamental principles. The type of behaviour this Bill is aimed at, for example, is that by an outside group trying to prevent the delivery of goods from a company to a customer interstate or overseas. As such it will be applauded by the community. It will give added protection to those who are trying to carry on their business in a normal and profitable way. It will certainly not detract from the right of employees of any company to take part in industrial action to improve their wages and conditions. That needs to be rammed home again and again in view of the red herrings which are continually brought up by the Opposition in this respect. I believe that this Bill will have the support of the Australian community. It will certainly have the support of those who have the best interests of our economic development at heart, and it ought to have the support of this House. 
-I submit to the House that it should reject the principle that we ought to decide budgetary matters by way of private members' Bills or motions moved by private members in this House. I suggest that it would be a totally unacceptable principle for stable government in this country to have government expenditure increased by way of personal initiatives taken in this House by private members. We all have many issues of concern. They involve matters on which we receive representations from our electors and to which we give a greater or lesser degree of priority. If each of us were to move motions or introduce private members' Bills in this House designed to increase expenditure- I doubt that many of us would put forward Bills designed to reduce expenditure or to raise the taxes needed to provide for increased expenditure- the possibility of pursuing any coherent economic policy would be completely negated. 
We all have many ideas that we want to put forward. We put them forward in the context of budgetary considerations by the Government, through the Government members' committees, of which we on this side of the House are all members, in representations to Ministers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and in discussions in the party room. But, once a Budget is decided upon by a government and has been debated and passed in this House and the other place, I believe that it is the responsibility of the government to carry out that Budget. I cannot support the proposition that individual members of this House should be able to introduce private members' Bills which have the effect of increasing government expenditure. 
I imagine that I could make myself a very popular fellow with many businessmen in my electorate if I introduced a Bill to reduce or to abolish sales tax. I would receive great applause. But I doubt that I would introduce a Bill to reduce expenditure in other areas to compensate for that loss of revenue. That precisely is the problems in private members putting forward private members' Bills which have the effect of increasing government expenditure or reducing the revenue necessary to meet the Government's commitments. On that principle, the procedure being suggested is not one that can be supported. 
Let us look at some of the other factors that have been raised in this debate. It is quite misleading to consider the indexation of pensions separate from the levels of inflation in Australia, as spokesmen of the Australian Labor Party have attempted to do in this debate. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  said earlier in this debate, annual indexation of pensions, together with the low inflation levels being achieved by this Government, Will protect the value of pensions more than the high inflation of the Whitlam years of office and twice-yearly pension indexation. By bringing inflation down and by indexing pensions annually we provide greater protection for pensioners than twiceyearly indexation which was necessitated by the exorbitant levels of inflation brought about by the Whitlam Government's policies. Certainly, with Labor-type inflation rates pensions would have to be indexed frequently. But this would not be an indication of any greater concern on the part of the Australian Labor Party; it would be an indication of its mismanagement of the economy which made those more frequent increases in pensions necessary. 
What is the position of the pensioner who has a small additional income in the way of fixed interest securities? The Government's commitment to fighting inflation is of great value to that person. In the three years of the Labor Government the consumer price index rose by SO per cent. In other words, the fixed income received by a pensioner was halved in real terms. Let us look at some of the developments that the Government has had to face through changes in the nature of our population and in social security commitments. In June 1968, 1000 workers in Australia were supporting 176 pensioners, including supporting parent beneficiaries. In June last year, 1000 workers in the work force were supporting 276 pensioners and other social security beneficiaries. Through the increase in eligibility for various social security pensions which has taken place over a period and because of the change in the age structure of the population, there has been an enormous increase in the commitment by government to social security pensioners. That is a factor that must be borne in mind when we look at the budgetary implications 
Let us look also at the sheer increase in the number of age pensioners in that same period. In June 1968 there were more than 682,000 age pensioners in Australia 
-Yes, the figure has doubled since then. In June 1978 there were 1,264,000 age pensioners. So we have seen a doubling of the age pensioner population in this country. That indicates the increasing commitment which governments have accepted for pension payments in this country. 
I turn again to the total Budget outlay on social security. In the current Budget, it amounts to more than $8,000m, which represents about 28 per cent of estimated total Budget outlays for this year. That is a very considerable commitment. Commonwealth expenditure on health and welfare has increased from $1.4 billion in 1967-68 to $10.2 billion in 1977-78. That is a sevenfold rise in 10 years. In the current financial year, 1978-79, expenditure on health and welfare is expected to rise to $10.9 billion- almost $800 for every man, woman and child in Australia. So this Government is meeting a very substantial commitment for the health and welfare of the Australian people and, in particular, for the aged population of Australia. In a year of budgetary restraint- this year- the welfare budget rose by 7 per cent. So, let that fact give the he to those honourable members who claim that this Government is responsible for substantial cutbacks in social security benefits and welfare expenditure generally 
I repeat that in a year of budgetary restraint there has been an increase of 7 per cent in the total welfare budget. About two million people, or roughly 15 per cent of the Australian population, receive the bulk of their income from the social security system. When we take into account 1.2 million age pensioners, over 250,000 invalid pensioners and all the other categories of social security beneficiaries, we have about two million people, or 15 per cent of the Australian population, receiving the bulk of their income from the social security system. In addition, of course, there are millions of mothers who qualify for family allowances. 
In outlining the substantial commitment of the Government to assist age pensioners and other categories of social security beneficiaries, I draw attention to the total effect if each of us were to put forward a private member's BUI which would increase expenditure, whether on pensions, on the extension of fringe benefits to categories of pensioners who now do not qualify, on the extension of eligibility for certain benefits, such as domiciliary nursing care- which, because of a particular institution would aid greatly a number of people in my electorate- or a number of other benefits, such as taxation concessions, which we would all like to introduce for various categories of people in our community. Where would it end? It is all very well to say that the proposal before us involves an expenditure of only $2 7m. The total effect of all of these other measures which individual members would feel constrained to put forward, if but one measure were successfully considered in this place, would be such that the implications for a stable budgetary policy would be quite horrendous. It would be just impossible for any government to pursue in a consistent fashion a budgetary package designed to tackle the economic problems of the country. 
Indeed, in some respects, that is the kind of problem that emerged for the former Labor Government, made up as it is of people who are now on the Opposition benches. We recall that from time to time we would hear, by way of inspired leaks from the Labor caucus, that various members would advance motions to increase expenditure on various matters or extend benefits or concessions to various categories of people. Although each may have been laudable and supportable in themselves, the effect was that not one of the three Labor Treasurers that the Government had in those three years was able to pursue any sort of consistent budgetary policy, or maintain the integrity of a Budget. Expenditure burgeoned and the opportunity to raise revenue to meet that increased expenditure was lessened by the resistance from various power blocs in the caucus which sought, in the short term, to benefit their constituents by proposals which, in the medium and long term resulted in disastrous budgetary policies which had horrendous effects on this country's economic development. That type of attitude to a Budget is one that we do not want to encourage. It would operate to the great disadvantage of this country. 
I want now to comment on some of the remarks that have been made from time to time about so-called cutbacks by this Government in the provision of social security and welfare benefits. People criticise so-called cutbacks but do not look at the areas where substantial developments in, and extensions of, benefits have been introduced, I refer for instance to the fact that the single rate age pension has been increased from $38.75 a week, in November 1975 to $53.20 as from 1 November last. Again in 1976, this Government replaced the former complex means test by an easily understandable income test. This advance had the effect of increasing pension entitlement for people holding assets which produced a relatively low rate of return. There were certainly many people in my electorate who benefited as a result. 
Moreover, for the three year period 1976-79 more than 500 new self-contained hostel and nursing projects, providing some 15,000 beds, have been approved under the Government's program of accommodation for aged people. That program will be extended to include a fourth year, 1979-80. 
Also, in 1977-78 a personal care subsidy was approved, in respect of some 609 premises, for more than 16,000 aged people who needed special attention or who were 80 years or more. The subsidy last year totalled $12. 6m, an increase over that for 1 976-77 of $ 1 .5m. Moreover, between 1976 and 1979 some 400 senior citizen centre projects, of a total value of $28.5m, have been funded. These ranged from large capital approvals for new centres to minor items of equipment for existing centres. 
Again there has been an expansion of total expenditure on home care services for the aged, from $5.7m in 1975-76 to an estimated $ 10.4m in 1978-79. Total subsidies for Meals-on- Wheels have increased over the last three years by 30 per cent. Also, I would emphasise yet again, the sharp reduction over the last three years in inflation levels has helped to protect the savings and fixed incomes of many elderly people. 
In 1977, the Social Services Act was amended to remove provisions which prevented a married woman from qualifying for sickness benefit on the same basis as a married man. Hitherto it has been alleged that that Act discriminated against women. Finally, in 1976 this Liberal-National Country Party Government introduced legislation which guaranteed, for the first time since 1942, automatic indexation of pensions and benefits. That automatic feature is still in force. Because we have been successful in reducing the rate of inflation we have been able to provide much more real and long-lasting protection of the value of pensions than was possible, under the Labor Government, with its high rate of inflation. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware of the serious nature of the industrial problem in the airline industry at present? Can the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to resolve this dispute in the airline industry before its effect on domestic and overseas airline services becomes most severe? 
I wish to raise a grievance on behalf of the residents of Marysville in my electorate. A number of residents of Marysville and particularly the Marysville Tourist and Progress Association have drawn my attention to the problems they are likely to experience in the near future with respect to television reception. This likelihood flows from the decision to change Channel ATV-O to Channel 10. That change is expected to take place towards the end of this year. Marysville residents presently receive reception on Channel 2 and Channel 0, and even that reception is down on the quality that residents of the metropolitan area of Melbourne would expect. At great expense, with the construction of many different types of antennae, they have tried to get channels 7 and 9 but very few have managed to obtain any reception of reasonable quality on those two commercial channels. They also receive some reception of Channel GMV 6, the Shepparton station, via a translator at Alexandra. The position is that towards the end of this year it is proposed that Channel ATV 0 will become Channel 10 and also that Channel GMV 6, the Shepparton channel which is presently received on Channel 10, will be transferred to Channel 1 1. 
Marysville has a population of approximately 600 people and there are about 300 television sets in the town, including those in some of the recently built motel units. As I think most honourable members will know, Marysville is a popular family tourist resort with a number of guest houses and motels which are very well patronised throughout a great part of the year. 
It is a beautiful area, as my friend from Tasmania, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  remarks. He obviously knows tha area. The Marysville Tourist and Progress Association has had some correspondence with the Department of Post and Telecommunications on this subject. It wrote on 30 December and pointed out the difficulties that the people of Marysville were likely to face with the transfer of Channel 0 to Channel 10 in that they were likely not to have any reception at all of that particular station, throwing them back entirely onto Channel 2, the ABC station in Melbourne. In its letter the Marysville Tourist and Progress Association pointed out: 
As one of the few seriously disadvantaged reception areas in the State, it is hoped that any change will improve not destroy, the very limited reception available. Because of the interests of residents and the harm to the tourist industry, any worsening of TV in Marysville would be of major concern and so my association seeks urgent clarification of the position. 
I realise that there are better things to do in Marysville than watch television all day. There are many other things to see and do but, nonetheless it is of benefit to the tourist industry as well as the residents of Marysville to have good reception on more than one channel. Certainly there should be at least one commercial channel that they can watch with some reliability. In its reply dated 7 February 1975 the Department said: 
The change in channel for ATV is being proposed as pan of an overall plan to rationalise the usage of the television channels so that they can be used to provide additional television services in the future. It is an unfortunate byproduct of the change, that the marginal reception of ATV in Marysville, which is outside the normal coverage zone of the Melbourne stations, will deteriorate. The cause of the deterioration is a fundamental physical limitation in the propagation of VHF frequencies in mountainous areas and there is nothing that can be done to improve the situation directly. However, there will be some slight compensation in that the increase in power of the Alexandra translator will improve the reception of the Shepparton station to which you make reference. 
-And my colleague, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  tells me how good that station is. The letter continued: 
My Department is very conscious of the reception problems in Marysville and is constantly seeking means whereby reception can be improved. Whilst I am not in a position to make definitive proposals at the present time, you may be assured that the situation is under active examination with a view to the provision of at least one commercial station signal of viewable quality. 
It was signed by F. J. Green, the Secretary of the Department. The Marysville Tourist and Progress Association has pointed out that the letter refers to a proposal which is 'still under consideration'. Unfortunately, it received that letter on the very day that the announcement of the definite decision to transfer Channel 0 to Channel 10 was made, so the Association understandably is upset that it did not have an opportunity to have some input in the decision making process. The Association asked me to arrange for a deputation to go to the Department or, if necessary, the Minister in an effort to find an acceptable solution. I am grateful to the Minister for immediately agreeing to a deputation meeting with senior departmental officers to see what can be worked out, and then to himself meet a subsequent delegation. I am presently arranging that. 
I understand that the reason for the decision to transfer Channel 0 to Channel 10 was that this would benefit the whole of the television network in Victoria. However, it is unfortunate that in making that decision, and with a view to cost and the benefits for the future development of the television spectrum in Victoria, a number of small communities is likely to be disadvantaged. One lesson to be learned from this is that before decisions of this nature are made, the communities likely to be disadvantaged ought to be given prior notification of the proposals so that consultations may be entered into at an early stage in order to try to solve the technical problems which inevitably arise. I believe also that the ATV television station would have a very substantial interest in seeing a proper solution to this problem because it has a monopoly commercial television in the Marysville area at the moment. I have suggested to the Marysville Tourist and Progress Association that it ought to take up this matter directly with the ATV station to see whether it can assist in reaching some appropriate technical solution. 
Small communities which are already disadvantaged in their television reception should not be further disadvantaged by this type of decision. I hope that a satisfactory solution can be reached not only to compensate Marysville and retain the reception it is likely to lose, but also to improve the viewing quality of a number of television stations beyond that which exists today. I understand that the same problem affects Warburton, which is in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  and that he also is taking up this matter. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the answer given by the Minister two weeks ago on the matter of a draft determination by the Trade Practices Commission relating to arrangements between newspaper publishers and newsagents in New South Wales. In view of widespread interest in this matter by newsagents and other operators of franchise businesses throughout Australia, can the Minister inform the House what steps the Government has taken or will take to intervene in the case? In particular, what steps will be taken to protect the interests of the many small businesses involved in this industry? 
I support the motion proposed by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and strongly oppose the amendment proposed by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  I compliment the honourable member for Hume on bringing this matter forward for debate. We have in this country a de facto situation of abortion on demand through the lax administration or blatant non-enforcement of State laws and the use of the medical benefits schedule. In a sense this situation is in defiance of a vote by this House in 1973 on a Bill relating to abortion. The creation of item 6469 in the medical benefits schedule in 1974 was intended to provide for those abortions which were permitted according to State law. Whether by accident or by design, this item has been used as the gateway to public funding of abortion on demand, thus giving abortion on demand the stamp of public approval and respectability. This has occurred by default without a decision of this Parliament. It is therefore appropriate for this House to debate the matter. 
Several arguments have been put that this House should not debate the matter. I refer to the argument put by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  that this is an all male House and that we are purporting to make a decision on a women's issue. I submit that it is a community issue, a matter of public concern. It involves public funding. As members of Parliament we have a responsibility to debate matters of public concern. We are elected by both men and women. We have to make many decisions indeed on matters which are not within our direct area of experience. We have to make decisions about the aged in the community. None of us is elderly, except perhaps the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon). 
Speaking for myself, my views on the matter have been on the public record before both the 1975 and 1977 elections. Far from it being improper for me to express a view in this Parliament on this matter, I believe I would be failing in my duty if I did not maintain the view I expressed on both those occasions, and chose instead to ignore the views of many men and women who supported me on the basis of my expressed views. It is further argued that the Parliament should not consider this matter because it is a woman's right to choose if she wants an abortion. Normally I would agree with the classic liberal proposition that the law should not intervene in matters of private morality; but I believe that the classic liberal proposition I have just stated does not apply in this matter because another life is at stake, the life of the unborn child. It is therefore not strictly a matter of private morality. No discussion on abortion should ignore the status and rights of the unborn child. The honourable member for McMillan and other speakers against the motion have not canvassed that issue. Indeed, some of the discussion on the subject has proceeded as though an abortion involves no more than the removal of some unwanted wart or tumour. When I consider all the evidence of the development of the foetus at various stages I can conclude only that it is a developing person. We are therefore dealing with a separate human life. 
Other speakers in the debate have outlined the evidence in support of this proposition. I will not repeat it, because I believe that it is well documented. However, I do want to give some examples of how we commonly accept in our own thinking and terminology that there is a mother and a child involved in an abortion. I refer to the wording used by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when he replied to a question I addressed to him on this subject on 15 September 1977. I believe that the Minister was speaking off the cuff because the question certainly was not a Dorothy Dixer. He said: 
I have had many representations, in fact I have had thousands of representations, from people throughout the community, objecting to being party to paying benefits for such procedures unless the mother has had an abortion because of the state of her health. 
Later on he said: 
However, I have asked my Depanment to examine the whole area to ascertain whether there are ways and means of ensuring that benefits are payable to mothers who have had an abortion on proper medical grounds. 
I suggest the very use of the word 'mother' indicates that in the Minister's mind an abortion involves a mother and a child. There cannot be a mother without a child being involved as well. Even today, the amendment to be moved by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  refers to the termination being performed to protect the mother when her life is endangered by a physical pathological condition. The amendment that was to be moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)-  an amendment that has now been withdrawn- used similar terminology. I suggest that in our normal thinking we do think of an abortion involving both a mother and a child. 
All of the States have laws on abortion and we all know that they are not enforced. This is justified by some who say that people will seek abortions anyway, that laws do not influence human behaviour, and that therefore the administration of those laws ought to conform with people's actual behaviour. I do not quite agree with that. I believe that there is a role of the law to declare what is in society's interest. There is a role of the law to influence opinion on matters of right and wrong, matters that affect the welfare of the community. I suggest that all laws are in some way based on a moral judgment. All laws- certainly the criminal law concerning violence, robbery and so on- contain in them some moral judgment. If people refer to law and private sexual morality, I agree that the law should not intrude, but opposition to abortion is not based on some prudish attitude to sexual morality. In my view, it does not have anything at all to do with sexual morality. It does have everything to do with the protection of human life. If we look further at the proposition that abortions are going to occur and therefore the law should not prohibit them, we know that many offences are going to occur anyway. Is it suggested as a corollary to that that those actions that are going to occur anyway should be made legal simply because they are going to occur? If that is the proposition we would follow we would have to repeal a large part of the criminal law that is on the statute books. 
I want to deal with some of the arguments that have been put forward by representatives of the Australian Medical Association. I believe that the argument the AMA has put forward against the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume on the basis that it would breach the confidentiality between doctor and patient is a quite fraudulent argument. It must be described as fraudulent, and I do not know how a bunch of phoney physicians could have come up with that sort of argument. Already a doctor must cite on a document an item number for a medical procedure if there is to be a claim on medical benefits in respect of that procedure. The item number clearly identifies the nature of the medical procedure. Indeed, a number of pharmaceutical benefits are available only on specification of the medical condition for which they are prescribed. I therefore suggest that the AMA is putting forward a quite spurious argument. Further, I understand that in South Australia a form is required under section 82A of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act whenever an abortion is performed. That form requires all sorts of highly confidential details far in excess of the details that would be required under the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume. Where was the AMA with its arguments on confidentiality when the South Australian form was designed? It was not to be heard because the South Australian legislation had the effect of liberalising abortion law. Whilst the AMA General Secretary protests that the Australian Medical Association is not stating a view on abortion as such, I am sure he is aware that the effect of its objection to the motion before us is to support abortion on demand. 
I put forward the view that even the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume can be somewhat misleading if people believe from its wording that large numbers of abortions are required on medical grounds. I think that that view was put very forcibly by Professor  Sir William  Liley of the University of Auckland when he visited Australia. He said: 
I can say with complete confidence and I'm sure I would have no contradiction from any Obstetrician here tonight or any Obstetrician at all, that no matter how crook mother's heart disease, no matter how rotten the kidneys, no matter how horrible the diabetes, no matter how bonkers she was, that, if in fact, she wanted the baby, nobody would be standing around saying 'but my dear, you must have an abortion to save your life'. I have never come across this situation, nor have any of my professional colleagues in Auckland. 
The fundamental fact is that she does not want the baby. The real indication for an abortion in the vast majority of cases is that the mother does not want the baby. Whilst it is legitimate that the motion of the honourable member for Hume should provide the exception of medical grounds that cannot be satisfied by any other medical procedure, I believe we have to realise that justifiable medical grounds would be very limited indeed. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to oppose very strongly the amendment put forward by the honourable member for McMillan. Let us be under no misapprehension as to what that amendment really means. It proposes that the motion should read: 
That this House is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should not pay any medical benefits for or in relation to the termination of pregnancy unless the procedure is performed in accordance with the law of a State or Territory. 
It is worth noting what a leading member of the Press Gallery has said about that amendment. In the  Age on  16 March Michelle Grattan said: 

 Mr Simon proposes an amendment declaring that the Commonwealth should not pay a benefit for an abortion unless it is performed in accordance with the law of the relevant State or Territory, and by a qualified doctor. 
This, of course, simply restates the present position. But it would give members the psychological comfort of making a declaration which sounds significant without being so. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The House is debating a statement made in the public interest earlier today by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to indicate what steps the Government was taking in a way consistent with the public interest to deal with the industrial relations problems which this country is presently experiencing. That is a concept which members of the Opposition seem to have forgotten in this debate. The Government is concerned more with the tactics that are being employed in the present industrial disputes than with the merits of the claims that are being put forward. Whilst members of the Opposition might like to claim that the Government is guilty of bastardly in its activities, I can assure them that the mothers in my electorate who rang me over the weekend to complain about not being able to get milk for their children had a few ideas of their own about who is guilty of the bastardry in this episode. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I ask the honourable member for Casey to resume his seat. Having just occupied the Chair and having listened to this debate for the last half hour, I intend to apply the Standing Orders strictly and impartially. The honourable member may continue. 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The irresponsibility of" the leadership of the Transport Workers Union of Australia in cutting off essential food supplies knows no bounds.The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said yesterday: 
The trade union leaders seem incapable of grasping the fact that they and their members are pan of the community that they are injuring by their actions. There are processes by which the union's case can be properly heard. The Government will not tolerate- the community will not tolerate- the situation in which as a first step in the bargaining process trade unions inconvenience and harm the public- in this case including hospital patients, families and small children. 
That is what the Prime Minister had to say yesterday and I suggest that his remarks were spot on. The statement of the Minister for Industrial Relations, in which he outlines the measures that the Government is going to take, did not come just as a result of one dispute or one industrial action. We have to look at a number of episodes that have occurred over the last year and, indeed, over a longer period. Let us look at what has occurred over the last year or so with the Transport Workers Union of Australia. In March 1978 there was a stoppage of drivers involving Ansett-Pioneer, a stoppage of armoured car drivers at Brambles Security, and a three month ban involving haulage contractors with oil companies in the Northern Territory. This ban led to a section 45D application under the Trade Practices Act. Then there was a 12-day stoppage at the BP works at Kwinana, Western Australia, over an appeal, and a stoppage by drivers in Brambles ' waste collection divisions. 
In June last year porters, also members of the Transport Workers Union employed by TransAustralia Airlines took some industrial action over the use of staff labour. Then there was a stoppage by concrete truck owner-drivers in Western Australia which lasted from 3 July to 2 1 July 1978. In late August last year there was a stoppage by TWU members employed by Ampol Petroleum Ltd in New South Wales. That stoppage lasted for a week or so. Approximately 1,000 Queensland drivers from Mayne Nickless Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Pty Ltd went on strike from 14 to 18 September. In 1978 there was further industrial action which spread throughout South Australia and Tasmania. In November there were stoppages by approximately 800 petrol tanker drivers in Victoria over the use of agent drivers. That stoppage lasted from 8 November to 16 November and resulted in the application of section 45d of the Trade Practices Act. In December last year there was a stoppage on various days by TWU members employed by all Australian airlines. Up to 1,800 drivers were involved at various stages. The issue was an appeal against a decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In February of this year there was the Malaysian Airline System dispute. Now we have a dispute which began last month and is disrupting supplies, particularly of milk, foodstuffs and other essential goods. 
I outline those matters to indicate that we are not dealing with a situation that has suddenly arisen in the last few days and in respect of which the Government is taking precipitate action. We are dealing with a long history of industrial disputation of a nature which is designed, one would have to believe, to inconvenience the public to the maximum possible extent. Let me point to the importance of this sort of action which is being taken particularly by the Transport Workers Union. I will go through a little of the background of the development of trade unions. I think it would be fair to say that last century as industrial development was getting under way there was a balance of industrial power in favour of capital against what was then very unorganised labour. No one would dispute that the organisation of labour into trade unions enabled working people to gain many great benefits which have flowed through to the standard of living that we all enjoy in Australia today. Those organisations of labour redressed the imbalance. However, the situation in most industrial disputes then was that a strike in one particular enterprise was more or less a dispute just between the workers in that enterprise and the managers and owners of that particular enterprise. Because of the smaller nature of many of the industrial undertakings, there were not a great many people outside that dispute who were tied up or disrupted by it. 
Now, with the change in the structure of the economy, the development of technology and increasingly sophisticated communications and transport, we have a more interdependent economy and therefore a strike by a few key workers can affect many people throughout the community who are not directly involved in the dispute. This can result in the standing down of many workers throughout many other- industries who do not have any particular axe to grind and who are not in dispute with their own employers. That is the sort of situation in which transport workers who do not deliver essential supplies to many industries or to final consumers of goods can find themselves. We have that sort of situation developing in the power industry. A few dozen key maintenance workers in the electricity generation industry can be pulled out and so disrupt the economy of a whole State or, indeed, the whole nation. We have seen that situation develop also with air traffic controllers. 
When not just the employer and the employees in a particular company or industry are affected but the whole economy is affected and many other members of the public are inconvenienced or disadvantaged in some way, I would suggest that there is a responsibility on a government to maintain the public interest. Only the Government has the role in our community to maintain the public interest. So there is a responsibility on this Government, and indeed on any concerned and responsible government, to take steps to ensure that the public interest is injected into the dispute and is properly considered. 
The Government has announced that it will consider applying for the deregistration of the Transport Workers Union because it is engaged in an action which interferes with interstate or overseas trade and commerce or the provision of the public service by the Commonwealth or a State. Employers affected may take a similar approach, as the Minister for Industrial Relations pointed out in his own statement earlier today. He also pointed out that there is a major industrial dispute in the paint industry and hundreds of people in that industry have already been stood down. 
One of the problems that we sometimes find in disputes which develop in various industries is that some shortsighted companies will give in to unreasonable demands and will create a precedent which other companies not only in the same industry but also in other industries are then obliged to follow. The Government has stated that should any company or industry make a settlement outside the wage fixation guidelines, the Government will instruct the Prices Justification Tribunal to institute an immediate inquiry into that industry. Furthermore, if we face a specific problem of decreased production in the paint industry, the Government will consider allowing the importation of paint free of duty under by-law to make up any shortfall in production. I would suggest that that is a reasonable notice for the Minister to give so that people who depend on paint in their industries will know that supplies will be available to enable them to be employed, to carry out their normal working activities and to earn their normal incomes. I challenge honourable members opposite to object to that course of action. I think it would be unreasonable for any honourable member opposite to put the proposition that this 
Government should not ensure that those people who have no dispute at all with their employers but who work in an industry that may be affected by lack of supplies caused by a dispute in another industry are able to get supplies and are able to earn a wage in the way that they would expect. That is what I refer to when I say that a government has a responsibility to assert the public interest in this country in a way that certainly honourable members opposite have given no indication that they intend to assert it. 
I was very interested to listen to some of the bluster by honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He seemed to have more to say about the Victorian elections than he had to say about the Minister's statement or about the industrial relations situation in this country. I felt that he was the one who was rather obsessed about the Victorian elections, although he accused this Government of being obsessed about the Victorian elections. Certainly, the Minister made no comments about the Victorian elections.  His  statements were directed to the industrial situation in this country. It would have been good to hear the principal spokesman for the Opposition who led in this debate addressing himself in more detail to some of the problems that we are facing. He should have talked about the welfare of Victorian people rather than the Victorian elections. It would have been interesting indeed to have him talk a little more about that. 
I suggest that what the Minister did in his statement was to assert the public interest, to ensure that the Government's views on the public interest are clearly stated, to ensure that the Government's views on the way industrial relations ought to be conducted in this country are made known and that the activities of certain unions that take advantage of their strategic position in the economy to wield undue influence is properly brought to heel. I believe, therefore, that his statement deserves the support of this House. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm reports that have been received today that  Mr Bhutto,  the former leader of Pakistan, has been executed? If he has been executed, what is the Government's attitude to this event? 
I support the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 and oppose very strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been drawn to reports of an elderly German couple whose daughter is visiting them at present and who is now reported to be facing a deportation order? Is any such deportation order in existence? What application has been made to the Minister or his Department for this person to stay in Australia? 
I wish to raise a matter concerning a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on 22 May. I realise that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is away at present but I advised his office last week, when I first sought to raise this matter, that I would raise it in the House on the adjournment debate. On 22 May, the  Deputy  Leader commented on the appointment to the High Court of Australia of  Mr Justice  Wilson of Western Australia. I felt that he commented on that appointment in a most disparaging and unjustifiable way. In a Press statement he said: 
While not in any way detracting from the legal eminence of  Mr Justice  Wilson, the simple fact is that his appointment was made by the Court Government, rather than the Fraser Government. The Attorney-General  Senator Durack,  has simply complied meekly with the demands of his State Premier. 
At a later stage in the Press statement he went on to say:  the main reason for  Mr Justice  Wilson's appointment is that his conservative views, particularly on constitutional questions, are well known to, and appreciated by  Sir Charles. 
His final sentence was this: 
For its part, the Labor Party rejects the motion of direct State involvement in High Court appointments, and believes that merit should be the only consideration. 
I suggest that that is not only an insult to  Mr Justice  Wilson, it is also an insult to the smaller States in the Australian Federation. The appointment of  Mr Justice  Wilson has been acclaimed by legal authorities as a judicial event. He is 56 years of age. He has been Western Australia's Solicitor-General since 1969 and before that he held senior Crown Law appointments in Western Australia. As Solicitor-General he has appeared in many major constitutional cases before the High Court. He has also played an active role in constitutional discussions between the Commonwealth and the States in matters being considered by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. Further, he is the  Chairman  of the Barristers Board of Western Australia. I wish to quote what one or two people had to say about his appointment. The appointment was acclaimed by legal colleagues in Perth. For example, in an article appearing in the Melbourne  Age  on 22 May, the dean of the law faculty of the University of Western Australia,  Dr A.  F. Dickey said: 
He is a very fine advocate- one of the very best lawyers this State has ever produced . . . 
The views of  Mr Leo  Wood, who was  Mr Wilson's  adversary in many major criminal trials, are also referred to in that article, which states: 
He is one of the most able men I 've ever known in 25 years at the Bar, said leading Perth Barrister,  Mr Leo  Wood,  Mr Wilson  's adversary in scores of major criminal trials. 

 Mr Wood is also reported as saying: 
I've keen respect for his ability. At the High Court hell be just his own man- he has no political alignment. As a lawyer he is sound as a bell. 
The complete refutation of the comments made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition occurs in an article written by Professor Colin Howard, who is hardly a conservative lawyer in this country. In the opening sentence of Professor Howard's article, which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 22 May, the very day on which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made his statement, he stated: 
The appointment of  Mr Wilson  to the vacant spot on the High Court is a judicial event. 
He went on to say: 
Over a long period of time there has been persistent and justifiable criticism that the High Court is dominated by appointments from New South Wales and Victoria. 
Later on he stated: 
There has been ... a persistent sense that since Australia is a federation and since one of the most important aspects of the High Court's work is the resolution of Federal Constitutional issues, it would be at least fitting that judicial representation on the court should be more widespread. 
Referring to the promise by the Commonwealth Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that he would in future consult with the States on such appointments, Professor Colin Howard stated: 
The choice of  Mr Wilson  seems to indicate that serious consultation has in fact taken place . . . 
Now we have the Deputy Leader of the Opposition saying that this is simply an example of jobs for the boys, whereas one of the leading Labor lawyers in Australia is prepared to concede that it is a judicial event and a step in the right direction. 
I remind the Minister for Defence of the continued representations by many members of this Parliament, notably by the honourable member for Henty, and by various service organisations and numerous individual servicemen for the restoration of the traditional Reserve and regular forces awards. Can the Minister advise when we may expect such restoration to be effected? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and concerns representations which have been made to the Minister concerning the involvement of the Commonwealth Employment Service and its Professional Employment Office in activities already well covered by private employment agencies. Is the Minister aware that the Commonwealth Employment Service has recently extended its temporary staff activity into Victoria where private agencies already offer comprehensive temporary staff services? What public benefit is being served by such duplication of effort? When will the Minister respond to the many representations he has received requesting him to define more precisely the proper areas of activity of the Commonwealth Employment Service and its Professional Employment Office. 
-Before I comment on the Budget, let me firstly extend my congratulations, and I am sure the congratulations of all honourable members in the House, to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr 
Leo McLeay) on his maiden speech. He does follow, as he himself has recognised, a very great man in that electorate. Frank Stewart was a man who was held in great respect on both sides of this house and in both Houses of this Parliament. If the honourable member of Grayndler who has just addressed us can attain a similar reputation, I am sure the Parliament will be well served. I was particularly interested in his comment that since his election he had discovered the tribulations of being a member of parliament. He commented that as a party official he had had occasion in the past to cast disparaging remarks upon some of the Labor parliamentarians. He need not apologise for that. In fact, we on this side of the House would encourage him to continue in that very worthwhile activity. 
The Budget has been a responsible Budget, a measured Budget, one that takes account of the economic circumstances of our time and one that extends social justice in our community. I want to deal with the paradox that has developed in some of the comments that have been made on the Budget in the media by various commentators. On the one hand we have allegations that there have been cut-backs in social welfare. On the other hand we have assertions from some interest groups that social welfare spending is out of control. I am sure that we have all experienced this dichotomy of views. On the one hand groups are saying that there have been cut-backs and condemning the Government for the cut-backs and heartlessness; on the other hand, curiously, other groups are saying exactly the oppositethat social social welfare spending is out of control. 
Let us try to put this into some perspective. In Australia over the past 10 years, expenditure on social security and welfare has increased almost sevenfold, from $1.3 billion in 1969-70 to $5 billion in 1975-76, and to an estimated $8.9 billion in 1979-80. Some of this increase would have been offset because of the taxing of pensions and benefits and the change from a child tax rebate to a family allowance scheme. There has nonetheless been a significant increase in spending, not only in money terms but also in real terms and as a proportion of the gross domestic product. Even if adjustments are made for spending on family allowances, unemployment and sickness benefits, expenditure on social security and welfare as a proportion of the Commonwealth Budget has increased from 18 per cent in 1975-76 to 2 1 per cent in 1979-80. That I think is a significant comparison- 18 per cent in 1975-76, the year of the last Labor Budget, to 2 1 per cent in 1979-80. In overall terms, therefore, there certainly has been no cut-back, as some people claim. 
Over the past 10 years the number of people in receipt of social security pensions and benefits has more than doubled, from about one million in 1969 to over two million in 1979. At the same time the number of people in the labour force has increased by only 24 per cent, so the House can see that there has been a smaller increase in the taxation base of the economy than in the number of pensioners and social security beneficiaries. Measuring that growth in another way, one can say that in 1969 there were 179 pensioners per 1,000 members of the labour force. In 1979, 10 years later, this figure has increased to 284 per 1,000 members of the labour force. Those ratios do not include unemployment, sickness and special benefits; they do include the more permanent types of social security payments. 
The levels of pensions and benefits have also increased substantially over the last decade. The standard rate of pension has risen from $14 a week at December 1968 to $53.20 at December 1978 and will increase again to $59.90 a week in November 1979. The increase of 280 per cent in pensions during the 10 years to last December compares with an increase of 144 per cent in the consumer price index. At the time of the last pension increases the rate represented a record 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is a point not often recognised- that as a percentage of average weekly earnings, the pension reached its highest level ever under the Fraser Government after the last Budget. 
The single rate of unemployment benefit for adults without dependants has increased from less than 12 per cent of average weekly earnings to about 23 per cent over the same period. One of the reasons for the increasing numbers of pensioners and beneficiaries in our community is the increases in eligibility for pensions. There have been successive actions by Commonwealth governments which have changed the means test- or the income text, as it is now. There have been changes in conditions of eligibility for certain benefits, extensions of supporting parents benefits, et cetera. 
One other major reason for the increase is the aging of the Australian population. Future policies will need to account for this development unless the birth rate increases- I suppose that is unlikely- or we adopt a deliberate immigration policy aimed at bringing young people into the country. Even such an immigration policy would have difficulty in effecting a 'younging' of the 
Australian population, if I may put it that way. As we all know as members of parliament, new citizens frequently make representation to us to have their elderly parents admitted to Australia. To some extent at least that would counteract any attempt to introduce younger people into the community through a deliberate immigration policy. 
Some commentators have suggested that we ought to lower the retirement age in order to provide more places in the work force for those presently unemployed. Whilst we must search for ways of finding more jobs for the unemployed, I suggest that lowering the retirement age would only narrow the tax base and require heavier taxes on those still in the work force. In its own way that would be a discouragement to further employment. We may need to make it possible for more people to continue in the work force after the present normal retirement age of 65, thus broadening the number of opportunities for a wide range of people in the community and broadening the tax base. 
The Government has developed specific policies and programs for particular needy groups or for those at risk. One of those groups is single parents. During the 1970s, Commonwealth governments of both persuasion have significantly extended assistance to sole parents. In 1973, assistance was provided to many sole mothers previously ineligible, such as unmarried mothers and separated wives. In 1977, the Fraser Government introduced assistance to sole fathers on a similar basis to that provided to sole mothers, so that the supporting mothers benefit, as it was, became a supporting parents benefit. 
The Budget further extended eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to those receiving the supporting parent benefit. Whilst it is difficult to calculate the value of these additional benefits to the individual beneficiary, it has been suggested that, on average, they could be worth about $10 a week. In many cases they could be worth more because of the actions of local councils and owners of private businesses, such as cinemas, in extending other benefits to people who hold pensioner health benefit cards. It is estimated that some 56,000 supporting parents with 96,000 children will qualify for pensioner health benefit cards. As a result their health costs will be reduced significantly. This will be of special importance to those with young children, particularly children suffering from chronic illnesses. A task force consisting of the Commonwealth and State governments has been established to review the implications of consolidating all existing assistance given to lone parents with dependants. At present there are some inconsistencies between the types of support offered by the various State governments and there is some overlapping of services given by the State governments and the Commonwealth Government. 
Another group of particular concern to this Government is handicapped persons. The Government has given a particular priority to developing programs for handicapped people. In the past three financial years some $ 1 15.5m has been spent under the handicapped persons welfare program. This program provides subsidies for sheltered workshops, activity therapy, training centres and residential accommodation for handicapped persons. We have widened the eligibility criteria for Commonwealth rehabilitation assistance so that treatment and training can be offered to all classes of disabled people of working age. Before 1977 the free-of-charge programs were available only for those who hoped to undertake future paid employment. The handicapped children's allowance was introduced in 1974 and has been increased in real terms under the Fraser Government. In 1977 eligibility was extended to substantially handicapped children where the family income was low and to handicapped students in the 16 years to 24 years age group. In addition, the benefit paid to organisations conducting approved residential accommodation for handicapped children has been incresed. The facilities of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service have been expanded. In the last financial year a record 4,552 people were accepted for rehabilitation and nearly 1,600 were placed in open, part time or sheltered employment. 
This Government has also recently announced the extension of the age limit for the domiciliary nursing care benefit from 65 years and over to 16 years and over for those people who fall within the eligibility criteria for that particular benefit. This will provide a supplementary benefit of $14 a week to those who have to look after at home relatives who require substantial nursing assistance and who meet certain criteria which decree that additional expenses have to be met on their behalf. This will be of assistance to a number of people- they are not necessarily going to continue to live in my electorate- who live at the Yarra-Me hostel for paraplegics and quadriplegics in Croydon. Many of them would prefer to be looked after at home and some additional financial assistance to their families would be of assistance in bringing about that objective. 
I want also to mention one of the gaps to which I think we have to give greater attention in future. I refer to the need for either short term hostel accommodation or long term permanent residential accommodation for severely handicapped or retarded people. In Croydon, which is in my electorate, there is an establishment known as Monkami. It is a centre for severely handicapped and retarded people. It has day training facilities and sheltered workshop facilities. It also has some accommodation facilities which are gravely overtaxed at present. Recently I attended a meeting of parents of the children who attend that centre. They were concerned about the need for increased residential accommodation. They are fearful of what will happen to their handicapped children when they, the parents, become aged and pass on. And their children may be getting on in years too. It is all very well for the parents to look after their children but as the parents get older they fear that there may not be a place for their children where they will be looked after with the same degree of care that their families have given them. I can see that this problem is coming up in various areas and probably needs a greater priority of funds. 
In short, those who say that they are opposed to the cutbacks in the social security budget and in social welfare spending generally should specify where those cutbacks have been made and say how much they would increase expenditure in those areas and how the revenue to cover the increased expenditure should be raised. On the other hand, those who say that social welfare expenditure is out of control, ought to specify where the surpluses are in current expenditure and be prepared to publicly justify cuts when the inevitable criticism comes to government for having taken drastic action to cut back expenditure. I believe that this Government has adopted a realistic attitude to its responsibilities in the social welfare area. It has looked at areas of need. It has tried to concentrate expenditure increases in those areas of need and it has done so in a way that has not placed unnecessary strains on the economic capacity of this country. I commend the Budget to the House. 
-The House is debating a statement made earlier this evening by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  In that statement the Minister outlined the positive achievements of the Government in the implementation of industrial relations legislation. He spelt out the dangers to Australia of the industrial relations policies of the Australian Labor Party which were decided at the recent ALP Federal Conference. He put forward the wages policy which the Government wants the unions, employers and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to consider. It was a cause for great regret for those honourable members on this side of the House who have been following the debate closely that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who sit on the other side of the House, did not attempt to come to grips with that statement. Not one word of their speeches attempted to come to grips with the Minister's statement. 
I had hoped that my old friend, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  in his usual erudite and lucid style would make some attempts to come to grips with the statement but he did not do so. In fact, the main thing that came out of his speech was that he is against the concept of membership ballots for union amalgamations. I thought that that was quite extraordinary: He would deny the membership of unions a say in what should happen with respect to union amalgamations. It was also interesting to note that the honourable member for Gellibrand did not attempt to answer the question which was put quite specifically to him by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  Honourable members will recall that the honourable member for Diamond Valley raised the proposal by the ALP to exempt unions from actions in tort. He asked what would be the position of a widow of a trade unionist whose husband died as a result of some negligent action of a trade union official. Would that trade union official be exempt from an action in tort? The honourable member for Gellibrand did not attempt to deal with that question. So we have to assume that the honourable member for Diamond Valley was onto something in that respect and that he was accurate in his assumptions. 
We listened with great interest to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition, in particular. He made this interesting statement: 'ACTU policy is not necessarily ALP policy'. That might be strictly correct in some respects. But I think we all accept that the trade union movement, through the Australian Council of Trade Unions and its official organs, has a great deal of influence on the ALP. Indeed, ALP spokesmen from time to time put that proposition forward as one of the great strengths of the Australian Labor Party. But clearly, the Leader of the Opposition found some cause for embarrassment in the ACTU congress because he is seeking to dissociate himself from ACTU congress decisions. Nonetheless, it is a pointless exercise because the ALP Federal Conference decisions were damning enough in themselves. Indeed, in some respects ALP policy, as decided at that conference, goes beyond ACTU policy in its damaging implications for the economy. We on this side of the House have to assume that the speech by the Leader of the Opposition was not directed to this Parliament but to the delegates of the preselection convention in the electorate of Wills. One might say that it was an anti-preselection speech rather than a pre-selection speech. 
A framework for the conduct of industrial relations requires both rights and responsibilities to be recognised on both sides. Under our conciliation and arbitration system trade unions have privileges under the law to represent their members before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and gain for them certain benefits. They have the capacity in many circumstances to put a case to the Commission for preference in employment for their members. There is an obligation, I suggest, on all parties to an industrial dispute to observe the decision of that Commission. We cannot have a system where one side is free to disobey a decision while the other side is subject to penalties. But that is the very system which the Labor Party proposes. That is the consequence of several decisions arising from the ALP Conference. The Conference committed the ALP to give trade unions some extraordinary privileges by way of immunity from laws which other people would have to obey. 
Let me deal with some of the matters on which the ALP has made decisions in that respect. The ALP platform provides for the right of" workers to 'organise in democratic trade unions'- no one objects to that- 'and to collectively bargain and to exercise the right to strike in the course of such activities immune from any pains and penalties directed against unions and unionists'. That is quite a blanket statement- 'immune from any pains and penalties directed against unions and unionists'. That is quite an extraordinarily broad statement. It means that, no matter what activity a union is engaged in, if it is engaged in during an industrial dispute unions and unionists would be exempt from any pains and penalties. 
Let me deal with another decision of the ALP Adelaide Conference. The Conference committed an ALP government to move immediately to repeal 'all penalties for strikes against arbitral decisions of the Commission or a conciliation committee and the prohibition of action by the Commission to insert or register clauses in awards or agreements excluding the rights of workers to resort to industrial action'. If the Arbitration Commission, in the exercise of its responsibility and having examined all the circumstances in a dispute, decided that trade union leaders, a section of the trade union or the trade union in toto is exercising the right to strike in an improper way, in a way that is not helpful to the settlement of the industrial dispute, or in a way that damages individual members of the community and the community at large, the Commission would have no power to insert any bans on that sort of activity. Clearly, the ALP would remove penalties against trade unions for that sort of action but it is interesting to note that the 
ALP would not remove penalties against employers for any breaches of awards. The ALP has retained the concept of employers being penalised for retaliating by engaging in a lockout. If employers retaliate by engaging in a lockout the ALP proposes that there ought to be capacity to take legal action against the employers for that action. I agree with that, but that the same sort of penalty ought to be applied to unionists and unions if they engage in illegitimate activity. 
Let me deal with other decisions arising out of that Conference. The Labor Party has also given a commitment to recognise 'the rights of unions to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way free from government and judicial interference'. That is another blanket statement. Who protects the public interest? Who adjudicates when the public is being held to ransom? Who, indeed, protects the rights of individual unionists aggrieved by union action when they want to take action against their own union officials? It would seem that under a Labor government unionists would not have the right to take action to protect their own position. 
Let me give a further example of the Labor Party's attitude to trade unions. As the Minister for Industrial Relations has pointed out, it is the policy of the ALP to 'encourage the membership of registered organisations through the provision of preference to unionists in the taking of leave and ... in their engagement and promotion and their retention in cases of retrenchment'. I point out to the House that registered organisations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act already have the right to seek before the Commission preference in employment for their members where the nature of the industry makes it desirable. Registered organisations already have the opportunity to take action before the Commission to prove their case for the desirability of preference in employment for their members. I suggest that that gives them all the rights and entitlements that they need by way of preference. 
The Labor Party would exempt unions from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. That Act prevents organisations from placing black bans and boycotts on company activities other than those which are concerned directly with disputes over wages and conditions. I hope that all honourable members on both sides of the House agree that collusive behaviour between companies designed to force a competitor out of busines should be illegal. The Trade Practices Act outlaws that sort of behaviour. Why should it be possible for unions to get away with that very same sort of behaviour? Why should we have a double standard? This Government legislated to ensure that we did not have a double standard and that the same prohibitions applied to companies, employer organisations and employee organisations. 
I invite honourable members to consider the position of small businesses faced with a black ban from a militant union. The balance of economic and industrial power in that instance is on the side of the union. The small businessman needs protection from that sort of activity. The provisions of section 45D of the Trade Practices Act provide him with that protection and it is this Government that put those provisions into the Act. The ALP, on the other hand, would exempt militant industrial gangsters who engage in such restrictive trade practices from the provisions of that Act. Responsible unions do not want to engage in such activities. They do not want to take such action against innocent people. I believe that the Government's action in putting those provisions into the Trade Practices Act has a good deal of support not only from businessmen but also from a large section of the moderate trade unionists. 
The Government has sought to consult with all groups in the industrial relations system. This is another respect in which the Government differs very greatly from the Opposition. The Government set up the National Labour Consultative Council on a statutory basis. This body includes representatives of government, employees and employers at the most senior level. Previously the Labor Government failed to call together the National Labour Advisory Council, as it was called, to bring together those three groups in a consultative process. This Government established the NLCC on a statutory basis. We required it to meet regularly- quarterly. However, the ACTU boycotted the last two meetings of that body. That gives the lie to statements by  Mr Hawke  that he wants national consultation on industrial issues. He will not come to the very body which has been set up on a statutory basis to provide an avenue for such consultation. He obviously wants a platform for grandstanding for the pre-selection for the seat of Wills or whichever seat he is thinking of standing for. The NLCC is a body set up to discuss issues in a sober and considered manner and obviously that is not what is required of the  President  of the ACTU. 
I invite honourable members to compare the Liberal-National Country Government record in setting up a framework for the orderly conduct of industrial relations in this country with the decisions arising out of the ALP Federal Conference which would set up a one-sided system that would disadvantage not only the employers and business people but also the moderate unions that do not want to engage in improper conduct and the vast majority of individual unionists who are concerned about their standard of living, who want to get on with the job and earn their wage. 
The Government has implemented secret postal ballots for all elections for management positions in federally registered organisations. It has taken steps to protect the rights of individual unionists. Let me ask why the members opposite did not take the opportunity while in government to implement some of these provisions. We have implemented provisions which have prohibited intimidatory fines by unions on their members for exercising their right to work. 
Honourable members may recall that in this House I raised a matter involving some constituents of mine who refused to obey a union directive to go on strike. They took the attitude, very reasonably, that if there is a right to strike there is also a right to work. The union executive set about trying to fine them $20 each per day for not obeying the strike directive. This Government has taken action to ensure that unions cannot take that type of intimidatory action against individual members. We have also taken action to ensure that there is better reporting of union financial affairs to the rank and file unionists. Why did not honourable members opposite legislate in that way? We have also introduced provisions to ensure that unions give adequate notice to their members of impending elections. Why did not honourable members opposite introduce those sorts of provisions if, in fact, they are really interested in the welfare of the rank and file trade unionists of Australia? The Opposition is not really interested in the welfare of the rank and file trade unionists of Australia. It is interested in industrial power groups and their influence in the Austraiian Labor Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and concerns the quota for Australian music on radio. I remind him that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal recommended in June 1977 that the quota be increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent by May of this year. Has the Government endorsed the Tribunal's recommendation of a 30 per cent Australian quota? Was the matter to be further considered by the Tribunal immediately following the hearings in June of this year into the renewal of the Melbourne television licences? What progress has the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal made in these deliberations? Can the Minister inform the House what considerations, if any, have delayed the Tribunal in implementing its recommendations, which gave such hope to the Australian music and recording industries? 
-The House is debating the Migration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 which introduces certain charges to recover some administrative costs currently being incurred by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The charges are as follows: For the processing of an application for the grant of a further temporary entry permit, $20; for the processing of an application for change of status, that is, from a temporary entrant to a permanent resident, $50- and I will mention that charge in particular later; for the processing of an application for the grant of a return endorsement, $20, or $30 at overseas posts; for conducting English language tests at overseas posts, $25; for the processing of an application for evidence of resident status, $20; for obtaining information by way of cables initiated by applicants or clients, $15; and, finally, the assessment of a person's overseas professional or technical qualifications, $20. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said that such charges were not universal practice, but he is only partly right in saying that because, in fact, a number of countries do levy a number of charges for such services. There are some differences. In many cases the services, procedures and types of documentation required by Australia are different from those applying in a number of other countries. Certainly the United Kingdom and the United States of America have adopted the practice of trying to recoup costs that it is possible to identify as being directly associated with a request from a person using the services of their immigration offices. That expresses itself in charges for the obtaining of information particularly through cables, because the cost of obtaining information by way of cables can be identified. The United States charges $20 for immigrant visas. One of the items for which a charge will be levied, namely, the processing of an application for the grant of a return endorsement, is an Australian procedure generally not duplicated overseas, although I cannot speak for all countries. So one can say that a charge is not levied for that service overseas because, in a sense, it is a peculiarly Australian procedure. 
A couple of matters that cause me concern and which have been brought to my notice involve the use of departmental services. Firstly, I refer to the very common experience that we have all had of people in Australia on temporary visas seeking to have those temporary visas converted to permanent resident status. I therefore think it is very appropriate to have a charge for the processing of an application for change of status from temporary entrant to permanent resident, to some degree to act as a disincentive to those people who are merely trying on the Department, as it were. We have all had this type of experience. People come into the country knowing full well that they have only a temporary visa and that they are here only for a specified number of months for tourist purposes or shortterm employment purposes, for specific reasons for study purposes, or whatever. Then, before, or even after the expiry of that temporary visa they seek to have their status converted to that of a permanent resident. I am sure that we have all had the experience of people trying out various members of parliament after they have been unsuccessful with the Department. One person who had been unsuccessful with the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  thought that his problem was that he had gone to a member of the Opposition so he then thought that he would try out a member of the Government. He came across to the other side of Melbourne to see me but, of course, he was unsuccessful with me as well. 
I think that some sort of disincentive needs to be put into the system in that respect to discourage people from doing the rounds of departmental offices, of Australian posts overseas and of members of parliament, to make it clear to them that there is something involved and that they really ought to think about it before putting in their application. I think for that reason that this legislation is a very good step. Those who do have genuine reasons for wanting to stay in Australia as permanent residents will be encouraged to think about why they are putting in their application. I think that quite apart from any revenue that is collected- and frankly I hope that not much revenue is collected from this charge- this legislation will free departmental officers from what must be an enormous burden, processing bits of paper with no result coming out the other end. So that is one matter of concern to me that I hope this new system of charges will help to correct. 
Another matter that occurs to me is that in many respects there are very few incentives for people to become Australian citizens. While there may be a very small incentive contained in this Bill, the fact that the charges by and large fall on people who are not Australian citizens, may just be one extra factor- I will not make much of it- which will encourage people to think about the advantages of taking out Australian citizenship. By and large, in our system we do not have anything that people can recognise as a substantial inducement to taking out Australian citizenship. Of course the situation differs for people who do not have a country to go to. Refugees who are quite stateless are very anxious to take out Australian citizenship. But for people who are still held in good repute by their home countries overseas, are entitled to return there and have passports issued by their home countries, there are quite often few incentives to encourage them to take out citizenship in Australia unless, of course they are particularly interested in any public employment or in taking any public office in Australia that would require their taking out Australian citizenship. So for that reason I hope that the amendments contained in this Bill will act as some small additional incentive to get people to think about taking out Australian citizenship. 
The Bill before us also makes some other technical amendments which I do not think anyone would disagree with. Clause 3 of the Bill adds the Department of Trade and Resources and the Department of Foreign Affairs to those departments containing officers whom the Minister may appoint as authorised officers under the Act. This will enable people in overseas posts to take on certain functions under the Act. When officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs are not present. 
I commend the Bill to the House. Whilst some of the aspects may be of concern to some people, I believe that there are many positive aspects which the honourable member for Maribyrnong, as spokesman for the Opposition, has not emphasised. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The front page of the  Diamond Valley News  of last Tuesday, 9 October reveals that yet another crisis is afflicting the Eltham Shire Council. Under the headline 'Engineer sacked- uproar as Council's axe falls' we read that after two hour's debate, Eltham Council voted five to three to sack the Shire Engineer  Mr John  McDonald, who has been in the employ of the Council for 27 years. Normally I do not indulge in public comment on municipal affairs, preferring to leave the elected councillors to resolve matters among themselves and accept complete responsibility for their actions. However, recently the Council has indulged in some grandstanding on matters of Federal Government responsibility and so I feel free to comment. While municipal administration goes to pot, Eltham Council seems to have Council time and ratepayers' funds to spend on matters which are not related to issues on which the councillors were elected. For example, Eltham Council has proposed spending $1,300 on signs to be erected in the municipality which read 'Eltham is a Nuclear Free Zone'. How extraordinary! 
My colleague, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  has already attacked this proposal in the local Press. He has rightly pointed out that this year the Federal 
Government has given Eltham a grant of $410,000 to help with municipal expenditure and keep rates down. This expenditure is untied because we believe that local people should determine local needs and priorities. But if we find that municipal councillors are going to spend the money on publicising their views on matters of national policy for which they have no mandate, this Parliament might have to think of putting strings on the federal grants. 
It was fascinating to read in last week's  Diamond Valley News  that the councillor who has advocated this irrelevant expenditure also urged a larger increase in rates than the council agreed to. Councillor Jean Downing, who incidentally stood as the Australian Labor Party candidate for the federal seat of Diamond Valley at the last federal election, and more recently as the ALP candidate for the State seat of Doncaster, has publicly advocated a rate increase this year of at least 13 te per cent rather than the 10 per cent which has been decided. The mind boggles at what irrelevant ALP propaganda she would choose to spend the money on. Councillor Downing is reported as justifying the signs by saying: 'I don't want a repeat of Hiroshima in the shire of Eltham'. Really! As if such signs themselves would keep the bombs away. As one local resident said in a letter to the Press, it would be equally valid to erect notices proclaiming that Eltham is a polar bear free zone'. This correspondent asks: To what do we give credit- the vigilance of the Shire Ranger or the general unavailability of polar bears in the Eltham region? 
Another matter the Council has found time to consider is the relative merit of various types of beer. It has written to the honourable member for Diamond Valley and to me suggesting changes to excise duty on beer. Councillors are perfectly entitled to their views on such matters and I would be delighted if individually they would take the trouble to make representations on them to me, but they have no business taking up Council time and municipal administrative effort on such matters outside the Council's responsibilities, I mentioned these matters because I think they are part of an explanation of the problems the shire is experiencing. Within the last few years we have seen petty personal warfare disrupt Council meetings; we have seen the Shire's chief administrator sacked; we have seen a deficit of about $500,000 develop, and now we see a long-standing servant of the Shire, the Engineer, being dismissed. If the Council spent more time discussing municipal affairs some of these problems may not have developed. 
A list of nine reasons have been produced for sacking the Shire Engineer. Most of them relate to allegations of failing to carry out Council directions and failure to provide information. I am not in a position to judge the accuracy of any of the specific allegations, but even if they are true they are themselves a condemnation of the Council itself. If the councillors had spent their time scrutinising expenditure proposals and developmental proposals and looking after ratepayers ' interests, the complaints listed are not the sorts of problems that would have arisen. It seems to me to be quite possible that the engineer just had to get on with his work as best he could while some councillors carried on with all manner of irrelevant rubbish. If councillors do not stop wasting the Council's time and administrative efforts, the State Minister for Local Government ought to step in. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It concerns the family reunions of East Timorese in Australia. Can the Minister inform the House what progress is being made with the reunions of families between East Timor and Australia? Does the Minister recall that some months ago preliminary approval was given for about 600 people to come from East Timor to Australia to be reunited with their families? Has this process slowed down in recent months? Can the Minister say when the program will be completed? 
I wish to refer to the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. As a general observation, let me say that I believe that, our immigration program is administered very fairly by a Minister who looks at cases impartially and tries to do the best he can for all the people who seek to bring in friends and relatives from overseas. However, I want to draw attention to a particular matter which is causing justifiable concern to a small but in many respects, significant community in Melbourne. I refer to the East Timorese community there. I suppose this applies to the East Timorese community throughout Australia. I have had dealings only with the East Timorese community in- Melbourne. Honourable members will recall that late in 1975 about 3,000 East Timorese were evacuated from their country during and after the conflict there. Since then a number of them have nominated relatives still in East Timor to come to Australia. I think the total estimated by the community is nominations in respect of 2,668 people who were in East Timor. The nominations of approximately 600 people were approved by the Department under the slightly expanded family reunion guidelines. As far as the Australian authorities were concerned, those people were eligible to come to Australia. 
Last Thursday, I asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  what progress had been made in bringing those 600 people to Australia. He reported that to date 285 of those 600 people had come to Australia under the family reunion program and that an additional 85 people outside that group of 600 people had been reunited with their families under normal migration arrangements. The program of reuniting families has proceeded much more slowly than we would all want. Indeed, there were expectations last year that those 600 people would be reunited with their families by Christmas of last year. I wish to refer to one or two documents which indicate the sort of expectations which were current at that time. I refer to an article in the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 1 November 1978 which states: 
A spokesman for the Minister for Immigration,  Mr MacKellar,  said there had been 'some delays in arranging the mechanics' of the visit. 
That is, a visit of an Australian immigration team to Indonesia. The article continues: 
But we will expect the Timorese to be reunited by Christmas'. 
The article also states: 
Action for World Development have published a 14-page report on the Timorese problem which claims that Indonesia was taking action to halt the migration. 
The Indonesian Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Nurmathias,  has, however, denied the report. 
It is entirely for the families concerned to decide whether they want to stay in Australia or return to East Timor. 
Likewise, it is up to those now in East Timor to decide whether they wish to join their families in Australia, ' he said. 
The spokesman for  Mr MacKellar  said that about 600 Timorese were expected to arrive here by Christmas. 
Further, the Indonesian Ambassador to Australia was reported in an Indonesian newsletter late last year as saying that his Government did not object to anyone leaving Timor who wanted to, providing he went through the normal immigration procedure. Just in terms of the sorts of statements that were made late last year, East Timorese people in Australia had reasonable expectations that they would be reunited with their relatives by Christmas of last year. We all know that those expectations were not met. They were not met, apparently, because of difficulties of the Australian immigration team getting into East Timor to carry out interviews, to do the normal processing which is required of anyone who wants to come to Australia, and because various difficulties were put in the way of people wishing to come out of East Timor. I led a delegation to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in December of last year to discuss the problems that appeared to be arising at that stage in the final approvals. That delegation comprised representatives of the East Timorese community and also of the Catholic clergy in 
Melbourne who had been active in assisting the community in Melbourne. Reports arose out of a subsequent Press conference which the Minister gave following meetings that he had with  Dr Mochtar,  the Indonesian Foreign Minister. The Age of 18 December 1978 stated: 
At a Press conference on Friday,  Mr Peacock  indicated that Indonesia had agreed not to stand in the way of the 600 or so East Timorese eligible to come here under the Government's family reunion guidelines. 

 Mr Peacock said it was hoped a batch of about 100 could be brought to Australia in time for Christmas. 

 Dr Mochtar said the Indonesian Government would be trying hard to help those eligible to get to Australia. 
Once again, expectations were raised by the. statements that were made at that time. Correspondence that I received subsequently from the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, expressed expectations that the program of reuniting families would take place expeditiously. The Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs in a letter to me dated 15 January stated:  . . that the aim would be for them to rejoin their families and relatives in Australia this year. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in a letter dated 3 April 1 979 wrote: 
An Australian migration team travelled to Timor in December 1978 to process applications from the first group of persons in the eligible categories. On 13 and 14 January a total of 99 persons arrived in Australia. 
I might add that I welcomed to Tullamarine airport the group of 27 East Timorese who came from Darwin through to Melbourne. The letter continued: 
The remaining group of approximately 500 persons will be processed for entry to Australia under normal Indonesian and Australian migration procedures. While it has taken some considerable time for the first families to be reunited with their relatives in Australia, I am hopeful that the remaining groups, if able to satisfactorily complete migration requirements, will be able to join their families here in the near future. 
Since that time there has been a trickle of people arriving. Those people have come from East Timor to Jakarta and in many cases have arrived on the doorstep of the Australian Embassy, made themselves known, have been processed at that point and then brought on to Australia. There have been reports of money changing hands in East Timor, not just for the cost of air fares from East Timor to Jakarta but apparently to pay various officials for the privilege of being able to get exit visas from Indonesia. Those sorts of reports, of course, are always difficult to confirm but they are too common to ignore. The situation that presently faces us is that 285 people out of 600 who were initially given pre.liminary approval by the Australian Govern^ ment, have come to Australia. The expectations that were given were that the 600 people would come out during this year, but in recent weeksindeed in recent months- that trickle of people from East Timor to Australia via Jakarta has completely stopped. 
One wonders what could have happened with respect to the flow of people from East Timor. It appears that Indonesian authorities are making it extremely difficult for people to leave and they are not giving them approval to rejoin their families despite all the assurances that were given by  Dr Mochtar  and other Indonesian spokesmen in the past. I feel that I have some responsibility in this matter because earlier this year when the first group came to Australia I cautioned members of the East Timorese community in Melbourne not to make vigorous statements attacking any Indonesian authorities. I said to them: 'While some people are coming out let us try to encourage that flow and not cause the Indonesian authorities to stop the flow of people from East Timor because of antagonistic statements made here in Australia. ' I must say in all fairness to them that they observed that advice. Despite that silence we find that the flow has been cut off. It is most reprehensible that the Indonesian authorities should take this action to thwart the very real desires of people to be reunited with their families. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The House is debating a BUI to establish the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. Clause 5 of the Bill sets out the objectives of the establishment of the Institute. I think it is worthwhile repeating at this stage just what those objectives are. Clause 5 reads: 
to develop among the members of the Australian community- 
an awareness of the diverse cultures within that community that have arisen as a result of the migration of people to Australia; and 
an appreciation of the contributions of those cultures to the enrichment of that community; 
to promote tolerance, understanding, harmonious relations and mutual esteem among the different cultural groups and ethnic communities in Australia; 
to promote a cohesive Australian society by assisting members of the Australian community to share with one another their diverse cultures within the legal and political structures of that society; and 
to assist in promoting an environment that alfords the members of the different cultural groups and ethnic communities in Australia the opportunity to participate fully in Australian society and achieve their own potential. 
I believe that those objectives are laudable and should be supported by the Australian community. The spokesman on immigration for the Opposition, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  made a number of criticisms. Whilst I generally take the view that he does try to conduct debates on the matter of immigration and ethnic affairs in a relatively bipartisan manner, I felt that some of his criticisms were nit picking- if I can describe them as suchand really did not get to the substance of the Bill. For example, early in his remarks he made a suggestion that this was a body just to study the arts and crafts of our society. I suggest that it is a rather more substantial body and one which will really seek to look at questions of the real content of ethnic communities in Australia, the contribution that they are making to Australian society, the history of their development and so on. 
I noted with interest a number of the remarks which he made with respect to the amendment which he moved on behalf of the Opposition. Firstly, the amendment proposes that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to establish the Institute as an independent statutory authority responsible to the Parliament. The normal procedure with statutory authorities that this Parliament establishes is that they report to the Parliament in the normal way, through the Minister responsible, in the form of an annual report. The Minister has to provide information and respond to questions in the Parliament on behalf of statutory authorities that are within his general area of portfolio responsibilities. So there is nothing unusual about the way in which this particular statutory authority is being established by this Parliament. 
The second part of the amendment suggests that the Institute should have a more positive responsibility for the maintenance of cultural identities and traditions and the encouragement of multiculturalism. Clause S of the Bill, which sets out the objects of the establishment of the Institute, achieves that aim. I would suggest that what the spokesman for the Opposition is really debating is a question of the balance that one is trying to achieve in the wording in setting out those aims. The balance that the spokesman for the Opposition seems to be seeking to achieve is one that places an emphasis on the independence of the cultural identities and traditions, whereas the Bill sets out to make the point, in a rather deliberate fashion, that the independent cultural traditions of various ethnic groups have great value, that they are important, and that they must be promoted, and there is an emphasis on ensuring that those conditions contribute to the total Australian community. That is something that we ought to try to achieve. 
I have discussed the issue of multiculturalism with people in my electorate and with various groups and, as I understand it, the one fear that does seem to be expressed by a number of people is that the concept of multiculturalism implies some sort of separate development of various groups, that we would have separate groups in our society each adhering to a different language and respecting different cultural traditions without really coming to grips with each other, and promoting tolerance and understanding between the various ethnic groups in the Australian community. That fear has been expressed amongst Australian born people and people who have come more recently from other countries. It is not a fear that I share, but I think that we have to make clear in any legislation which we put down seeking to establish an institute of multicultural affairs that one of the principal objectives is to promote that tolerance, that understanding and that respect between various groups and ensure that all groups, from the standpoint of their own cultural traditions, are making a contribution to a unified Australian community- a diverse community; one which profits from diversity; one which has more colour and life because of that cultural diversity; but one which, nonetheless, is more cohesive and unified as a complete Australian community. Therefore, I believe that the wording which the Government has placed in the Bill strikes the right balance and meets the sorts of objections that are likely to be put up by people who have some fear of this concept of multiculturalism. 
The amendment put forward by the Opposition then states that the Bill ought to be redrafted in order to elaborate the functions of the Institute to include research into the history and phenomenon of immigration to Australia and issues related to the development of ethnic groups in Australia and their diverse cultures. It further states that the Institute ought to be enabled to conduct research into and foster community sensitivity for racial groups not the subject of study by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies while including the latter in the ambit of multicultural affairs. I am really not quite sure what the Opposition is seeking to achieve by putting forward those suggestions. Clause 6 of the Bill already states the primary functions of the Institute. One of those functions is to promote the objects in clause 5 by commissioning and conducting research and studies; I emphasise the words 'commissioning and conducting research and studies. That is a very open statement; it is a very open brief. The Institute is therefore able to commission and conduct research and studies over a broad range of matters relevant to the responsibilities of the Institute. 
I am not quite sure why the Opposition would seek, in a sense, to limit the types of research which the Institute should be encouraging by trying to define that rather more closely. I would have felt that there was greater advantage in ensuring that its brief was as wide as possible in that respect, because from time to time there may arise issues which we cannot anticipate at this stage, to which would require further study and research, and to which the Institute ought to direct its attention. 
The Opposition's amendment also suggests that the Bill should ensure the possibility of entering into contractual relationships with other community-based organisations engaged in activities in accord with the objectives of the Institute. As I see it that is also unnecessary because, after all, the Institute is a body corporate, it is a legal entity, it can sue and be sued, and it does have the power to enter into contractual arrangements with other legal entities. So I do not see any difficulty in that respect'. The honourable member for Maribyrnong, as I heard him, also suggested that the Institute should conduct some of its duties in accordance with the policies of the Commonwealth Government. Clause 18(3) of the Bill says that the Institute shall have regard to such policies of the Government as are communicated in writing. I emphasise the words shall have regard to'. I think that is a broader provision than was suggested by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. The Institute has to have regard to the policies of the Government, but is not required specifically to follow every item in accordance with the policies of the government of the day. It is relevant and proper that in its activities it should have regard to the policies of the Government because, after all, one thing that we hope will come out of the Institute is a study of the effects and the impact of the policies of the Government on the development of multiculturalism in Australia. 
I want to deal with a few of the sorts of fears that have come up about this concept of multiculturalism. This is a term which is rather fashionable in Australia at present. I use the term myself. But I think we have to be careful not to become carried away with the mere fashionableness of it. In fact, I noticed another piece of jargon which was used by the honourable member for Maribyrnong when he referred to a polyethnic society. I have heard that word used on a few occasions. It is interesting how we seek to find various words to use in this context. The history of Australian migration has been in a sense a history of trying to find words which are acceptable and which do not offend people. In the early days when migrants were often referred to as 'reffos' it was felt that the term 'new Australians' was a more appropriate term to use. Once the new Australians had been here for IS, 20 or 25 years, apparently some of them said that they did not quite like the term 'new Australian'. We have tried to find other words. Some people refer to migrants now as 'ethnics' and in some circles that also is greeted with horror. We find that we are searching for words like polyethnicity, and so on, to describe developments in the Australian community. 
We have to be a little bit careful about the way in which we take up some of the jargon. What we are really talking about is the fact that there are in Australia a number of people who have ecmt here from more than 100 countries- three and half million people to be fairly exact-since the Second World War. Forty per cent of .hose people have come from the United Kingdom and the rest from more than 100 countries. They have all made a contribution to the development of the Australian community. In my view they have added to the degree of tolerance within the Australian community. 
In the course of my lifetime, and I am  by  means the oldest member of this Parliament 1 have noticed a change in the attitude of Australians to other cultural traditions. Fifteen or twenty years ago we tended to take the attitude that all migrants to Australia ought to become just like us and and should learn to like the footie, the beer, the meat pie, et cetera. I am exaggerating, of course, but that attitude was apparent. At present, an increasing number of Australians are taking to looking at soccer, and there is no doubt that it is a better football game. An increasing number of Australians are enjoying the sorts of diverse experiences which are now available in our country as a result of the great contribution that has been made by many people from many different lands. Honourable members will see it in the variety of restaurants that are available, the fashions and architectural designs. In countless ways the great migration programs which have taken place in Australia since the Second World War have touched upon our every day lives. That has been to the advantage of Australia. 
Regrettably, some instances have also occurred of particular migrant communities having within their ranks people who have sought to promote old divisions. I will not mention them because I do not want to specify certain migrant communities. That has happened to some degree. We need to get across to people the impression that we want them, in their communities, to make the best contribution they can to the wider Australian community, by bringing in all of those elements which are desirable, by educating natural born Australians and people who come from other countries in their cultural tradtion, but also we want them to leave behind the enmities from which they have tried to escape in many cases. I think it is to the credit of this Government that it legislated, for example, to prevent recruiting for overseas armies in Australia. I think that is useful not only in itself, but also as a declaration by this Parliament that we do not want people who are now part of the Australian community contributing to the maintenance of divisions within their home countries. 
It is with great pleasure that I rise to support this Bill. I believe that the Opposition's amendments are quite unnecessary. I believe that the Institute ought to be established in the manner proposed by the Government in this Bill. I am sure that it will make a contribution to the development of a richer, more diverse but more coherent Australian community. 
-On Thursday and Friday, 1 and 2 November 1979, the 
Australian Army conducted a war surgery seminar at the School of Army Health in Healesville, Victoria, which is in my electorate. This seminar was the culmination of many months of effort by working parties of specialist surgeons from all States of Australia. The aim was to formulate Australian Army policy for emergency surgery in the field. I briefly draw the attention of the House to this seminar because it highlights one of the many aspects ofthe Defence forces of our country which do not often surface in debate in this place, or indeed in debate conducted by the commentators on defence policy in Australia. We tend to concentrate on major defence purchase items such as the tactical fighter force or the possibility of a replacement for our aircraft carrier. Matters which concern the ability of our Defence Forces to function and to be resupplied and sustained are not often mentioned. 
I think this matter is worth mentioning because the seminar was the product of many months of work on a very important subject. The aim was to rewrite the manual on field surgery, which badly needed doing. In fact, until this stage the Australian Army has been using the manual on field surgery of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces, a manual which was not particularly relevant to Australian conditions. The background to the seminar is that some months ago many surgeons throughout Australia were approached by the Director of Medical Services of the Army, Brigadier James, and invited to participate in a series of working parties leading up to the seminar. I mention that almost all of the surgeons in academia and in private practice who were invited to participate accepted the invitation. They participated in the working parties and in the seminar at no cost to the taxpayer. They donated their services. In a profession which is often attacked- and I have indulged in some criticism of the medical profession myself- I think that is a contribution which ought to be noted by this House. In fact, this House ought to query why it does not vote funds for that sort of purpose. 
Nonetheless, a number of leading surgeons donated their services for this exercise. Some 44 civilians took part in the working parties and in the seminar, and 38 military personnel, comprising regular Army and reserve Army personnel, also took part. As I have mentioned, the civilian personnel paid their own transport costs to Healesville from wherever they came in Australia. Many of them stayed in private accommodation and paid their own expenses. No doubt they were attracted, at least in part, by the importance of the seminar and the benefits they could obtain from discussions with their professional colleagues. Nonetheless, we ought to give some acknowledgment to the contribution they have made. 
One of the important matters that became obvious to me- I attended for a short while at the School of Army Health during the two-day seminar- was the need for standardisation of medical procedures in the field. One of the problems that can arise with respect to medical services, and surgical services in particular, is that if a soldier is wounded in the field he may be transferred through several different field hospitals and base hospitals before being returned to Australia for final treatment. In those circumstances, it is most necessary that he be treated in the same way at each stage. When he comes to a base hospital after having emergency surgery in the field, the surgeon at the base hospital ought to know the procedures that have been used in the field so that he can conduct the next stage of the necessary surgical procedures. It is for that reason that a standard manual is necessary for the armed services. It is all very well for individual surgeons to have their pet methods and their particular specialities in the way of treatment. When people are being treated under such circumstances there needs to be knowledge throughout the medical profession as to how field surgery will be performed. I think this Parliament owes a debt to the surgeons who have contributed to this seminar. 
I remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the concern felt by many Australians at Australia's recent support for the United Nations General Assembly decision to accept the credentials of the delegation from the Pol Pot administration in Kampuchea. Is the Minister aware that many Australians were disappointed at Australia's failure to support the Indian initiative, that is, that the Kampuchean seat at the United Nations be left vacant for the time being? Has his attention been drawn to the reply given by  Senator Carrick  in the Senate yesterday, indicating that the Government is keeping the recognition question under close and continuing review? Can the Minister confirm the accuracy of reports in this morning's Press, namely, that the Australian Government is considering withdrawing its recognition of the Pol Pot administration? 
